Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 9, 2019 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

Recommended Action
A.

Expense Policy Amendment

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee that the Board of Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of
Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual (Expense Policy) regarding the
attendance or participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited
guest in a local, transit-related event when the Director is unable to attend the
event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2
– Strong & Ethical Leadership.
III.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - May 14, 2019
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bobby Burrell – Body Mechanic – 22 years
Kurt J. Reder – Light Rail Maintenance Supervisor – 35 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 16, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2018 CAFR and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2018 as prepared by staff and
audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
GM CORE AND TASK GOALS MET
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
B.

2019 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2019 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal
laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:




Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #2 – Strong Financial Management



XII.

Task Goal #1 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
Task Goal #2 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods

Recommended Action
C.

Approval of the Denver Human Services Contract for LiVE Program

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to execute a contract to validate income and provide
customer service to help manage LiVE Program eligibility applications through the
State PEAK software system for an amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The
contract is for five (5) years of application processing and customer service.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
D.

Contract Award for the Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a professional services
contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the contractor for assistance
in the preparation of the Transportation Transformation (T2) Comprehensive (Comp)
Plan for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511. Funding for this contract is included
in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the T2 Comp Plan.
This action addresses four of the General Manager’s goals for 2019:

E.



Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods



Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability



Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services



Core Goal #3 - Strong Financial Management
Revised Governance Manual

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the revised RTD Board of Directors
Governance Manual (Governance Manual), as presented to the Finance,
Administration, & Audit Committee.
The Chair further recommends that, should additional changes be made going
forward to any of the documents contained as appendices to the Governance
Manual, which changes would necessitate non-substantive administrative or
ministerial changes to the Manual itself, Board Office staff be permitted to
incorporate those corresponding changes to the Governance Manual without the
need for further Board approval.

This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2
– Strong & Ethical Leadership.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.2.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 2, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Director, District H

GM

Date:

May 2, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Expense Policy Amendment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual
(Expense Policy) regarding the attendance or participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or
invited guest in a local, transit-related event when the Director is unable to attend the event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical
Leadership.
BACKGROUND
Current Board policy permits a spouse or significant other or other invited guest to accompany a Director
who is attending a local, transit-related event.
DISCUSSION
The proposed amendment to the Expense Policy clarifies the policy regarding the attendance or
participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited guest in a local, transit-related event
when the Director is unable to attend the event.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the adoption of the amendment to the Expense Policy.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the proposed amendment to the Expense Policy.
2. To reject the amendment. This is not the preferred alternative.

ATTACHMENTS:


2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.2.A

Packet Pg. 6

1.2.A.A

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Board of Directors Office

RTD BOARD OF
DIRECTORS EXPENSE
POLICY AND
PROCEDURES MANUAL

Revised 5/14/2019

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

1 of 16

Packet Pg. 7

1.2.A.A

TABLE OF CONTENTS

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.0. General Policy.................................................................................................................. 3
2.0. Reimbursable Expenses................................................................................................. 5
3.0. Travel Request Process................................................................................................. 7
3.1. Reservations ................................................................................................................ 7
3.2. Travel Advance........................................................................................................... 7
4.0. Travel Arrangements ..................................................................................................... 8
4.1. Transportation............................................................................................................. 8
4.1.1. Airlines ................................................................................................................. 8
4.1.2. Ground Transportation ..................................................................................... 8
4.1.3. Car Rental............................................................................................................ 9
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles .............................................................................................. 9
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement................................................................................. 10
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations) ........................................................................ 10
4.3. Meals ......................................................................................................................... 10
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses ......................................................................................... 11
4.5. In State Travel .......................................................................................................... 11
5.0. Business Communications ........................................................................................ 11
6.0. Publications .................................................................................................................... 12
7.0. Conference Registrations ........................................................................................... 12
7.1. Local Conferences/Seminars ................................................................................. 13
7.2. Out of Town Conferences ..................................................................................... 13
8.0. Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions ............................................ 13
9.0. Transit Related Community Events .......................................................................... 14
10.0.
Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events .............................. 14
11.0.
Travel Insurance ....................................................................................................... 14
12.0.
Expense Reports....................................................................................................... 14
12.1. Travel Expense Reports .......................................................................................... 14
12.2. Local Expense Reports ............................................................................................ 15
12.3. Expense Records ...................................................................................................... 15
13.0.
Definitions .................................................................................................................. 18

2 of 16

Packet Pg. 8

1.2.A.A

The Regional Transportation District Act, specifically in sections 32-9-114 (d) and
32-9-117, establishes the authority for reimbursement of necessary expenses
pertaining to the activities of the District.
General Policy
Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.0.

Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District for reasonable expenses
incurred that are necessary to the transaction of official District business. Each
Director must, at all times, exercise sound judgment when incurring and submitting
such expenses, in keeping within the standards and proprieties of an agency
supported by public tax dollars.
Each Director’s annual budget is as follows:
Travel Expense and
Conferences Annually
$6000.00

Local Expense Annually

IT Expenses Annually

$4000.00

1680.00

At the discretion of the Chair, the Board Office may transfer monies between a
Director’s Travel and Local budget accounts to cover expenses incurred or anticipated
to be incurred by the Director. IT expenses eligible for reimbursement are outlined in
Section 5.0, Business Communications. Directors may not transfer monies from their
IT expense budgets to either Local or Travel budgets. A Director may not transfer
expense monies to another Director. The Chair may, at his or her discretion, utilize
monies from the Chair’s discretionary funds to pay for another Director’s travel or
local expenses.
The Board of Directors may choose to periodically limit by way of resolution the
amount annually allocated to the Directors’ expense accounts as the economy and
the fiscal sustainability of the District dictate.
The Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District has taken formal action
to delegate authorization for travel necessary to the transaction of official business
as follows:
1. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, business travel expenses
for Directors to consult with Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA), other federal agencies, or the Congressional
Delegation in Washington, D.C., on matters pertaining to RTD activities.
2. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, conference travel
expenses for Directors to attend transit industry related conferences.
3. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, training travel expenses
for Directors to attend educational workshops.
4. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, business travel expenses
for Directors to visit other transit properties.
5. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, transit related local travel
and related expenses.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

3 of 16

Packet Pg. 9

1.2.A.A

The Chair may choose to deny a request from a Director for travel not covered by
items 1-6 above, refer the request to the Executive Committee, or both. The Chair
may refer any travel request to the Executive Committee without the Chair’s prior
determination on the request.
A Director whose request for travel has been denied by the Chair or the Executive
Committee may appeal for reconsideration of the denial by the full Board. Unless the
travel request is subsequently approved, the Board Office cannot make further travel
arrangements related to the denied trip. A Director is not eligible for reimbursement
for the cost of any unapproved travel costs or arrangements booked by the Director.
The Chair must deny the travel request of any Director who has expended or will
have expended prior to the trip all monies from the Director’s travel budget, unless
the Chair elects to pay for the Director’s trip expenses using the Chair’s discretionary
funds.
The Board of Directors may not incur expenses to any RTD departmental (except
Board Office) or non-departmental budget code. All incurred travel related-expenses
eligible for reimbursement by a Director must be charged to the Director’s travel
Budget.
For any travel in the last three months of service of a Director’s term, the District
cannot reimburse expenses for transit conferences to Directors who have not met
the statutory requirements to be placed on the ballot for re-election or who are term
limited. Special travel requests by these Directors to complete special projects or
those who have been approved to speak on behalf of the agency can be reviewed
for approval by the full Board, within budget limitations.
A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary event expenses
incurred by the Director and a spouse, significant other, or guest if the event is a
local, transit-related event sponsored by RTD. The expenses of the Director and the
Director’s spouse, significant other, or invited guest, are paid from the Director’s
local expense fund. (Resolution 002, Series of 2019).
Directors serve as ambassadors for the entire agency and its mission when attending
local, transit-related events.
A Director is not authorized to delegate that
ambassadorial duty to a spouse or significant other or other invited guest if the
Director is unable to attend such events personally. As such, it is appropriate for any
such other person to refrain from attending an event in a Director’s stead.
While the Colorado Independent Ethics Commission has ruled that Article XXIX of
the State Constitution (also referred to as Amendment 41) pertaining to ethics in
government does not specifically apply to the RTD Board, the recommendation from
RTD’s General Counsel is for Directors to refrain from accepting anything of greater
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

4 of 16

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

6. The allowable expenses contained in this document include air travel, food,
lodging, business communications, gratuities, and other such reimbursable
expenses detailed in Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.

than nominal value in the exercise of their official duties. A Director who attends,
as a function of his or her official duties, a meal or event for which the expected
value of attendance exceeds $50.00 is responsible for the cost of the Director’s
attendance. Directors may submit itemized receipts for reimbursement, or the Board
Office can make arrangements prior to the meal or event and charge the cost to the
Director’s local expenses.
2.0.

Reimbursable Expenses

To protect the interest of the District and to provide guidelines for the Directors to
follow, the following provisions govern allowances for out of town and local business
related expenses within established budget limits. Only business expenses may be
claimed. The purchase of alcohol is not reimbursable and should not be reflected on
submitted receipts.
In order to be eligible for reimbursement for an ordinary and necessary RTD business
related expense, the Director must submit a proper itemized receipt showing the cost,
time, date, business purpose, and the name and title of any qualifying attendee, if
applicable. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in one’s field
of trade, business or profession. Examples of ordinary and necessary local expenses
include mileage reimbursement, conference or seminar registration fees, parking,
business meeting expenses, and attendance at transit-related or community events
that are considered a necessary part of conducting District business. Political
meetings partisan conferences or political group activities cannot be covered as an
RTD expense.
In order to be reimbursed for meals and event expenses, Directors must submit an
itemized receipt. If meetings between Directors and either employees or business
contacts take place outside of the District office, the meal costs are equally divided
among the Directors attending and charged to each Director’s local expense account
accordingly. Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for meals or event fees
incurred by spouses, significant others, or guests except as described in Section 1.0,
General Policy.
In the event that RTD purchases a table for an event for which not all seats are
claimed by Directors and staff, a Director may request additional seats on a firstcome, first-served basis and may invite a guest at no cost to the Director’s local
expense account.
Expenses for meals submitted without a proper itemized receipt and documentation
of time, place and purpose will only be reimbursed $10.00 at the discretion of the
Chair.
Board or Committee Meetings are typically arranged at the convenience of Directors
to coincide with meal times and are considered a District expense. If meetings
between Directors and employees or business contacts take place outside of the
District offices, the meal cost will be equally divided among the Directors attending
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

5 of 16

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.2.A.A

1.2.A.A

Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for expenses, such as meals, flights,
hotels, etc., whether local or out-of-District, for any non-RTD transit-related business.
This includes expenses incurred by spouses, significant others, guests, or
dependents. In the event that a Director departs from an out-of-district event or
conference earlier than anticipated or stays longer than originally scheduled through
the Board Office, the Director cannot be reimbursed for meals or lodging fees for the
day or days of the early departure or late stay. For any additional airline fees or
charges incurred as the result of a flight change due to an early departure or late
stay, the Director must bear the cost as a personal expense.
The following expense categories may be claimed as a necessary part of
conducting District business:
 Registration fees (with approval and receipt only)
 Air transportation
 Ground transportation and tolls
 Mileage for personal vehicles
 Parking fees
 Lodging and travel internet expenses
 Personal meals for out-of-town travel or approved local conferences, as
outlined in section 4
 Business meeting expenses, both local and travel
 Gratuities – housekeeping, transportation and restaurant with receipts
 Cell phone fees associated with travel
 Rental car
 Postage for District business only
 Toner cartridges
 Other expenses identified for the benefit of the District.
The following expenses are not authorized for reimbursement unless approved by the
Chair:
 Personal expenses such as personal hygiene items, magazines, in-room
movies, in-flight movies, pre boarding fees, laundry, raincoats, childcare,
pet care, etc.
 Travel insurance (note:
All Directors receive Travel and Accident
Insurance, which covers the Director while traveling on district business.
 Alcohol (Reference RTD Drug and Alcohol policy)
 Expenses that are of unusual nature
The Chair has discretion in approving Director expenses. If requested expenses do
not fall within the expense guidelines, the Chair must seek advice and
recommendations from the Executive Committee.
The Chair may authorize Director travel to locations for the purpose of coordinating
with governmental agencies, consultants, contractors, or for participation in
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

6 of 16

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

and charged to their local expense accounts accordingly. In order to be reimbursed
for these meal costs, Directors must provide an itemized receipt.

1.2.A.A

3.0.

Travel Request Process
3.1. Reservations

Travel arrangements for the RTD Directors are typically handled by the Board Office.
Travel authorizations signed by the Chair are required for all travel. Directors should
contact the office at least 30 days in advance and provide all information needed to
complete the airline and hotel accommodations. If a Director chooses to make his or
her own travel arrangements, all travel confirmations are to be provided to the Board
Office at the time of booking for the purpose of providing travel packets.
When requesting travel arrangements, Directors should provide the following
information to the Board Office:
 Purpose of the trip
 Destination
 Requested arrival and departure time
 Preferred airline and frequent flyer number (if applicable)
 Any applicable discounts, credits or travel miles to be utilized
 Special considerations
 Travel advance required
Unless prior approval is obtained, the Board Office arranges Directors’ travel on the
most economical fare for the required journey and makes every effort to book the
Directors their desired flights and host hotel accommodations. The Board Office
provides travel packets to each Director with the flight and hotel confirmation,
transportation information, a copy of the event registration and agenda, and other
pertinent travel materials, including an envelope for receipts and travel advance, if
requested, as described in Section 3.2, Travel Advance.
Travel requests received less than seven business days before the scheduled trip are
processed based on the most current rates and availability. A travel approval must
be submitted prior to booking any travel, and a travel advance cannot be issued due
to such short notice.
3.2.

Travel Advance

Directors may request a travel advance up to the amount of the $200.00 for
estimated out-of-pocket expense that will be incurred, less any expenses paid directly
by RTD. Advances should be limited to expenses such as registration fees and
lodging (if not pre-paid by RTD), ground transportation, meals, and gratuities.
A Director seeking a travel advance must request the advance for anticipated travel
expenses at least three weeks prior to the expected departure. Cash advances
cannot be granted unless sufficient funds are available in the requesting Director’s
budget account and are issued through General Accounting approximately five days
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

7 of 16

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

professional meetings deemed in RTD’s best interest. Attendance will be authorized
if the meeting offers a substantial benefit to the conduct of District business or
enhancing professional advancement of the Director.

1.2.A.A

4.0.

Travel Arrangements
4.1.

Transportation
4.1.1. Air Transportation
Air transportation for travel to out-of-District conferences and events is typically
arranged by the RTD Board Office. Travel by indirect routes, or inclusion of side-trips
for personal reasons, must be approved by the Chair. Reimbursement for travel
expenses in a host city is allowed one day before the start of a conference or one
day following scheduled conference events where travel scheduling provisions or
same day flight times are not available or convenient, such as when a Director would
need to fly from Denver to Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a
conference with a start day of Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director
to arrive in time for the Sunday meeting start time.
Directors are responsible for any portion of ticket costs resulting from personal side
trips (including hotel, food, ground transportation, and parking). Airfare is calculated
on a pro-rated basis, but under no circumstance is RTD’s expense to exceed the
economy class or equivalent direct-route pricing.
If the RTD air travel is a portion of another planned flight that has been arranged
directly by the Director, a copy of the itinerary and ticket claiming reimbursement
must be provided to the Board Office at the time of booking and with the expense
report form.
A Director is responsible for any first-class, business class, stretch seating, and prorata boarding expenses.
Directors who wish to use their frequent flyer miles (if applicable) must provide the
Board Office with the frequent flyer number at the time of the booking. The Board
Office requests this information in advance, but it is the sole responsibility of the
Director to ensure his or her account has been credited with the frequent flyer mileage
information.
All air transportation credits paid for by RTD are to be utilized in the booking of future
Director travel only and are not for personal use.
4.1.2. Ground Transportation
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual expense of ground
transportation necessary to conduct official business. As a representative for the
transit agency, Directors are expected to utilize the most efficient, timely, and costeffective ground transportation when traveling locally or out of town, namely public
transit, shuttlebus service, transportation network company such as UBER or LYFT,
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

8 of 16

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

prior to departure. The Director is responsible for submitting the final expense form
within 30 days after return to the District and must remit any unused cash advance
monies to RTD in the form of a check at the time of submitting the final expense
form.

1.2.A.A

4.1.3. Car Rental
Car rental expenses are permitted only with prior approval of the RTD Board Chair
and only when absolutely necessary in the event that another means of transportation
is not feasible. Rental car arrangements should be made by the Board Office staff.
Travel between the airport and the hotel or conference center by rental car or other
means are eligible for reimbursement with receipts provided that the Chair has
authorized the rental.
The rental car should be contracted for a size appropriate for the number of
passengers. The Director must include a copy of the rental contract when submitting
the expense report. Reasonable parking and storage fees for rental cars may be
claimed for reimbursement. Note: Travelers must ensure that adequate insurance
coverage is in place by purchasing optional insurance coverage as part of the rental
agreement. Cars are to be refueled before returning to the rental agency.
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than
by Air
The use of personal vehicles outside of the District is not encouraged. Directors must
have the Chair’s approval prior to using a personal vehicle for official business outside
the boundaries of the District. This includes local conferences covered in Section
4.6, In-State Travel.
If a Director chooses to travel by car or long distance rail rather than by air, the Board
Office staff will follow established guidelines to determine the lowest available flight
cost to and from the destination. If use of a personal vehicle is requested, the
Director is eligible for reimbursement for the cost of mileage up to the maximum
allowable under the Internal Revenue Service guidelines but not to exceed the cost
of air travel to the destination. The cost of the air travel is to be determined by the
Board Office staff prior to the date of travel to determine the amount that may be
reimbursed for mileage. The determination is established by example of other
Director’s airfare for the same trip or by research of the lowest fares. All supporting
documentation must be submitted by the Board Office staff along with the Director’s
expense form.
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement
The standard vehicle mileage allowance is determined annually by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Board Office verifies with the RTD Accounts Payable
Supervisor the most current rates at the start of each calendar year and includes this
amount in each Director’s local and travel expense spreadsheet.
All local mileage incurred by a Director is paid through the local expense cost code
to the Director on all submitted travel expense forms. Round-trip travel to the airport

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

9 of 16

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

taxi, or rental car, in this order of preference. If a Director pays for the transportation
of other Directors or staff, all names are to be documented on the receipt and expense
report for reimbursement.

1.2.A.A

4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations)
The Board Office typically books lodging accommodations via P-Card for each
Director attending an out-of-District event. In the event these fees are not pre-paid,
the Director must submit a copy of the official hotel bill with the expense report when
claiming reimbursement.
The Board Office makes reasonable arrangements at the single occupancy rate for
hotel accommodations in accordance with acceptable standards for that location.
For APTA conferences, hotel reservations cannot be booked until the attendee is
registered for the conference. Directors should inform the Board Office staff in a
timely manner they wish to attend a conference, otherwise the conference hotel
could fill up.
Hotels typically require a personal credit card for the person staying at the hotel for
purpose of incidental expenditures. Arrangements made via RTD P-Card only cover
room and tax. Upon check in, the Directors will need to provide the front desk with
their own personal credit cards for miscellaneous expenses. When checking out,
Directors must ensure that their personal credit cards were not charged for room and
tax.
Note* For Directors using a debit or bank card to cover miscellaneous expenses, the
hotel may place a hold on the card in a set amount for the duration of the stay.
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual cost of lodging, including room
charges and taxes. Charges other than room charges or taxes appearing on the hotel
bill may be reimbursable upon submittal of a completed, signed expense report
accompanied by itemized receipts. Directors must use sound judgment in the
selection of lodging in keeping with the purpose of the travel so as to minimize the
cost to the District. Lodging or hotel accommodations billed to a P-Card require
itemized receipts to match to the actual incurred amount.
When a Director is accompanied by another individual, the District is to be billed only
for the single-occupancy rate for lodging. The Director must pay for the difference
between single- and double-occupancy rate for the room, if applicable.
4.3. Meals
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for daily personal meals and gratuities with
the submittal of an itemized receipt and documentation that identifies the time, place,
and business purpose.
Directors may claim reimbursement for travel expenses, including meals and
gratuities, incurred one day before the start of a conference or one day following a
conference where travel scheduling provisions or same-day flight times are not
available or convenient, such as when a Director would need to fly from Denver to
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

10 of 16

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

locally is included in this expense if agency-issued transit passes are unable to be
used.

1.2.A.A

When attending an out-of-District event or conference for which meals are provided,
Directors are expected to reduce the number of meals for which they intend to be
reimbursed by the number of meals that are provided at the event or conference.
However, a Director is eligible for reimbursement for a meal purchased outside of the
conference if the Director submits an itemized receipt explaining the business purpose
for the meal.
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Miscellaneous expenses such as meal gratuities are to be included with each meal
and indicated on the receipt submitted with the expense report. Reasonable gratuities
for baggage handling at airports or the place of lodging upon arrival and departure
are allowable and must be shown as a separate item under “miscellaneous expense”
on the expense report. Baggage fees paid to airlines for travel must be accompanied
with a receipt. Gratuity for housekeeping during lodging is an allowable expense.
Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for personal calls. Calls for District
business are fully reimbursable as long as documentation related to the person called
and the subject of the call is included with the expense report. A Director who claims
reimbursement for monthly cell phone service may not claim a business call as a
separate, additional expense if the call is also included in the monthly service.
Directors traveling out of the country should coordinate with the Board Office to
determine the most cost-effective means of carrying out RTD-related communications
during the time the Director is traveling.
4.5.

In State Travel

Directors travelling within the state but outside the District to attend seminars,
conferences, or transit-related meetings are eligible for reimbursement for travel
expenses so long as the location is more than two-hours’ driving distance each way
or greater than 160 miles from the point of origin. Covered expenses include
registration fees, lodging, standard mileage, and food when accompanied with valid
itemized receipts and expense reports showing time, place, and purpose. Directors
are not eligible for reimbursement for lodging expenses without the prior approval of
the Chair if the location of an event is within two-hours’ driving distance or less than
160 miles from the point of origin. For additional information regarding in state travel
see section 4.1.4 Personal Vehicles and Travel outside the District other than Air.
(Approved Travel and Local policy, November 20, 2007)
5.0.

Business Communications (cell phone, internet)

Within the first three months after being elected/appointed and subsequently sworn
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

11 of 16

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a conference with a start day of
Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director to arrive in time for the Sunday
meeting start. Directors cannot be reimbursed for any day that they may choose to
go early or stay late for personal reasons. (See Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.)
Directors must provide itemized receipts for incurred travel-related expenses.

in, Directors are eligible for reimbursement for an initial home office setup package.
Eligible equipment includes a smart phone, high-speed internet equipment such as a
cable modem and router, fax machine, and printer. The Director is responsible for
selection, use, ownership, loss, and replacement of all equipment after initial
reimbursement by the District. Directors may opt to purchase the equipment or utilize
RTD-owned equipment. Equipment purchased by Directors and reimbursed as part
of the initial $700 set up fee is considered RTD property. All equipment provided by
the District remains the property of the District and must be returned upon the
Director’s departure from office. RTD-owned equipment is subject to RTD rules for
the use and handling of agency-owned equipment, including but not limited to policies
governing the type of information permitted to be stored or accessed on the computer
or smart phone. The total package selected is subject to the $700 initial setup limit.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 20, 2007)
In the alternative, Directors may use their existing equipment or may acquire their
own equipment for use in conducting their official duties. To be eligible for
reimbursement for recurring IT expenses, a Director must submit on a monthly basis
documentary evidence such as a telephone bill indicating the time, place, amount,
and business purpose, which is sufficient to meet the IRS requirement for time, place
and business purpose for equipment purchase or usage. The first land-line telephone
into a home is considered personal and cannot be reimbursed as a business expense.
Monthly reimbursement claims that are not accompanied by supporting
documentation are not eligible for reimbursement.
RTD IT covers the cost of each Director’s first technical home visit each year, for the
purpose of providing IT consultation and verification that the Director’s personal or
agency-provided hardware and equipment is in good working order. An outside
vendor, rather than an RTD staff member, is responsible for the technical home visit.
6.0.

Publications

Directors are eligible for an annual allowance of up to $95 for local publications.
Directors should identify, on an annual basis, publications to which they subscribe
and submit their subscription costs on their monthly local expense report.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 14, 2006)
7.0.

Conference Registrations

Registration fees for conferences, workshops, or other approved events are typically
pre-paid directly by the Board Office. In circumstances where a Director pays for his
or her own registration fees, the Director is eligible for reimbursement and must
submit with the expense report when claiming reimbursement a receipt or proof of
fee and a copy of the program setting forth any fees for registration.
The Board cannot exceed its budget allocations for conferences, seminars, and other
such events. Out-of-District registration fees for the first two sanctioned events for
each Director are not charged against the Director’s expenses, subject to the

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

12 of 16

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.2.A.A

1.2.A.A

limitations indicated below. Local registration fees are charged to the Directors’ local
expenses. The Chair monitors the Board expenditures on a quarterly basis.
Local Conferences/Seminars

Directors are eligible for reimbursement for expenditures or fees incurred while
attending local seminars, technical meetings, or meetings related to professional
development upon submittal of a local expense report along with appropriate receipts.
Such fees are charged to the Director’s local expense budget.
7.2.

Out of Town Conferences

The Chair is responsible for reviewing Directors’ travel authorization requests to
attend out-of-District conferences, such as APTA conferences and Rail~Volution.
Each Director is permitted to attend up to two such sanctioned out-of-District
conferences each year. Budget permitting, the Chair may choose to permit individual
Directors to attend additional transit industry-related conferences. The Board Office
is responsible for registering attending Directors, and the office pays the registration
fees for the first two sanctioned conferences using the office’s general budget rather
than the Directors’ individual travel expense budgets.
8.0.

Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions

The Regional Transportation District encourages development of Directors through
active membership in professional organizations.
Although membership in
professional affiliations can be an indirect benefit to RTD as an organization, the main
benefit is the development of the Director, by allowing the Director to keep abreast
of trends in their transportation or technology, cultivate networks with other
professionals, and develop skills and ideas to become more effective in their policymaking at RTD. Any memberships that are of an extraordinary cost or that require
approval will go before the Executive Committee for approval.
Membership subscriptions in local chambers or approved organizations are processed
through the RTD Public Relations Office. Directors should submit their membership
requests through the Board office who will track and coordinate with the RTD staff
responsible for payment. Organizations must meet the criteria of being transit-related
and/or necessary to the conduct of business and local community involvement.
Membership requests that do not fit this criterion must be approved through the
General Manager’s budget. The Board policy on Organizational Memberships was
passed in August of 2011.
For budgeted events only, such as the Board Member/Board Support conference
hosted by the Board in 2015, the budget allocations for specific events serve as the
official authorization for the Chair to approve. For out-of-District budgeted events
only, the “RTD Travel Request and Authorization” form and the expense report
require approval from the Chair.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

13 of 16

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

7.1.

1.2.A.A

Transit Related Community Events

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary expenses associated
with attending an event for the Director and one guest, along with other approved
attendees as approved by the Chair, so long as the event is transit related. The
expenses of the Director and one guest are paid from the Director’s local expense
fund. The approved attendees will come from the general Board Office budget.
10.0. Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events
Participation in community non-transit related events is supported by RTD with
approval of the benefit to the agency. Such events are essential in getting the
community involved in the mission and vision of RTD. At times the General Manager
or RTD outreach departments purchase a table at a community event and invite
Directors as ambassadors for RTD at no cost to the Director; any other approved
events are paid for out of the Director’s local expense budget. Should a Director
decide to purchase a table for an event in the Director’s community with local
expense funds, any unused seats are to be paid for out of the Director’s local budget
as well.
At no time can a Director’s expense funds or RTD funds be used for any event or
expenditure that is political in nature. For guidance on determining whether an
event or expenditure is political in nature, Directors should consult with RTD
General Counsel.
11.0. Travel Insurance
RTD has in force a special Travel and Accident Policy for Directors while on official
business; therefore, additional travel insurance is not eligible for reimbursement.
12.0. Expense Reports
12.1. Travel Expense Reports
Pursuant to IRS guidelines, a Director must submit a completed expense report to the
Board Office no later than the end of the month following the Director’s return to the
District. (e.g., If the trip was taken in October, the expense report is due no later
than by November 30th). The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend the
provision of travel arrangements for any Director who is delinquent in submitting an
expense report. If extra time is needed to complete the expense report or the Director
has a valid reason for the delay, the Chair should be notified to make the decision to
extend this timeline.
The Board Office processes an expense report for each Director traveling to an outof-District conference or event. In order to provide processing time for the staff to
meet the deadline for submitting the reports to the Chair, the Directors must submit
original copies of all receipts, invoices, travel itineraries, hotel bills, and associated
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

14 of 16

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

9.0.

1.2.A.A

documentation for expense reimbursement. Directors should submit a signed expense
report to the Board Office within two weeks after returning from the trip.

Pursuant to IRS guidelines, in order to receive reimbursement for local expenses, a
Director must submit a completed monthly local expense report to the Board Office
within 90 days of the date of the incurred expense. In the months in which no
expenses are incurred or in which the Director does not wish to claim any expense,
the Director must still submit a signed report for the reporting month with zero
balance.
12.3. Expense Records
The Board Office keeps records of each Director’s submitted local and travel
expenses and provides to the Chair a quarterly summary report of all expenses
incurred by the Directors. The Board Office retains a copy of the report for audit
purposes. The Chair may request a written explanation for any outstanding expense
reports.
13.
Definitions
For purposes of this policy:
a. “Chair” means the Chair of the Board of Directors.
b. “IT expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable to
a Director’s IT expense budget as described in Section 1.0, General
Policy.
c. “Itemized receipt” means a printed receipt or document showing
the cost, time, date, and business purpose of the expense incurred,
along with the name and title of any other person whose individual
expense is also detailed on the receipt or document.
d. “Local expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable
to a Director’s local expense budget as described in Section 1.0,
General Policy.
e. “Out-of-District” means outside of the contiguous Regional
Transportation District and its non-contiguous enclaves.
f. “Travel expense” means an eligible expense attributed or
attributable to a Director’s travel expense budget as described in
Section 1.0, General Policy.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

15 of 16

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

12.2. Local Expense Reports

1.2.A.A

Effective Date:
Revision Date:
Purpose:

RTD Board of Directors
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager for Board of
Directors
TBD
March 26, 2019
This document replaces and updates Regional
Transportation District Policy, Board of Directors
Business and Conference Expenses adopted March 23,
1999.

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Document Owner:
Author:

Approval/s (if applicable)

Version
BOD001
BOD002
BOD003

BOD004
BOD005

Date
1999-1021
2001-1114
2007-1120
08/10
2012-0822

BOD006

BOD007
BOD008
BOD009

2016-1129
2019-0326
2019-0514

Change History
Change Definition
Board Travel Policy Dates and Amounts from Amy
Caldwell
Updates & incorporates all related Board Policies and
Guidelines into one document
Updates & incorporates all changes made to the Board
Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement
Policies approved at the 11/20/07 Board Meeting.
Updates to provide summarization of changes

Updates to follow agency guidelines of Travel and
Business expenses directive revised and approved
2013-02-06
Update approved by full Board
Administrative changes and clarifications; addition of
definitions section.
Clarifies the attendance of an invited guest when a
Director cannot attend an event

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

16 of 16

Packet Pg. 22

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 1, 2019

Subject:

2018 CAFR and Report to Governance

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 1, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2018 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
GM CORE AND TASK GOALS MET
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. RTD is also required
to provide annual audited financial statements to external entities and other government organizations to
be in full compliance with legal covenants, debt agreements, and other contractual documents. The
accounting firm of RubinBrown, LLP performed the 2018 audit. In addition to the requirements set forth
in state statutes, the audit also was designed to fulfill the requirements of the federal Single Audit Act of
1984 and related OMB circular A-133.
DISCUSSION
As stated in the auditor’s unmodified opinion, the financial statements in the enclosed Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of RTD as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flow for the 2018 and
2017 fiscal years in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the
year ended December 31, 2018 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor,
RubinBrown, LLP.
2. Do not accept and enter into the record the audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2018 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD’s independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is not the recommended action, since state statutes and other sources, such as rating
agencies and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into
the record.

ATTACHMENTS:


RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 23

2.11.A


RTD 2018 Viewpoints (PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

2.11.A.a

COMPREHENSIVE

Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado
303.299.6000 rtd-denver.com
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DENVER, COLORADO
COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017

Prepared by
Finance Division

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2

Packet Pg. 27

2.11.A.a

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Letter from Chair, Executive Committee

5

Letter of Transmittal

7

Board of Directors

13

District Service Area Map

14

Organization Chart

15

Department Officials

15

GFOA Certificate of Achievement

16

FINANCIAL SECTION
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

19

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

23

Basic Financial Statements
Statements of Net Position

38

Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

40

Statements of Cash Flow

41

Notes to Financial Statements

43

Required Supplementary Information
Pension Plan Summary

86

Supplemental Information
Schedule of Expense and Revenue –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

92

STATISTICAL SECTION
Net Position by Component

94

Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

95

3
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Page

INTRODUCTORY SECTION

2.11.A.a

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(CONTINUED)
Operating and Other Expenses and Capital Outlays

96

Revenue by Source

97

Debt Coverage Ratios

98

Demographic and Operating Data

100

Debt Disclosure Tables

101

Strategic Budget Plan –Operations

102

Strategic Budget Plan - Capital Program

103

Statement of Debt

104

Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

105

Advertising and Ancillary Revenues

105

Grant Receipts and Local Contributions

105

Five-Year Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses
and Changes in Net Position

106

Five-Year Schedule of Expenses and Revenues –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

107

Fiscal Year 2017 and 2018 Budget

108

Trip Fares

109

RTD Net Taxable Retail Sales

110

4
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Page

2.11.A.a

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
In accordance with Colorado statutes and Regional Transportation District (RTD) bylaws, the enclosed Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report of the Regional Transportation District as of December 31, 2018, has been compiled. Responsibility for the accuracy of the
presented data and the completeness and fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with RTD. Management believes
the data, as presented, fairly sets forth the financial position and operating results of RTD. Disclosures necessary to enable the reader
to gain the maximum understanding of the financial affairs of RTD have been included.
In developing and evaluating RTD’s accounting system, consideration has been given to the adequacy of internal accounting controls.
These controls are discussed by the Chief Financial Officer in the Letter of Transmittal. Within that framework, we believe RTD’s
internal accounting controls adequately safeguard assets and provide reasonable assurance of the proper recording of financial
transactions.
This report has been prepared according to the guidelines recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United
States and Canada. In accordance with these guidelines, the accompanying report is presented in three parts:
1.

Introductory Section, including the Chief Financial Officer’s Letter of Transmittal.

2.

Financial Section containing the independent auditor’s report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the financial
statements, notes thereto and supplemental information.

3.

Statistical Section, including selected tables of unaudited data depicting the financial history of RTD, demographics, and
other miscellaneous information.

Colorado law requires the governing bodies of local governments to have an independent audit of RTD’s financial statements
performed. RTD has complied with this requirement and has included the report of the independent auditors in the Financial Section
of this report.
Preparation of this Comprehensive Annual Financial Report could not have been accomplished without the dedicated efforts of the
entire financial staff. Should you have any questions or comments, please contact Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer.
Respectfully submitted,
Doug Tisdale
Chair, Executive Committee

5
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

April 29, 2019

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

6

Packet Pg. 31

2.11.A.a

April 29, 2019
Mr. Doug Tisdale
Chair, Executive Committee
Regional Transportation District
State law requires that all general-purpose local governments publish within seven months of the close of each fiscal year a
complete set of financial statements presented in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. Pursuant
to that requirement, we hereby issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of RTD. Consequently, management assumes
full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of all of the information presented in this report. To provide a reasonable
basis for making these representations, management of RTD has established a comprehensive internal control framework that
is designed both to protect the government’s assets from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient, reliable information
for the preparation of RTD’s financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Because the cost of internal controls should not
outweigh their benefits, RTD’s comprehensive framework of internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable rather
than absolute assurance that the financial statements will be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert that,
to the best of our knowledge and belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.
RTD’s financial statements have been audited by RubinBrown, LLP, a firm of licensed certified public accountants. The goal of
the independent audit was to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements of RTD for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2018, are free of material misstatement. The independent audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. The independent auditor
concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an unmodified opinion that RTD’s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP. The independent
auditor’s report is presented as the first component of the Financial Section of this report.
The independent audit of the financial statements of RTD was part of a broader, federally mandated “Single Audit” designed to
meet the special needs of federal grantor agencies. The standards governing Single Audit engagements require the independent
auditor to report not only on the fair presentation of the financial statements, but also on the audited government’s internal
controls and compliance with legal requirements, with special emphasis on internal controls and legal requirements involving
the administration of federal awards. These reports are in RTD’s separately issued Single Audit Report.
GAAP requires that management provide a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial
statements in the form of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to complement
the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it. RTD’s MD&A can be found immediately following the report of the
independent auditors.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (RTD)
RTD provides public mass transit service to the Denver metropolitan area. In 1969, the Colorado General Assembly (Assembly)
found that public transit was a necessary part of the growing Denver Metropolitan Region. The Assembly found that public

7
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Regional Transportation District

2.11.A.a

sector involvement was the best method to ensure the continuation of this vital component. Thus, the Regional Transportation
District was created as a political subdivision of the State effective July 1969 “to develop, maintain, and operate a public
mass transportation system for the benefit of the District.”

Since 1983, RTD has had a fifteen-member Board of Directors that are elected by their constituents to serve four-year terms
to govern RTD. There are approximately 200,000 residents per director district. The RTD Board of Directors is responsible for
setting policy, overseeing the agency’s annual budget, and establishing short and long-range transit goals and plans in concert
with local, state, and federal agencies.
RTD employs over 2,779 men and women, making it one of the largest employers in the eight county areas. In addition, RTD
contracts with private carriers to provide access-a-ride, fixed route and commuter rail services employing over 2,058 men and
women. Besides its administrative headquarters in Denver, RTD has seven operating facilities (excluding purchased
transportation services), including four in Denver, one in Aurora, one in Englewood, and one in Boulder.
The financial reporting entity includes all of the financial activities of RTD, as well as those activities of its component unit,
the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority), a nonprofit corporation established to facilitate RTD’s use of
lease/purchase financing.
RTD also maintains budgetary controls. These controls ensure compliance with legal provisions embodied in the annual
appropriated budget approved by RTD’s Board of Directors. The budget sets forth proposed outlays for operations, planning,
administration, development, debt service, and capital assets. The level of budgetary control (that is, the level at which
expenditures cannot legally exceed the appropriated amount) is established at the project level.
The annual budget serves as the foundation for RTD’s financial planning and control. All departments of RTD are required to
submit requests for appropriation to the General Manager on or before August 1st of each year. The General Manager uses
these requests as the starting point for developing a proposed budget. The General Manager then presents this proposed budget
to the Board of Directors for review prior to October 15th. The Board of Directors is required to hold a public hearing on the
proposed budget and to adopt a final budget no later than December 31st.
Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except that the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted
appropriation resolution, to carry-over the unused portion of the funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to
exceed three years.
RTD’s policy also authorizes the General Manager to approve certain line-item transfers within the budget. Budget-to-actual
comparisons are provided in the Supplemental Information Section of this report.
Factors Affecting Financial Condition
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered in the broader
perspective of the specific environment within which RTD operates.
RTD serves the eight-county region considered the Denver metropolitan area. It is the most populated area of the state and
the economic barometer of Colorado. Employment in the Denver Metro area is dominated by small businesses. These companies
represent a diverse mix of industries and are located throughout the Denver metropolitan area, providing a geographic balance
in employment centers.

8
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

RTD boundaries now include Jefferson, Boulder, and Denver counties, most of the City and County of Broomfield, and portions
of Adams, Douglas, Weld, and Arapahoe counties. Over 3.08 million people reside within RTD’s 2,342 square mile area.

2.11.A.a

Key Economic Indicators
Job Growth
Unemployment
Personal Income Growth
Population Growth
Inflation

2017 Actual
6.2%
2.7%
5.8%
1.4%
3.4%

2018 Forecast
5.5%
3.3%
5.4%
1.4%
2.7%

2019 Forecast
6.0%
3.6%
5.3%
1.4%
2.3%

On November 3, 1992, the voters of Colorado approved a Constitutional Amendment (the “Amendment”) that limits taxes,
revenue, and spending for state and local governments effective December 31, 1992. On November 7, 1995, the voters of the
District exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On
November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the
Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred to finance the construction of the Southeast and Southwest light rail
lines or to operate such for as long as any debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in the District’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to
1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted
the District from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the
increased tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program.
At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, the District’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate
the transit system financed through FasTracks.
Long-term Financial Planning
Each year the Board of Directors adopts a financially balanced Mid-Term Financial Plan (MTFP), which is the six-year operating
and capital improvement plan for RTD including both the Base System and FasTracks. This plan was previously made up of
two separate components known as the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) for the Base System and the Annual Program Evaluation
(APE) for FasTracks. The MTFP is a component of the long-term transportation planning program for the Denver metropolitan
area evaluated by the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG). While the MTFP is developed separately for the Base
System and FasTracks, RTD integrates both plans into a single medium and long-term Financial Plan which includes the entirety
of RTD in a single report. This financial information forms the basis for the development of RTD’s annual budget.
Long-term financial planning seeks to allocate resources among related and, at times, competing activities and to optimize
those resources in a manner consistent with defined organizational goals and objectives.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RTD management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that assets
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse and that adequate accounting data are compiled to allow for the preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP. RTD has designed its internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that these objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that: (1) the costs of a
control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and (2) the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgment by management.
Single Audit: As a recipient of federal assistance, RTD is responsible for ensuring that an adequate internal control structure
is instituted to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to those programs. This internal control
structure is subject to periodic evaluation by management and the RTD internal audit staff.

9

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

The Colorado Legislative Council (CLC) in its March 2019 report forecasts that the economy is expected to grow at a more
moderate pace; demographic change, growing inflationary pressures and rising interest rates will slow consumer spending.
Economists for CLC reported the following key economic indicators:

2.11.A.a

Fiscal Policy: RTD follows a fiscal policy approved by the Board of Directors annually or as necessary due to modification.
The fiscal policy contains policies for revenue, investments, expenditures, capital improvements, fund balance, debt, budgeting,
accounting and grants.
Debt Administration: RTD formulates its debt policy to protect its credit ratings and soundly manage its assets and liabilities.
Included in this policy is a requirement that debt will not be used to finance current operations. Another requirement precludes
financing capital projects beyond the useful life of the project. Additional policies go beyond these essential guidelines and
result in further protection. RTD has a dual rating for its 1.0% sales tax credit. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax
credit as “Aa1”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AAA” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit
“AA” that are secured by the 0.6% sales tax. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and
Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AA+” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit “AA” that are secured by the
0.4% sales tax.
Cash Management: The main objective of RTD’s cash management program is the protection of investment principal while
providing optimal levels of cash throughout the year. The RTD investment policy is modified periodically to adapt to changes
in eligible investments, benchmarks, and specific objectives.
During the year, RTD invested its cash in various investment vehicles including money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities,
agency securities, discount notes, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, and variable and fixed rate mortgage-backed
securities. The total average return on investments for the year was 1.4%.
Risk Management: RTD employs a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets and
control and prevent losses.
The areas of self-insurance are worker’s compensation, automobile and general liability. RTD is self-insured for liability, the
limits of which are $387,000 per person and $1,093,000 per occurrence as specified under the Colorado Governmental
Immunity statute. The self-insured retention for worker’s compensation claims is $2,000,000 per claim, with any amounts
above this covered by purchased insurance up to the legal limits of liability under the Colorado worker’s compensation statute.
Commercial insurance policies provide property coverage up to $500,000,000 for buildings, their contents, and rolling stock
(other than collision); a Commercial Crime Policy with a limit of $10,000,000; a $5,000 bond for CDL Testing Performance
Bond; $2,600,000 Workers’ Compensation Bond; Felonious Assault Policy; travel insurance for employees on RTD business;
fiduciary coverage on the Trustees of the Union Pension Trust, Salaried Pension Trust, Represented Health and Welfare Union
Trust, Legal Trust, and the employees administering the health benefits program for salaried employees with a limit of
$8,000,000; Cyber Liability policy with a limit of $10,000,000; Drone policy with a limit of $10,000,000. With the growth of
Light Rail Transit (LRT) services, and Commuter Rail Transit (CRT) services. RTD has added Railroad Protective and Railroad
Liability commercial insurance policies that provide coverage when required under operational needs.
OTHER INFORMATION
Independent Audit: State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. The accounting firm
of RubinBrown LLP was selected to perform the 2018 audit. This audit also was designated to meet the requirements of the
Federal Single Audit 2 CFR 200.501, Uniform Grant Guidance and related 2 CFR 200, Uniform Grant Guidance – Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements. The auditor’s report on the financial statements and

10
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

As part of RTD’s single audit, tests are made to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure, including that portion
related to federal financial assistance programs, as well as to evaluate RTD’s compliance. RTD’s single audit for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2018 found no instances of material weakness in the internal control structures or significant
violations of applicable laws and regulations. A separate report was prepared for this purpose.

2.11.A.a

schedules are included in the Financial Section of this report. The auditor’s report related specifically to the single audit is
included in a separate report.

In order to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, RTD must publish an easily readable
and efficiently organized Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the contents of which must conform to program standards.
This report must also satisfy both GAAP and applicable legal requirements.
The Certificate of Achievement is valid for one year only. We believe our current Comprehensive Annual Financial Report meets
the program’s requirements and will be submitting it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.
Acknowledgements: Preparation of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report on a timely basis was made possible by the
dedicated services of the entire staff of the Finance Division. Each member of the division has our sincere appreciation for the
contributions made in the preparation of this report.
Finally, without the leadership and support of the members of the RTD’s Board of Directors, preparation of this report would
not have been possible.
Sincerely,
Heather McKillop
Chief Financial Officer

11
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Awards: The Government Finance Officers Associations (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting to RTD for its Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. This
is the twenty-sixth consecutive year that RTD has been awarded this prestigious award.

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

12

Packet Pg. 37

2.11.A.a

RTD’s governing body is a 15-member elected Board of Directors, with each member elected from one of the fifteen districts
comprising RTD’s service area. Each district is apportioned equally by population and most districts cross county boundaries.
The districts are assigned letter designations from “A” to “O”. The following are the members of the Board of Directors as of
January 2019:
District A
Kate Williams
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District I
Judy Lubow
Boulder/Broomfield/Adams/Weld Counties

District B
Shontel Lewis
Denver/Adams Counties

District J
Vince Buzek
Adams/Jefferson Counties

District C
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Second Vice Chair
Denver/Jefferson Counties

District K
Troy Whitmore
Adams/Weld Counties

District D
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Denver/Jefferson/Arapahoe Counties

District L
Shelley Cook, Treasurer
Jefferson/Adams Counties

District E
Claudia Folska PhD.
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District M
Natalie Menten
Jefferson County

District F
Bob Broom
Arapahoe County

District N
Peggy Catlin, First Vice Chair
Jefferson County

District G
Ken Mihalik
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

District O
Lynn Guissinger
Boulder County

District H
Doug Tisdale, Chair
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

13
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Board of Directors

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

14

Packet Pg. 39

2.11.A.a

Organization Chart

Taxpayers and Customers
Board of Directors

General Manager

Operations
Bus and Rail

Communications

Safety, Security &
Facilities

Planning

Finance/Administration

General Counsel

Capital Programs

Department Officials
General Manager/Chief Executive Officer
Dave Genova

AGM, Communications
Pauletta Tonilas

AGM, Safety, Security & Asset Management
Michael Meader

AGM, Planning
William C. Van Meter

Chief Operating Officer, Bus and Rail
Michael Ford

AGM, Capital Programs & Facilities

AGM, Bus Operations
Fred Worthen

Chief Financial Officer/Administration

AGM, Rail Operation
Dave Jensen

General Counsel
Rolf Asphaug

Henry Stopplecamp
Heather McKillop

15
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

January 2019

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

16

Packet Pg. 41

FINANCIAL SECTION

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

17

Packet Pg. 42

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

18

Packet Pg. 43

2.11.A.a
RubinBrown LLP
Certified Public Accountants &
Business Consultants

Independent Auditors’ Report
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

1900 Sixteenth Street
Suite 300
Denver, CO 80202

W rubinbrown.com
E info@rubinbrown.com

Report On The Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the related
notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial
statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management’s Responsibility For The Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America; this includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal
control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to financial audits
contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’
judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor
considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the entity’s internal control. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.

19
Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

T 303.698.1883
F 303.777.4458

2.11.A.a

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of RTD as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the changes
in its financial position and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
the management’s discussion and analysis and pension plan summary information on
pages 23 through 35 and 87 through 90, respectively, be presented to supplement the
basic financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial
statements, is required by Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which considers
it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic financial statements
in an appropriate operational, economic or historical context. We have applied certain
limited procedures to the required supplementary information in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which consisted
of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the information and
comparing the information for consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries,
the basic financial statements and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the
basic financial statements. We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the
information because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to
express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary And Other Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements that collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial statements. The
accompanying budgetary information, introductory section and statistical section are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic
financial statements.

20
Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

2.11.A.a

The budgetary information is the responsibility of management and was derived from
and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional
procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements
or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
In our opinion, the budgetary information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
relation to the financial statements as a whole.
The introductory and statistical sections have not been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and accordingly, we do
not express an opinion or provide any assurance on them.
Other Reporting Required By Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated
April 29, 2019 on our consideration of RTD’s internal control over financial reporting and
on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts and
grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to describe the scope
of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results
of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on internal control over financial reporting
or on compliance. That report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering RTD’s internal control over financial
reporting and compliance.

April 29, 2019

21
Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

22

Packet Pg. 47

The management of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) offers users of our financial statements this narrative overview and analysis
of the financial activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. This discussion and analysis is designed to assist the reader
to focus on significant financial activities and identify any significant changes in the financial position of RTD. It should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements that follow this section. All amounts, unless otherwise indicated, are expressed in thousands of dollars.
Key Reporting Implementations
In fiscal year 2016 RTD implemented the provisions of Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 72, Fair Value
Measurement and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is to enhance the comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets and
liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures to provide
comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a government's financial position.
Financial Highlights
As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded total liabilities and deferred inflows
of resources by $3,463,506 and $3,413,509 respectively. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2018 was
$(207,306) compared to $(223,204) in 2017. RTD’s unrestricted net position was negatively impacted by the implementation of GASB
Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions (GASB 68). GASB 68 required RTD to record the amount of unfunded
pension liabilities. More information on the pension plans is available in the Notes.
The net position of RTD increased by $49,997 during the current year compared to an increase of $91,157 in the previous year. The
increase for 2018 and 2017 was due to higher operating revenues, sales and use tax and grant revenues, net of increases in operating
expenses and non-operating expenses which resulted from an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense
reduction initiatives undertaken by RTD.
RTD’s sales and use tax revenues are its largest single source of revenues. These tax revenues increased $36,005 (6.0%) in 2018 and
increased $34,589 (6.1%) in the previous year. In 2018 and 2017, The District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased
consumer and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth in both years of 1.4%, low unemployment
of 3.3% and 2.7% as well as growth in personal income of 5.4% and 5.8%, respectively.
For 2018, total operating expenses exceeded total revenues resulting in a loss before non-operating revenue and expenses of $713,392
compared to a loss of $683,158 for 2017. The increase in operating loss for 2018 and 2017 was mostly due to FasTracks launch of A
and B line depreciating assets for a full year and betterments for the North Metro and Southeast Corridor Extension build-outs. RTD
anticipates operating losses, as these losses are subsidized by non-operating sales and use tax, grant revenues and other miscellaneous
income.
RTD’s total debt decreased $68,788 (2.0%) and decreased $93,317 (2.6%) in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Debt decreased in 2018 due
to payment of principal and 2017 due to the refunding and partial extinguishment of the DUSPA bonds.
Capital grants and local contributions decreased $5,393 (6.2%) in 2018 and decreased 115,840 (57.3%) in the previous year. The decrease
in 2018 was a result of South East Rail Extension being in final phase of completion. The decrease in 2017 occurred as a result of Eagle P3
project construction being in the final phase of completion.
RTD’s capital assets, excluding depreciation, increased $312,270 (3.6%) in 2018 and increased $420,558 (5.2%) in 2017. The increase in
both 2018 and 2017 was primarily due to the build-out of the FasTracks project.

23
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

Management’s Discussion and Analysis serves as an introduction to RTD’s basic financial statements. RTD’s financial statements are
prepared using proprietary fund (enterprise fund) accounting that uses the same basis of accounting as private-sector business enterprises.
Under this method of accounting, an economic resources measurement focus and an accrual basis of accounting is used. Revenue is recorded
when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred.
The basic financial statements are comprised of four components: statements of net position; statements of revenues, expenses and
changes in net position; statements of cash flows; and notes to the financial statements.
The statements of net position presents information on assets and deferred outflows of resources and liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources, with the difference between the two reported as the net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net position may serve
as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of RTD is improving or deteriorating. The statements of revenues, expenses, and
changes in net position presents information on operating revenues and expenses and non-operating revenues and expenses of RTD for the
fiscal year with the difference, the net income or loss, combined with any capital grants and local contributions to determine the change in
net position for the year. That change combined with the previous year-end total net position reconciles to the net position total at the end
of the current fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the changes occurs,
regardless of the timing of the related cash flows.
The statements of cash flows reports cash and cash equivalent activities for the fiscal year resulting from operating activities, capital, and
related financing activities, noncapital and related financing activities and investing activities. The result of these activities added to the
beginning of the year cash balance reconciles to the cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the current fiscal year. The statements
of cash flows, along with the related notes and information in other financial statements, can be used to assess the following: RTD’s ability
to generate positive cash flows and pay its debt as the debt matures; the reasons for differences between RTD’s operating cash flows and
operating income (loss); and the effect of investing, capital, and financing activities on RTD’s financial position.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information that is essential to fully understand the data provided in the statements
of net position, statements of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position, and statements of cash flows.
RTD provides bus, paratransit, and light rail service in a 2,342 square mile area in and around Denver, Colorado. The activities of RTD are
supported by a 0.6% and 0.4% sales and use tax collected within the District. The 0.6% sales and use tax is used to fund the Base System
operations of RTD. The Base System operations provide the bus and the majority of current light rail services in the Denver area. The 0.4%
sales and use tax funds the FasTracks build-out program and operation and maintenance of those program elements as well as providing for
enhanced transit services in the District. Additional revenue sources include fare collections, federal, state, and local financial assistance,
investment income, and other income such as advertising and rental income.
Financial Analysis
Condensed Financial Information - Condensed financial information from the statements of net position and statements of revenues,
expenses, and changes in net position is presented below.
Statements of Net Position – As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded
total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources by $3,463,506 and $3,413,509, respectively. The largest portion of this excess, in 2018
and in 2017, was invested in capital assets, net of related debt. RTD uses these capital assets to provide public transportation services to
customers; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending. Although RTD’s investment in capital assets is reported net of
related debt, it should be noted that funding required to repay this debt will be obtained from other sources such as sales and use tax, since
the capital assets themselves cannot be used to pay the related debt. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2018
was $(207,306) compared to $(223,204) in 2017. Substantially all of the unrestricted net position, although not legally restricted, has
been appropriated or reserved by the RTD Board for future capital acquisition and reserve policy requirements, and debt liquidation during

24
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Basic Financial Statements

the budget process. The deficit balance in Unrestricted Net Position includes an allowance for a Net Pension Liability of $303,435 in 2018
for the represented employee defined benefit pension plan (see Note I). RTD has recognized this liability in its financial statements in
accordance with GASB Statement 68; however, RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining
agreement.
Condensed Summary Statements of Net Position
2018
Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Current assets
Current assets - restricted
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
Other noncurrent assets
Total assets
Deferred outflows of resources
Total assets and deferred outflows of resources

$

590,800
231,752
6,851,205
146,383
7,820,140
80,739
7,900,879

2017
$

509,171
270,180
6,804,036
263,293
7,846,680
95,038
7,941,718

2016
$

519,762
508,998
6,602,020
139,192
7,769,972
107,526
7,877,498

Liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities
Deferred inflows of resources
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources

249,953
4,083,427
4,333,380
103,993
4,437,373

255,237
4,253,670
4,508,907
19,302
4,528,209

238,297
4,311,085
4,549,382
5,764
4,555,146

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted debt service
Restricted TABOR
Restricted Other
Unrestricted
Total net position

3,144,175
139,779
24,079
362,779
(207,306)
3,463,506

3,135,186
148,627
25,735
303,449
(223,204)
3,389,793 $

3,119,274
142,564
21,609
253,384
(214,479)
3,322,352

$

$

In 2018, capital assets net of accumulated depreciation increased $47,169 (0.7%) for acquisition of revenue equipment, buildings, land,
and construction in progress for the projects in the FasTracks program.
Current liabilities decreased $5,284 (2.1%) in 2018 primarily due to lower volume of Ecopass 2019 contracts processed and reduction of
construction contract retention.
Noncurrent liabilities and deferred inflows decreased $85,552 (2.0%) in 2018 primarily due to change in the Net Pension Liability recognition
of deferred resources as require by GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, and GASB Statement 71,
Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date.
The net position of RTD increased by $49,997 (1.5%) during the current year compared to an increase of $91,157 (2.7%) in the previous
year. The increase in 2018 and 2017 was due to higher operating revenues, sales and use tax collection increases a one-time gain recognized
for a bond refunding, net of increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses.

25
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position–The following summary of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position shows the activities of RTD resulted in change of net position. The key elements of changes in net position for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 with comparative information for 2016 are shown in the following table:
The information contained in the condensed information table is used as the basis for the revenue and expense discussion presented
below, surrounding RTD’s activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Summary of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
2018
2017

Operating revenue:
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Nonoperating revenues (expenses):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain on Sale of Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/ Unrealized Loss on Assets
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Income before capital contribution
Capital grants and local contributions

$

Increase in net position
NET POSITION,, beginning
g
g of year
y
(
NET POSITION, end of year

)
$

143,231
7,535
150,766

$

140,217
7,159
147,376

2016
$

134,622
5,803
140,425

183,899
52,993
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
285,653
864,158
(713,392)

172,535
91,442
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213
248,633
830,534
(683,158)

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
781,611
(641,186)

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(62,770)
(1,465)
682,387
(31,005)
81,002

598,187
80,412
63,030
14,618
(65,346)
(2,981)
687,920
4,762
86,395

563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365
(56,821)
202,235

49,997

91,157

145,414

3,413,509

3,322,352

3,176,938

3,463,506

$

3,413,509

$

3,322,352

26
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Revenues - The following schedule and charts show the major sources of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016.
Revenue Analysis
2018
Revenues
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Capital grants and local contributions
Total Revenues

$

2017

143,231
7,535
634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
81,002
978,390

$

$

$

140,217
7,159
598,187
80,412
63,030
14,618
86,395
990,018

2016
$

$

134,622
5,803
563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
202,235
1,005,555

Revenue Analysis
$700,000
$600,000
$500,000
$400,000
$300,000
$200,000
$100,000
$-

2018

2017

2016

27
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

Other income
1.3%
Investment
income
1.4%
Grant
operating
assistance
8.8%

2018 Revenue
Passenger fares
14.6%
Other income
1.5%

Advertising and
other
0.8%

Investment
income
6.4%

Capital grants
and local
contributions
8.7%

2017 Revenue
Passenger fares
14.2%

Advertising and
other
0.7%

Grant
operating
assistance
8.1%
Sales and use
tax
60.4%

Sales and use
tax
64.8%

Passenger fares – Passenger fares provided 14.6% and 14.2% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Farebox receipts, monthly
and annual pass revenue, and special event fares for bus and rail services are included in passenger fares. Passenger fares increased by
$3,014 (2.1%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $5,595 (4.2%) in 2017. Passenger fares changes in 2018 and 2017 were minimal.
Advertising and other – Advertising and other revenue provided 0.8% and 0.7% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017; this includes revenues
from advertisements primarily on RTD’s buses and external wraps on light rail vehicles. Advertising and other income increased $376 (5.3%)
in 2018 compared to an increase of $1,356 (23.4%) in 2017. The increase in 2018 was minimal. The increase in 2017 was due to an
increase in advertising revenue related to a stronger economy, new rail lines and revenue for lease and naming rights.
Sales and Use Tax – Sales and use tax provided 64.8% and 60.4% of RTD’s total revenues in 2018 and 2017 respectively. Sales and use
tax is a dedicated 1.0% tax imposed on certain sales within the service area. Sales and use tax increased $36,005 (6.0%) in 2018 compared
to an increase of $34,589 (6.1%) in 2017. In 2018 and 2017, the District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased consumer
and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth of 1.4% and 1.4%, low unemployment of 3.3%
and 2.7% as well as growth in personal income of 5.4% and 5.8%, respectively.
Grant operating assistance – Grant operating assistance provided 8.8% and 8.1% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017. Grant operating
assistance increased $5,991 (7.5%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $3,077 (4.0%) in 2017. The operating assistance is a federal grant
revenue program used to perform capital maintenance and maintain RTD’s revenue fleet of bus, paratransit, and rail vehicles. The increase
in both 2018 and 2017 is the result of grant funding sources being available during the year.
Investment Income – Investment income provided 1.4% and 6.4% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017. Investment income decreased
$49,621 (78.7%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $56,659 (889.3%) in 2017. The decrease in 2018 was due to the 2017 gain from
extinguishment of debt. The increase in 2017 was due to the gain from extinguishment of DUSPA Bonds.
Other Income/Gain on sale of Assets – Other income provided 1.3% and 1.5% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017. Other income
decreased $2,000 (13.7%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $973 (6.2%) in 2017. Other income includes interest subsidy income, rental
income from retail space, parking, and miscellaneous other items. The decrease in 2018 was due to a onetime gain on asset disposals in
2017. The decrease in 2017 was due to reduction of asset sales, which was primarily attributable to the sale of three Fort Lupton parcels
sold in 2016.

28
Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Capital grants
and local
contributions
8.3%

Capital grants and local contributions – Capital grants and local contributions provided 8.3% and 8.7% of total revenues in 2018 and
2017. Capital grants and local contributions decreased $5,393 (6.2%) in 2018 and decreased $115,840 (57.3%) in the previous year. The
decrease in 2018 and 2017 was a result of lower capital contributions related to completion of major construction projects.
Expenses - The following schedule and charts shows the major sources of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016.
Expense Analysis
Expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Interest expense
Other expense/loss on capital Assets
Total Expenses

2018

2017

2016

$

183,899
52,993
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
285,653
62,770
1,465

$

172,535
91,442
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213
248,633
65,346
2,981

$

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
77,272
1,258

$

928,393

$

898,861

$

860,141

Expense Analysis
$300,000
$250,000
$200,000
$150,000
$100,000
$50,000
$-

2018

2017

2016

29
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Other
expense/loss
on capital
Assets
0.1%
Interest
expense
6.8%

2018 Expenses

Salaries and
wages
19.8%

Other expense
.2%

Fringe
benefits
5.7%

Depreciation
30.8%

Materials and
supplies
5.5%

Miscellaneous
0.5%
Leases and
rentals
Purchased
0.2% transportation
19.0%

Services
8.7%
Utilities
Insurance
1.8%
1.1%

2017 Expenses

Interest
expense
7.3%

Salaries and
wages
19.2%
Fringe
benefits
10.2%

Depreciation
27.7%

Materials and
supplies
5.0%

Miscellaneous
0.5%
Leases and
rentals Purchased
0.3% transportation
17.7%

Insurance
1.5%

Utilities
1.8%

Services
8.6%

Salaries and wages–Salary and wage expense is the largest expense category accounting for 19.8% and 19.2% of the total RTD expenses
in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Salary and wage expenses increased by $11,364 (6.6%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $8,885
(5.4%) in 2017. Increases in both years occurred from salary and wage performance (result based) and progression increases, and additional
service provided with the openings of new rail lines.
Benefits – Fringe benefits accounted for 5.7% and 10.2% of total expenses in 2018 and 2017. Fringe benefits decreased by $38,449
(42.0%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $4,947 (5.1%) in 2017. The fluctuations for both 2018 and 2017 is primarily due to
implementation GASB Statement Nos. 68 and 71 establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities.
Materials and supplies – The materials and supplies expense category accounted for 5.5% and 5.0% of the total expenses in 2018 and
2017 respectively. Materials and supplies expenses increased $6,649 (14.9%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $7,494 (14.4%) in 2017.
The increase in 2018 is primarily due to higher diesel fuel and gas prices. The decrease in 2017 is primarily due to a decrease in
diesel/gasoline fuel prices.
Services – Services expense accounted for 8.7% and 8.6% of total expenses in 2018 and 2017. Services expense includes contracted
services such as security services; vehicle, equipment and right of way maintenance services; advertising and marketing services, and legal
services. Services expense increased $3,866 (5.0%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $18,763 (32.0%) in 2017. The increase in 2018
contractual increases and additional security services. The increase in 2017 was primarily due to contract services for betterments for
North Metro Rail and South East Extension projects.
Utilities – Utilities accounted for 1.8% of total expenses for both years 2018 and 2017. Utilities expense includes electric,
telecommunications, water and sewer, and natural gas for facilities. Utilities expense decreased $84 (0.5%) in 2018 compared to an increase
of $2,283 (16.1%) in 2017. The decrease in 2018 was negligible. The increase in 2017 occurred primarily due to traction power costs due
to the opening of the University of Colorado A line and the B Line commuter rail.
Insurance – Insurance accounted for 1.1% and 1.5% of total expenses in 2018 and 2017. Insurance expense includes RTD’s self-insured
cost for general liability and worker’s compensation claims. In addition, RTD purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets. Insurance
expense decreased $3,378 (25.4%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $2,937 (28.3%). The variation in both years 2018 and 2017 was
due fluctuating frequency and severity of claims.

30
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Purchased transportation – The purchased transportation expense category accounted for 19.0% and 17.7% of the total expenses in
2018 and 2017. Purchased transportation represents the costs of contracted transportation services for bus, commuter rail, access-a-Ride,
and FlexRide services. Purchased transportation costs increased $17,365 (10.9%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $2,446 (1.6%) in
2017. The increase in 2018 was due to a higher scheduled payments to DTP included TABOR as well as contractual increases. The increase
in 2017 was due to contractual increases.
Leases and rentals – Leases and rentals include lease expense for office space, office equipment, park-n-Ride facilities, and use of
communication towers. Leases and rentals expense decreased $833 (29.4%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $459 (14.0%) in 2017.
The decrease in 2018 and 2017 was primarily due to RTD’s reduction of office space due to completion of FastTracks projects.
Miscellaneous – Miscellaneous expense includes other incidental operating expenses not included in other defined categories.
Miscellaneous expenses increased $104 (2.5%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $30 (0.7%) in 2017. This category includes additional
one-time project expenses creating fluctuations between years.
Depreciation – The depreciation expense category accounted for 30.8% and 27.7% of the total expenses in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Depreciation expense is a non-cash systematic allocation of the cost of capital assets over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Depreciation expense increased $37,020 (14.9%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $26,479 (11.9%) in 2017. The increase in both 2018
and 2017 occurred primarily due to the FasTracks assets that were placed in revenue service.
Interest expense – The interest expense category accounted for 6.8% and 7.3% of the total expenses in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Interest expense decreased $2,576 (3.9%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $11,926 (15.4%) in 2017. The decrease in 2018 is due to
reduced principal resulting in decrease in interest expense. The decrease in 2017 interest expense is due to partial refunding of Sale Tax
Bonds, Certificates of Participation and partial extinguishment and refunding of DUSPA bonds.
Other expense – Other expense includes miscellaneous non-operating expenses not classified in other expense categories. Other expense
decreased $1,516 (50.9%) in 2018 compared to an increase of $1,723 (137.0%) in 2017. The increase in 2017 was primarily due to
issuance costs for 2017A/2017B Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds while there were no issuance costs in 2018.
Capital Assets – Investments in capital assets include: land and rights-of-way; buildings and improvements; leasehold improvements;
revenue and non-revenue vehicles; shop and service equipment; security and surveillance equipment; computer equipment; and furniture.
RTD’s investment in capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, in 2018 was $6,851,205 compared to $6,804,036 in 2017. The
increase in capital assets in 2018 was $47,169 (0.7%) compared to an increase of $202,106 (3.1%) in 2017. RTD acquires its assets with
sales and use tax revenues, farebox revenue, federal capital grants, and proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds and certificates of
participation. The increases during 2018 and 2017 were primarily due to the cost of planning, design and construction of FasTracks projects
and fleet acquisition.

31
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

Capital Assets (Net of Depreciation)
2018

2017

2016

Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress

$741,541
4,181,583
637,720
1,219,967
310,316
1,802,235

$742,384
3,979,316
604,642
1,216,116
289,390
1,749,244

$584,328
3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735
261,265
2,165,883

Total
Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Total accumulated depreciation
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
Capital assets, net

$8,893,362

$8,581,092

$8,160,534

1,133,755
243,160
475,388
189,854
2,042,157

966,442
227,186
426,462
156,966
1,777,056

825,669
210,577
377,217
145,051
1,558,514

4,307,429
$6,851,205

4,312,408
$6,804,036

3,851,809
$6,602,020

Major capital asset events during the 2018 fiscal year included the following:
FasTracks North Metro Corridor - The North Metro Corridor is an 18-mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and 162nd
Avenue, passing through Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn and unincorporated Adams County. A construction contract was
entered to complete the commuter rail line from DUS north to 124th Avenue by 2019 with an option to extend construction to 162nd Avenue
if additional funding is identified. In 2018, expenditures related to the North Metro Corridor were approximately $100,582.
East and Gold Line Public-Private Partnership (Eagle P3) RTD was selected for inclusion in the FTA Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program (Penta-P). In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private
partnership to design, build, finance, operate and maintain several of the transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program.
The Eagle P3 project is a $2,185,000 project that includes a Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East and Gold Line Corridors as well
as the Northwest Rail Electrified Segment. The Eagle P3 partnership was awarded to a concessionaire, Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
through a competitive bid process culminating in a contract price that was $305,000 below internal estimates. The project is expected to
be fully in revenue service in 2019.
The Eagle P3 project will be completed in two phases. Phase I includes the East Corridor, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and design
work for Phase II. Phase II includes the Gold Line Corridor and the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment. The Eagle P3 Project elements are
described below:
FasTracks East Corridor - The East Corridor is a 23.6-mile commuter rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Denver
International Airport. The East Corridor opened for revenue service in April 2016.

32
Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

The following table summarizes capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 with comparative
information for 2016.

FasTracks Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility - The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility is designed to service the four planned
commuter rail corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, North Metro, and Northwest Rail) included in the FasTracks plan. The Facility opened
in 2015.
FasTracks Gold Line Corridor - The Gold Line Corridor is an 11.2-mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station to the vicinity
of Ward Road, passing through northwest Denver, unincorporated Adams County, Arvada, and Wheat Ridge. The Gold Line is planned
to be open for revenue service in 2019.
FasTracks Northwest Electrified Rail Segment – The Northwest Rail Corridor, described previously, includes a project segment,
referred to as the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment, extending from Denver Union Station to Westminster. This segment opened for
revenue service in Summer 2016.
FasTracks I-225 Rail Line – The I-225 Rail Line is a 10.5-mile extension of RTD’s existing light rail line from the Southeast Line Nine Mile
Station to the East Line commuter rail transfer point near the intersection of Peoria Street and Smith Road. The project includes eight
stations and serves the Aurora City Center and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. This line opened for revenue service in February
2017.
FasTracks Southeast Rail Extension – The Southeast Rail Extension extends the popular Southeast Rail Line from Lincoln Station to the
new RidgeGate Parkway Interchange at I-25. The project will add 2.3 miles of light rail. New stations will be built at Sky Ridge Medical
Center, Lone Tree City Center and RidgeGate with a 1,300 space Park-n-Ride facility. In 2018, expenditures related to the Southeast Rail
Extension were $32,848. The project is expected to open for revenue service in 2019.
Additional information on RTD’s capital assets can be found in footnote D of this report.
Debt Administration
The following table summarizes outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 with comparative information for 2016.
Outstanding Debt
2018
Bonds and COPs payable:
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Total Principal
Issuance premiums and discounts
Debt net of issuance and refunding

$ 2,072,489
1,137,932
3,210,421
242,082
$ 3,452,503

2017
$

$

2,088,744
1,176,397
3,265,141
256,150
3,521,291

2016
$

$

2,190,533
1,199,275
3,389,808
224,800
3,614,608

Outstanding debt – Outstanding debt includes sales tax revenue bond, a Transportation Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan,
certificates of participation, and a Purchase and Assignment Agreement. The 2018 outstanding debt was $3,452,503 compared to
$3,521,291 in 2017. Outstanding debt decreased by $68,788 (2.0%) in 2018 and decreased by $93,317 (2.6%) in 2017. The decrease in
2017 is primarily due to refunding and extinguishment of DUSPA Bonds. The decrease in 2018 was due to payment of principal on
outstanding debt.
Sales tax revenue bonds – RTD issues sales tax revenue bonds to fund the acquisition and construction of assets. The sales tax
revenue bonds were $2,072,489 and $2,088,744 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The sales tax revenue bonds
decreased $16,255 (0.8%) in 2017 compared to a decrease of $101,789 (4.6%) in 2017. The decrease in 2018 was due to payment of
principal on outstanding debit. The decrease in 2017 is primarily due to refunding of DUSPA bonds.

33
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Certificates of participation - Certificates of participation relate to financial obligations issued by the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc.
(Authority), a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to
acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used by RTD. RTD leases the equipment acquired with the proceeds from the Certificates
under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own
debt. Certificates outstanding were $1,137,932 and $1,176,397 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Certificates
outstanding decreased $38,465 (3.3%) in 2018 compared to a decrease of $22,878 (1.9%) in 2017. The decrease in 2018 and 2017 is
due to principal payment reducing debt.
RTD maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor Corporation, Moody’s Investor Services, and Fitch Ratings. Credit ratings vary based
on the type of debt and the source of funds used for repayment.
RTD’s ratings are presented in the following table:
Rating
Agency
Standard
&Poor’s
Moody’s
Fitch

Base System Bonds 0.6%
Sales &Use Tax

FasTracks Bonds 0.4%
Sales& Use Tax

Certificates of Participation

AAA
Aa1
AA

AA+
Aa2
AA

A
Aa3
AA-

Additional information on RTD’s debt can be found in footnote E of this report.
Economic Factors and Subsequent Events after adoption of the 2018 Budget
RTD is dependent on sales and use taxes, which are the largest single source of revenue for RTD, representing 64.9% and 60.4% of the
total revenues in 2018 and 2017respectively. Sales and use tax revenues are affected by the local economy in which changes will affect
the level of funding available to RTD during its fiscal year.
RTD is dependent on passenger fares collected for transit services provided. Passenger fares accounted for 14.7% and 14.2% of total
revenues in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Passenger fare collections may be affected by fare levels charged by RTD.
RTD is dependent on federal and local grant funding as well as local capital contributions for both operations and capital expenditures.
Grants and local contributions provided 17.1% and 16.8% of total revenues in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Grant funding and local
capital contributions are only available for use by RTD for qualifying expenditures after appropriation is made by the awarding agency.
Each year, RTD proposes an Amended Budget at mid-year to the Board of Directors for appropriation in order to adjust revenue and
expenditures for the remainder of the fiscal year according to existing economic conditions and fiscal results. RTD may also present
budget amendments to the Board of Directors for approval at any time during the fiscal year to accommodate economic factors.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors approved the 2018 Amended Budget in which the primary changes driven by economic factors were
an increase in fuel prices and wage and contracted services that were driven higher due to the tight labor market and the rising cost of
living in the District.

34
Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

RTD is in various phases of construction and testing on the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE), the North Metro rail line and the Gold Line.
Each of these FasTracks projects is expected to open for revenue service during the next few years. Additional funding for other capital
projects within the FasTracks project scope have been deferred due to a lack of funding.
Requests for Information
This financial report is intended to provide an overview of RTD’s finances for those with an interest in this organization. Questions
concerning any information contained in this report may be directed to the Finance Division.

35
Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

36

Packet Pg. 61

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

37

Packet Pg. 62

2.11.A.a

2018
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable interest bearing investments (note B)
Receivables:
Sales tax
Other, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $384 and
$382 at December, 31 2018 and 2017, respectively
Grants
Inventories
Other current assets (note C)
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Total current assets
Noncurrent Assets:
Capital assets (note D):
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total capital assets
Less accumulated depreciation
Net capital assets

$

2017

260,906
67,503

$

252,595
2,860

113,329

106,224

15,534
16,279
31,103
86,146
124,222
107,530
822,552

18,224
42,449
33,193
53,626
209,834
60,346
779,351

741,541
4,181,583
637,720
1,219,967
310,316
1,802,235
8,893,362
(2,042,157)
6,851,205

742,384
3,979,316
604,642
1,216,116
289,390
1,749,244
8,581,092
(1,777,056)
6,804,036

76,027
70,356
146,383

126,424
136,869
263,293

Total noncurrent assets

6,997,588

7,067,329

Total assets

7,820,140

7,846,680

Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A and F)
Total deferred outflows of resources

36,547
44,192
80,739

40,721
54,317
95,038

Other Noncurrent Assets:
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - unrestricted (note B)
Total other noncurrent assets

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

38
Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

2018

2017

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Current portion of long-term debt payable from restricted assets (note E)
Accrued compensation (note F)
Accrued interest payable from restricted assets
Other accrued expenses
Total current liabilities

$

Noncurrent Liabilities:
Long-term debt, net (note E)
Net Pension Liability (note F)
Other liabilities (note E)
Total noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities

104,357
67,335
23,868
18,689
35,704
249,953

$

108,584
64,700
22,787
18,957
40,209
255,237

3,385,168
268,278
429,981
4,083,427

3,456,591
384,208
412,871
4,253,670

4,333,380

4,508,907

485

554

103,508

18,748

103,993

19,302

3,144,175
139,779
24,079
362,779
(207,306)

3,135,186
148,627
25,735
327,165
(223,204)

Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A and F)
Total deferred inflows of resources
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (note I)
Restricted debt service (note I)
Restricted TABOR (note I)
Restricted Other (note I)
Unrestricted net position (note I)
Total net position

$

3,463,506

$

3,413,509

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

39
Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION (CONTINUED)
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

2017

2018
OPERATING REVENUE:
Passenger fares
Advertising, rent, and other

$

Total operating revenue

143,231
7,535

$

140,217
7,159

150,766

147,376

183,899
52,993
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
285,653

172,535
91,442
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213
248,633

Total operating expenses

864,158

830,534

OPERATING LOSS

(713,392)

(683,158)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance (note A)
Investment income
Other income
Gain(Loss) on capital assets
Interest expense (note A)
Other expense

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(1,449)
(62,770)
(16)

598,187
80,412
63,030
10,596
4,022
(65,346)
(2,981)

Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

682,387

687,920

INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS

(31,005)

4,762

81,002

86,395

49,997

91,157

3,413,509

3,322,352

OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation

Capital grants and local contributions (note A)
INCREASE IN NET POSITION
NET POSITION,
beginning
g
g p ofp year
NET POSITION, end of year

$

3,463,506

$

3,413,509

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

40
Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:
Receipts from customers
Payments to suppliers
Payments to employees
Net cash used in operating activities

$

2017

148,935 $
(454,055)
(161,961)
(467,081)

161,562
(313,454)
(228,785)
(380,677)

86,403
627,087
12,618

80,412
593,941
10,596

726,108

684,949

Cash flows from capital and related financing activities:
Principal paid on long-term debt
Proceeds from issuance of debt
Issuance Premiums/Discounts
Capital grant funds and other contributions received
Proceeds from sale of assets
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
Cost of issuance
Interest paid on long-term debt

(64,700)
9,980
(14,068)
107,172
808
(267,869)
(126,143)

(489,841)
365,174
31,350
138,408
4,618
(384,965)
(2,979)
(142,867)

Net cash used in capital and
related financing activities

(354,820)

(481,102)

(58,123)
63,206
13,409

(132,279)
165,672
63,030

18,492

96,423

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

(77,301)

(80,407)

Cash and cash equivalents - January 1

462,429

542,836

385,128 $

462,429

Cash provided from noncapital financing activities:
Grant operating assistance
Sales and use tax collections
Other revenue
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities

Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments
Interest and dividends on investments
Net cash provided by investing activities

Cash and cash equivalents - December 31

$

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

41
Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2018

2.11.A.a

RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING LOSS TO NET CASH
USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating loss
Adjustment to reconcile operating loss to
net cash used in operating activities
Depreciation expense
Bad debt expense
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Decrease in other accounts receivable
Decrease in inventories
Increase in other current assets
Decrease in deferred outflow pension
Decrease/(increase) in accounts payable
Increase in accrued compensation and expenses
Decrease/(increase) in other accrued expenses
Increase in deferred inflow pension
Net cash used in operating activities

2018
$

$

RECONCILIATION OF CASH and CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Total cash and cash equivalents

$
$

2017

(713,392) $

(683,158)

285,653
(16)

248,633
(3)

2,690
2,090
(32,520)
10,125
(103,047)
1,081
(4,505)
84,760
(467,081) $

2,906
819
(39,984)
20,283
43,635
1,082
11,283
13,827
(380,677)

260,906 $
124,222
385,128 $

252,595
209,834
462,429

Noncash investing, capital and financing activities:
RTD had unrealized losses on investments of $28 and $46 for 2018
and 2017, respectively.
RTD received noncash local match contributions for federal grants
of $342 and $371 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.
RTD recognized deferred inflow/outflow for debt of $4 and ($8) for
2018 and 2017, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

42
Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

43

Packet Pg. 68

2.11.A.a

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) was created as a transportation planning agency, a political subdivision of
the State of Colorado, by an Act of the Colorado General Assembly (the Act), effective July 1969 (Title 32, Article 9,
C.R.S., 1973, as amended). In 1974, the Act was amended and RTD became an operating entity charged with the
responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of a public mass transportation system for the benefit of
the citizens of the District. The District is comprised of 15 separate districts located in Denver, Boulder, Broomfield
and Jefferson counties, and certain portions of Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld counties.
RTD is governed by a publicly elected board of directors consisting of 15 members. Each board member is elected to
serve a term of four years by the constituents of the district in which the board member resides. As required by Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), these financial statements present RTD and its component unit. The
component unit discussed in note A.2 is included in the RTD’s reporting entity because of the significance of its
operational or financial relationship with the District.
In 1988, a Senate Bill was enacted (privatization legislation) requiring RTD to implement by March 31, 1989, a plan to
competitively bid contracts for the provision of at least 20% of RTD’s bus service by private contractors. In 1999, the
Bill was amended requiring RTD to increase this provision to at least 35% of fixed route bus service. In 2003, the Bill
was amended to require that at least 50% of RTD’s vehicular service be operated by private transit companies. In May
of 2007, the legislation was amended to provide for “a system under which up to 58% of the District’s service” is
provided by private contractors.
2. Financial Reporting Entity – Blended Component Unit
The Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority) was formed in 1987 as a nonprofit corporation on behalf of RTD
for the purpose of issuing certificates of participation in a public offering collateralized by an installment purchase
agreement with RTD. RTD’s General Manager appoints the Board of Directors of the Authority. The Authority serves
as a financing mechanism for various financing arrangements for RTD. RTD follows pronouncements 14 and 61 issued
by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board which provides guidance regarding the inclusion of component units
in the primary government’s financial statement presentation. The activity related to the underlying financial obligations
of the Authority has been included as a blended component unit in RTD’s financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017. No separately audited financial statements are prepared for the Authority.
3. Basis of Accounting
The accounts of RTD are reported as a Proprietary Fund. Proprietary funds are accounted for on the flow of economic
resources measurement focus and use the accrual basis of accounting which reports all assets, deferred outflows of
resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Revenue is recognized when
earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred. Proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues
and expenses from non-operating items. Operating revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and
producing and delivering goods in connection with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing operations. The principal
operating revenues of RTD are charges to customers for services. Operating expenses include the cost of services,
administrative expenses and asset depreciation. All revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as
non-operating revenues and expenses.
It is RTD’s policy to apply GAAP in its presentation of financial statements. When both restricted and unrestricted
resources are available for use, it is RTD’s policy to use restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they
are needed.

44

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

1. Organization

2.11.A.a

RTD considers all highly liquid investments, both restricted and unrestricted, with an original maturity of three months
or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
5. Interest Bearing Investments
Investments with a maturity date, when purchased, of less than one year are carried at cost or amortized cost which
approximates fair value. Investments with a maturity date of more than one year from the date of purchase are carried
at fair value.
6. Inventories
Inventories consist primarily of materials and supplies used in the ordinary course of operations. Materials and supplies
are stated at cost using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.
7. Other Current Assets
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are recorded as prepaid items.
Escrows are deposits held in escrow during the period of construction. At the time projects are completed, escrows
are generally applied toward the cost of the project or may be forfeited by RTD upon breach of contract.
8. Receivables
Accounts receivable are stated at the amount management expects to collect from outstanding balances. Management
provides for probable uncollected amounts through a charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation allowance based on
its assessment of the current status of individual accounts. Balances that are still outstanding after management has
used reasonable collection efforts are written off through a charge to the valuation allowance and a credit to accounts
receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have not been material to the consolidated financial statements.
9. Restricted Assets
Restricted assets are assets restricted by the covenants of long-term financial arrangements.
10. Capital Assets
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost. Capital assets are defined by RTD as assets with an initial,
individual cost of more than $5 and an estimated useful life in excess of one year. Maintenance and repairs are charged
to current period operating expenses and improvements are capitalized. Upon retirement or other disposition of property
and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts and any gains
or losses are included in non-operating revenue and expense. A pro rata share of proceeds from the sale of property and
equipment, which were acquired with federal funds, is required to be invested in a similar asset.
Interest is capitalized on assets financed with debt or certificates of participation from the date of the borrowing until
completion of the project. The amount of tax-exempt and taxable debt and certificates of participation (externally
restricted) interest to be capitalized is the difference between the interest expense and interest earnings on issuance
proceeds. The amount of other interest to be capitalized is calculated by weighted average construction expenditures
multiplied by the weighted average interest rate of the outstanding obligations.

45

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

4. Cash Equivalents

2.11.A.a

2018
Interest expense
Capitalized interest
Total interest cost

$

2017

62,770
67,211

$ 129,981

$

65,346
66,279

$ 131,625

11. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, which are as follows:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment

10–20 years
30 years
8–25 years
3–10 years

Fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, are included in the asset balances in the accompanying financial
statements. The cost of fully depreciated assets was approximately $378,780 and $350,394 at December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively.
12. Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources
In addition to assets, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred outflow
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of
net position that applies to a future period(s) and thus, will not be recognized as an outflow of resources
(expense/expenditure) until then.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred inflows
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents an acquisition of net
position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that
time.
13. Compensated Absences
RTD employees receive compensation for vacations, holidays, illness, and certain other qualifying absences. The
number of days compensated in the various categories of absence is based generally on length of service. Compensated
absences, which have been earned but not paid, have been accrued in the accompanying financial statements.
14. Self-Insurance
Liabilities for property damage and personal injury are recognized as incurred on the basis of the estimated cost to RTD.
In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are
recognized as they are incurred.

46

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Total interest cost of RTD consisted of the following as of December 31:

2.11.A.a

15. Revenue Recognition
Passenger fares are recorded as revenue at the time services are performed and revenue is collected from the farebox.
Sales of monthly passes are recorded initially as unearned revenue and recognized as income at the end of the month
for which the pass is used. Sale of MyRide stored value, Mobile ticketing products, ten ride and day pass tickets are
recorded as income at the time of sale. Sales of college based passes, which are valid for a specific academic semester,
are recorded initially as unearned revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the amount
recognized in each month determined by prorating the total contract amount over the semesters/quarters covered. Sales
of Eco Pass and Neighborhood Pass, which are valid through December 31 of a given year, are recorded initially as
unearned revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the total contract amount prorated
evenly over the number of months of the contract.
Sales and Use Taxes
Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, RTD levies a sales tax of 1.0% on net taxable sales made within the
District and a use tax of 1.0% on items purchased for use inside the District. As described in Note E, under the terms
of the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A, Series 2010A, Series 2010B, Series 2012A, Series 2013A, 2016A,
2017A and 2017 B bond resolutions, and TIFIA Sales Tax Loan and Series 2016A, sales and use tax revenue is pledged
for payment of debt service. Sales and use taxes are collected by the State of Colorado, Department of Revenue and
are remitted to a trustee who satisfies debt service from the collections, as required under RTD’s bond resolutions, and
remits the balance to RTD.
Sales and use taxes are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month collected by the merchant. Sales and Use Tax Bonds
debt service will be paid from the collateralized sales and use tax revenues in the amount of approximately $3,839,274
through 2050. Principal and interest paid for the current year and pledged revenues received were $112,777.
Grants and Local Contributions
RTD receives grants from the federal government, through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). Grants are also
awarded to RTD by state of Colorado through the Colorado Department of Transportation. The federal and state
governments issue grants to RTD for operations and acquisition of property and equipment.
The amount recorded as capital grant revenue was $52,229 and $75,500 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating
assistance grant revenue was $86,403 and $80,412 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other contribution revenue was
$28,773 and $10,895 in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Grants and local contributions are recorded as revenue by RTD once all applicable eligibility requirements are met.
16. Use of Estimates
The financial statements contained herein have been prepared in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). GAAP are uniform minimum standards of and guidelines to financial accounting and reporting. GAAP
establishes appropriate measurement and classification criteria for financial reporting. Adherence to GAAP provides a
reasonable degree of comparability among the financial reports of state and local governmental units. The preparation
of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves the use of management’s estimates. These estimates are
based upon management’s best judgments, after considering past and current events and assumptions about future
events. Actual results may differ from estimates.
17. Pensions
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position and additions

47

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Passenger Fares

2.11.A.a

18. TABOR (Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights) – Reserve Composition
Restricted net position represents amounts constrained by external parties or legislation. In 1992, Colorado voters
approved an amendment to the state constitution referred to as the TABOR (Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights) Amendment in
which certain annual limitations were placed on the growth of government revenues. The Amendment also requires
that an Emergency Reserve, referred to as Restricted TABOR, of 3.0% of fiscal year spending excluding debt service
be maintained for all years subsequent to 1994 for declared emergencies.

48

Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

to/deductions from the plan’s fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by
the plan. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due and
payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.

2.11.A.a

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
RTD’s deposits are subject to the State of Colorado’s Public Deposit Protection Act (PDPA). Under this act, all uninsured
public deposits at qualified institutions are fully collateralized with pledged collateral which is held in custody by any Federal
Reserve Bank or branch thereof, or held in escrow by some other bank in a manner as the banking Commissioner shall
prescribe by rule and regulation, or may be segregated from the other assets of the eligible public depository and held in its
own trust department. Colorado’s PDPA requires that pledged collateral to be held is clearly identified as being security
maintained or pledged for the aggregate amount of public deposits accepted and held on deposit by the eligible public
depository. The depository has the right at any time to make substitutions of eligible collateral maintained or pledged and is
at all times entitled to collect and retain all income derived from those investments without restrictions.
As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, RTD had bank deposits of $33,514 and $5,191 collateralized with
securities held by the pledging financial institutions’ trust department or agent but not in RTD’s name.
Investments
At December 31, 2018, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Corporate bonds
Total

$

$

Fair Value
<6 Months
6-12 Months
1-5 Years
265,859 $
50,778 $ 106,318 $
108,763
35,445
8,262
559
26,624
683
339
144
200
19,429
2,994
5,639
10,796
321,416 $
62,373 $ 112,660 $
146,383

At December 31, 2017, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Corporate bonds
Total

$

$

Fair Value
<6 Months
6-12 Months
1-5 Years
255,483 $
16,626 $
35,081 $
203,776
43,332
170
43,162
2,716
434
1,596
686
24,968
8,980
319
15,669
326,499 $
26,210 $
36,996 $
263,293

Interest Rate Risk, as a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses arising from rising interest rates, RTD’s
investment policy limits maturities of individual investment securities to 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by RTD’s
Board of Directors.
Credit Risk, investment transactions are made in accordance with the Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) 24-75-601, et seq.
The types of investments, which are authorized by RTD’s internal investment policy, include the following:
Obligations of the United States government.
Obligations of the United States government agencies and United States government sponsored corporations.
Municipal notes or bonds that are an obligation of any state of the United States.
Corporate Bonds that are an obligation of corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the United
States.
5. Commercial paper.

1.
2.
3.
4.

49

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Deposits

6. Time Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposits.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances Notes.
8. Repurchase agreements.
9. Money market funds.
10. Local government Investment Pools.
11. Any other Investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et seq.
Credit ratings of RTD’s portfolio, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are exhibited in the table below. Portfolio holdings
adhere to RTD’s investment policy and applicable statute. Investments rated AAA, AA and A are from the Standard &
Poor’s rating service. Investments rated A-1+/P-1 are from the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating services, respectively.
At December 31, 2018, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
Total:

Market Value
$
304,628
11,767
5,021
$
321,416

At December 31, 2017, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
Total:

Market Value
304,503
21,422
574
$
326,499
$

Concentration of Credit Risk, it is the policy of RTD to diversify its investment portfolio. Assets held in the investment
funds shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a
specific issue or a specific class of securities. The asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible, depending
upon the outlook for the economy and the securities markets.
RTD’s investment policy outlines the following maximum exposure limits for unrestricted investments. As of December 31,
2018, RTD was in compliance with these limits. As of December 31, 2017, RTD was in compliance with limitations set
out in RTD’s previous investment policy limitations.

50

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S Agencies 1
Municipal Bonds of a
Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds of a
non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds, Short
Term
Pre-Refunded Muni Bonds
Corporate bonds
Commercial Paper
Time Deposits/CD
Bankers Acceptances
Repurchase agreements
Local Government Investment Pools
Money market funds

Maximum
Portfolio %
100%
75%
20%

Maximum
Issue %
100%
25%
3%

Maturity
Restrictions
5 years
5 years
5 years

Rating
Restrictions
N/A
AA
A

20%

3%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

5 years

“A-1 or “MIG 1”

40%
20%
40%
10%
20%
50%
100%
100%

5%
3%
3%
3%
3%
10%
50%
50%

3 years
3 years
270 days
1 year
1 year
90 days
N/A
N/A

AA
AA
A-1/P1/F1
AA
AA
AA
AAAm/AAAf
AAAm

1

In the event that one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agency rates such Agency obligations below the highest rating category, but no
lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD’s funds may continue to be invested in Agencies if such investments satisfy the requirements
of CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) which limits the maturity from the date of settlement to three years, provided that the book value limits of CRS 24.75.601.1
(m) (II) shall not apply. Rather, the diversification limit shall be set as follows: no more than 75% of the portfolio may be invested in Agencies, with any
more than 25% being invested in any one Agency.

Proceeds from the issuance of RTD’s obligations are invested in accordance with legal documentation governing the
transaction, notwithstanding any provisions of RTD’s investment policy to the contrary, and do not fall within the maximum
exposure limits listed above.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, RTD had $307,779 and $396,604 of cash and investments that were restricted under the
provisions of bond agreements.
Fair Value Measurements
In March 2015, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) released Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurement
and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is enhance comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets
and liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures
to provide comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a
government's financial position.
Level 1 - Unadjusted quoted prices in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the District has the ability to
access at the measurement date. Examples derived from NYSE, NASDAQ, Chicage Board of Trade, Pink Sheets.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices under Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly
on the measurement date. Examples include Matrix pricing, market corroborated pricing; inputs such as yield curves and
indices.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value that rely on the reporting entity's reasonably
available information concerning the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including

51

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

assumptions about risk. Examples include investment Manager Pricing for Private Placement, Private Equities, and Hedge
Funds.

Valuation Inputs
Level 1
Level 2
- $
265,859 $
35,445
683
19,429
- $
321,416 $

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Corporate bonds

$

Total

$

Level 3
- $
- $

Total
265,859
35,445
683
19,429
321,416

Level 3
- $
-

Total
255,483
43,332
2,716
24,968

- $

326,499

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2018:

Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2017:
Valuation Inputs
Level 1
Level 2
- $
255,483 $
43,332
2,716
24,968

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Corporate bonds
p

$

Total

$

- $

326,499 $

NOTE C - OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
Other Current Assets consist of:
2018
Prepaid expenses
Prepaid Secure Tabor Interest
Eagle P3 construction escrow
Park Creek Metro escrow
Other constuction escrow
Assets held for sale
Total Other Current Assets

$

6,500
72,521
5,088
227
155
1,655
86,146

$

52

2017
$

$

5,494
40,954
5,088
280
155
1,655
53,626

Packet Pg. 77

2.11.A.a

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2018 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
12/31/2017
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated
Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total accumulated depreciation
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
Capital assets, net

$

742,384
1,749,244

$

34
335,080

Balances
12/31/2018

Deletions

$

877
282,089

$

741,541
1,802,235

2,491,628

335,114

282,966

2,543,776

3,979,316
604,642
1,216,116

202,275
35,671
21,991

8
2,593
18,140

4,181,583
637,720
1,219,967

289,390

22,118

1,192

310,316

6,089,464

282,055

21,933

6,349,586

966,442
227,186
426,462

167,317
17,861
66,410

4
1,887
17,484

1,133,755
243,160
475,388

156,966
1,777,056

34,065
285,653

1,177
20,552

189,854
2,042,157

4,312,408
6,804,036

$

(3,598)
331,516

$

1,381
284,347

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS

$

4,307,429
6,851,205

Depreciation expense was $285,653 and $248,633 for years 2018 and 2017, respectively.

53

Packet Pg. 78

2.11.A.a

Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

584,328
2,165,883

$

158,361
451,245

Balances
12/31/2017

Deletions

$

305
867,884

$

742,384
1,749,244

2,750,211

609,606

868,189

2,491,628

3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735

579,565
(1,328) *
97,232

4,771
831
18,851

3,979,316
604,642
1,216,116

261,265

34,053

5,928

289,390

5,410,323

709,522

30,381

6,089,464

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
825,669
145,544
4,771
Buildings
210,577
17,222
613
Revenue earning equipment
377,217
68,039
18,794
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
145,051
17,828
5,913
Total accumulated depreciation
1,558,514
248,633
30,091
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
3,851,809
460,889
290
Capital assets, net
$
6,602,020
$
1,070,495
$
868,479
*Building Additions ($1,328) is a result of reclass to Shop, maintenance and other equipment.
Depreciation expense was $248,633 and $222,154 for years 2017 and 2016, respectively.

54

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2017 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
12/31/2016
Additions

966,442
227,186
426,462
156,966
1,777,056

$

4,312,408
6,804,036

Packet Pg. 79

2.11.A.a

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT
2018

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially
on November 1 of 2030 through 2035, issued with a coupon of 4.50% payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including discount of ($559)
and ($593) for 2018 and 2017, respectively. In 2014, The District did a partial
Modification and Exchange on these Bonds, it resulted in a premium with an ending
balance of $13,888 and $14,667 for 2018 and 2017, respectively. Furthermore, In
2017, The District did another partial Modification and Exchange on these Bonds, it
resulted in a premium with an ending balance of $16,958 and $17,909 for 2018
and 2017, respectively.

$

250,767

2017
$

252,463

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on
November 1 of each year through 2024, issued with a 5.25% coupon, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $3,260
and $3,819 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

61,695

73,644

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on
November 1 of 2037 and 2038, issued with coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of $1,771 and $1.860
for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

80,911

81,000

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds Taxable (Direct Pay Build America
Bonds), Series 2010B, due serially on November 1 of 2046 through 2050, issued
with coupon of 5.844%, payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each
year.

300,000

300,000

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A, due serially on
November 1 of 2023 and 2037, issued with coupon of 3.0% and 5.0%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of
$53,625 and $56,472 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

528,560

531,407

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on
November 1 of 2013 and 2021, issued with coupon of .25% and 2.207%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $206
and $279 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

14,206

27,149

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially
on November 1 of 2027 and 2036, issued with coupon of 4.25% and 5.0%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of
$34,824 and $36,776 for 2018 and 2017, respectively

239,644

241,596

TIFIA Sales Tax FasTracks Loan, due on May 1 of 2025 thru 2045, loaned with
coupon of 3.14% and interest capitalized thru November 1, 2020. Payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year from 2021 thru 2045.

325,328

315,349

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A, due serially on
November 1 of 2036 and 2046, issued with a coupon of 5.0%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of
$32,639 and $33,812 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

227,604

228,777

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2017A, due serially on
November 1 of each thru 2040, issued with a coupon between 3.625% to 5.0%,
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of
$ 10,611 and $11,097 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

91,531

93,992

55

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of December 31:

Packet Pg. 80

2.11.A.a

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2017B, due serially on
November 1 of 2033 thru 2036, issued with a coupon between 4.0% to 5.0%,
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of
and $20,134 and $21,263 for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

$

139,599

2017
$

140,728

Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding Obligations, Series
2007A, under a lease agreement for acquisition of transit buses and vehicles,
payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2021, issued with a
5.535% coupon.

4,815

6,255

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2010A, under a lease
purchase agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles, construct, install and
improve certain equipment and other capital projects. Payments are due
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2031, issued with coupons between
5.00% and 5.50%, including premium of $749 and $863 for 2018 and 2017,
respectively.

101,679

109,518

Certificates of Participation Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Obligations, Series 2010B, under a lease purchase agreement for acquisition of
light rail vehicles, construct, install and improve certain equipment and other capital
projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 through 2040,
issued with a coupon of 7.672%.

100,000

100,000

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2013A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 to 2027, issued with coupons between 2.00% and
5.00%, including premium of $22,074 and $24,698 for 2018 and 2017,
respectively.

180,779

200,663

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2014A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 to 2044, issued with coupons between 4.125% and
5.00%, including premium of $22,595 and $22,444 for 2018 and 2017,
respectively.

462,510

463,359

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2015A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 to 2040, issued with coupons between 3.25% and
5.00%, including premium of $10,307 and $10,782 for 2018 and 2017,
respectively.

139,222

139,698

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Purchase and Assignment (2016) Agreement,
Refunding Project of the 2002A COP's, as Lessee Under an Annually Renewable
Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 to 2022, issued with a coupon of 1.903%.

50,513

62,553

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Purchase and Assignment (2017) Agreement,
Partial Refunding Projects of the 2010A COP's and 2015A COP's, as Lessee
Under an Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2025, issued with a coupon of 2.437%.

153,140

153,140

Total

3,452,503

3,521,291

(67,335)

(64,700)

$ 3,385,168

$ 3,456,591

Less current portion
Total Long-Term Debt

56

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2018

Packet Pg. 81

2.11.A.a

Year ending December 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024-2028
2029-2033
2034-2038
2039-2043
2044-2048
2049-2050

$

$

Principal
18,715 $
19,475
14,795
10,675
30,975
299,593
458,469
463,153
322,456
322,731
130,575
2,091,612 $

TIFIA
Capitalized
Interest
- $
3,824
9,562
5,737
19,123 $

Interest
85,662 $
84,906
94,835
94,099
93,545
438,896
346,883
240,260
143,205
94,689
11,558
1,728,538 $

Total
104,377
104,381
109,630
104,774
124,520
742,313
814,914
709,150
465,661
417,420
142,133
3,839,273

Certificates of Participation are issued by Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc., a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued
Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used
by RTD as well as for construction of the North Metro commuter rail line. RTD leases the equipment acquired and elements
constructed with the proceeds from the Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. In 2016, RTD refund
Series 2002A Certificates with a capital lease agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. In 2017, RTD refund portions of
previously outstanding Series 2010A and Series 2015A with a Capital Lease Agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates and the Capital Lease Agreements as its own obligations.
Annual repayment requirements on the Certificates and Capital Lease Agreements to maturity are as follows:

Year ending December 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024-2028
2029-2033
2034-2038
2039-2043
2044

$

$

Principal
Interest
48,620 $
51,941 $
58,653
49,711
63,756
47,489
61,993
45,520
63,515
43,371
269,135
179,072
177,450
129,013
194,285
75,030
168,770
26,615
31,755
760
1,137,932 $
648,522 $

57

Total
100,561
108,364
111,245
107,513
106,886
448,207
306,463
269,315
195,385
32,515
1,786,454

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

The Sales Tax Revenue Bonds and the TIFIA loan are payable from and secured by RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is
required to maintain certain minimum deposits, as defined in the Indenture of Trust, to meet debt service requirements. Sales
Tax Revenue Bonds debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:

2.11.A.a

Changes in Long-Term Liabilities

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
Net Pension Liability
Other liabilities*
Total long-term liabilities

Due Within
Balance
Balance
12/31/2017
Additions
Reductions
12/31/2018
One Year
$
2,088,744 $
9,980 $
26,235 $
2,072,489 $
18,715
48,620
1,137,932
38,465
1,176,397
242,082
14,068
256,150
3,521,291
9,980
78,768
3,452,503
67,335
384,208
115,930
268,278
412,871
17,110
429,981
$
4,318,370 $
27,090 $
194,698 $
4,150,762 $
67,335

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the CCD Aviation
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2017, was as follows:
Balance
Balance
Due Within
12/31/2016
Reductions
12/31/2017
Additions
One Year
2,088,744 $
26,235
$
2,190,533 $
313,823 $
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
212,034 $
1,176,397
38,465
Certificates of Participation
1,199,275
153,140
176,018
Issuance premiums and discounts
224,800
13,706
256,150
45,056
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
3,614,608
410,230
503,547
3,521,291
64,700
Net Pension Liability
390,058
6,403
12,253
384,208
412,871
Other liabilities*
366,694
46,177
4,318,370 $
64,700
Total long-term liabilities**
$
4,371,360 $
491,294 $
462,810 $
*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the CCD Aviation
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). ** Beginning year balance (as restated).

In prior years, RTD defeased certain obligations by placing the proceeds of new obligations in an irrevocable trust to provide
for all future service payments on the old obligations. Accordingly, the trust account assets and the liability for the defeased
obligations are not included in these financial statements. Outstanding as of December 31, 2018 are the following amounts,
which are considered defeased:
2010A COP’s and 2015A COP’s Escrow – Light Rail Vehicles and Maintenance Facility $148,778
In January 2017, RTD issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2017A in the par amount of $82,895
for the purpose of restructuring its previously outstanding Subordinate Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010 and
paying related costs of issuance. The transaction achieved a 55.1% net present value savings and $134,116 of gross cash
flow savings between 2017 and 2040 while retaining the same final maturity of 2040.
In May 2017, RTD entered a Modification and Exchange agreement with Citibank N.A. who owned certain of the RTD Sales
Tax Revenue Refunding bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A. The agreement modified the call dates on the affected
bonds from November 12, 2024 and made the bonds non-callable. The affected bonds, which were all owned by Citibank N.A.,
were as follows:

58

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2018, was as follows:

Series
2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A
2007A

Maturity Date
(November 1)
2030
2031
2032
2033
2035

Par Amount
Prior to 2017
Modification
$
56,375
33,915
36,535
34,000
60,000

Par Amount
After 2017
Modification
$
56,265
33,800
36,451
34,000
60,000

Coupon
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%
4.5%

CUSIP
CUSIP
Prior to 2017 After 2017
Modificaiton Modificaiton
759136SQ8 759136UG7
759136UH5 759136UH5
759136UJ1 759136UJ1
759136ST2 759136UK8
759136SV7 759136UM4

Original
Call Date
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024
11/1/2024

Modified
Date
Non-Call
Non-Call
Non-Call
Non-Call
Non-Call

The 2007A bonds that are not owned by Citibank N.A. were not affected by these Modification and Exchange agreement. Net
proceeds of the agreement are $17,135. RTD did not accrue any arbitrage liability from this transaction.
In June 2017, RTD issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2017B in the par amount of $119,465 for
partially refunding its previously outstanding Series 2007A bonds for interest expense savings. The transaction achieved a
12.6% net present value savings and $24,504 of gross cash flow savings between 2017 and 2036 while retaining the same
final maturity of 2036.
In July 2017, RTD entered a capital lease agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. to refund portions of its previously
outstanding Series 2010A and Series 2015 Certificates of Participation. Proceeds in the amount of $153,140 were placed in
escrow with UMB Bank and are being used for the purpose of advance refunding portions of the District’s Series 2010A and
2015A Certificates of Participation and paying related costs of issuance. The Series 2010A portion of this transaction
achieved a net present value savings of 4.4% and $7,339 in cash flow savings between 2017 and 2025. The Series 2015A
portion of this transaction achieved a Net present value savings of 4.2% and a cash flow savings of $5,238 between 2017
and 2025.

59

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS

RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans and one defined contribution plan for substantially all fulltime employees:
•
•
•

ATU 1001 Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Contribution

Plans are administered by a pension trust that issues audited financial statements, which include financial information for that
plan. Those financial statements may be obtained from the plan administrators:
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2018, is presented below:
Net Pension
Liability
Plan
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
241,090
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
27,188
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
268,278

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
12,611 $
94,709
6,727
8,799
$
19,338 $
103,508

Pension
Expense
$
(7,068)
11,575
4,246
$
8,753

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $19,754.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $5,100.

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2017, is presented below:
Net Pension
Liability
Plan
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
349,011
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
35,197
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
384,208

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
22,536 $
16,949
14,711
1,799
$
37,247 $
18,748

Pension
Expense
$
30,445
14,885
3,981
$
49,311

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $12,470.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $4,600.

60

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Employee Retirement Plans

2.11.A.a

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2018)

The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.
Death benefits state if an employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary.
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he or she has worked for at
least ten years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled
upon receipt of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to
qualify for a disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he or she had worked for at least ten
years in covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early
as age 50 if he or she has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after
attaining age 50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be
payable at any time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred
vested retirement disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.

61

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Plan Description

2.11.A.a

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,858
1,592
1,426

Total

4,876

1

Based on December 31, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 463,756
222,666

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

241,090
48.01%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
January 1, 2018
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of December 31st each year.
Actual contributions are made pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll
Remaining Amortization Period 30 years
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2014 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2014 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.
Other Information:
There were no benefit changes during the year.
Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount Rate that
reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s fiduciary net position
is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on an index of 20-year general
obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary
net position is not sufficient to pay benefits).

62

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

• The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

2.11.A.a

Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 7.00 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate 3.31 %
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected Real
Rate of Return
4%
6%
6%
1%
1%
5%
8%

Target Asset Allocation
30%
25%
5%
10%
10%
5%
15%

Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2017
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2018

63

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Total Pension
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
552,781 $
203,770

$

14,387
27,099
4,855
(108,133)
(27,233)
(89,025)
463,756

$

13,168
4,389
28,983
(27,233)
(411)
18,896
222,666

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
349,011

$

14,387
27,099
4,855
(108,133)
(13,168)
(4,389)
(28,983)
411
(107,921)
241,090

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

For the purpose of this valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate
is 3.31% (based on the daily rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the Fidelity “20-Year Municipal GO AA
Index”); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 7.00%.

2.11.A.a

Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 7.00%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is one percentage-point lower or one -percentage-point
higher:
1% Decrease
(6.00%)
$ 289,393

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

Current Discount
Rate (7.00%)
$ 241,090

1% Increase
(8.00%)
$ 199,993

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% plus $6,200 for years 2018 through 2020 and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s
qualifying wages. RTD has included the full amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented
pension plan, in accordance with financial reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under
the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2018 the employer recognized pension expense of $(7,068). The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
3,364
937
8,310
19,754
$
32,365

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions Subsequent to Measurement Date

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
1,198
81,454
12,057
$

94,709

$19,754 reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from the employer contributions subsequent
to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2019.
Other amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to pensions will be
recognized in pension expense a follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total

$

$

(37,268)
(31,041)
(10,776)
(3,013)
(82,098)

64

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption

2.11.A.a

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2017)

The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.
Death benefits state if an employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary.
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he or she has worked for at
least ten years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled
upon receipt of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to
qualify for a disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he or she had worked for at least ten
years in covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early
as age 50 if he or she has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after
attaining age 50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be
payable at any time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred
vested retirement disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.

65

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Plan Description

2.11.A.a

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 (December 31, 2016 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,849
1,531
1,328

Total

4,708

1

Based on December 31, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 552,781
203,770

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

349,011
36.86%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
January 1, 2017
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, closed
Remaining Amortization Period 30 years
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2014 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2014 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.
Other Information:
There were no benefit changes during the year.
Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount Rate that
reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s fiduciary net position
is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on an index of 20-year general

66

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

• The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

2.11.A.a

For the purpose of this valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate
is 3.78% (based on the daily rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the Fidelity “20-Year Municipal GO AA
Index”); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 4.96%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 4.96 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate 3.78 %
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected Real
Rate of Return
4%
10%
3%
1%
1%
4%
8%

Target Asset Allocation
35%
20%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2016
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2017

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
563,479

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
202,215

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
361,264

13,145
25,276
(3,164)
(19,822)
(26,133)
(10,698)
552,781

12,128
4,069
11,855
(26,133)
(364)
1,555
203,770

13,145
25,276
(3,164)
(19,822)
(12,128)
(4,069)
(11,855)
364
(12,253)
349,011

$

67

$

$

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary
net position is not sufficient to pay benefits).

2.11.A.a

Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 4.96%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is one percentage-point lower or one -percentage-point
higher:
1% Decrease
(3.96%)
$ 415,884

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

Current Discount
Rate (4.96%)
$ 349,011

1% Increase
(5.96%)
$ 293,038

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2017 the employer recognized pension expense of $30,445. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
9,990
12,546
12,470
$
35,006

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions Subsequent to Measurement Date

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
3,777
13,172
$

16,949

*The mortality assumptions were updated to RP-2014 blue-collar tables published by the Society of Actuaries with project scale MP-2017. This change
increased the liabilities by 3.113 million.

$12,470 reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from the employer contributions subsequent
to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2018.
Other amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to pensions will be
recognized in pension expense a follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Total

$

4,059
(2,544)
3,683
389
$ 5,587

68

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption

2.11.A.a

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2018)

The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If the employee
terminates from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60
and 65, and 1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is
average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.

69

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Plan Description

2.11.A.a

Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

291

Total

675

264
120

1

Based on January 1, 2017 actuarial valuation demographic information
2
Includes transfer outs

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 171,550
144,362

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

27,188
84.15%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2017, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2017 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
4.75% - 9.75%, based on age
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation.
Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target asset
allocation as of the December 31, 2017 (for disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018) are
summarized in the following data and reflect assumed long-term expected real rate of return over a 30-year horizon upon
which the disclosure is based:

70

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
7.9%
8.4%
4.4%
7.5%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
40%
25%
20%
15%
N/A

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables.
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2017 evaluation were based on the results of an actuarial experience study
covering the period January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2013.
Single Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions would be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The discount rate does not incorporate nor require a 20-year tax-exempt general obligation municipal bond rate (with an
average rating of AA/As or higher).
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following present the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as
what the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point
lower (6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 41,591

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 27,188

71

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ 14,668

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2017
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2018

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
$
130,956
166,153

$

3,201
12,351
(816)
(9,339)
5,397
171,550

4,600
18,322
(9,339)
(177)
13,406
144,362

$

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
35,197

$

3,201
12,351
(816)
(4,600)
(18,322)
177
(8,009)
27,188

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2018 the employer recognized pension expense of $11,575. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 2,387
266
4,074
5,100
$ 11,827

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions Subsequent to Measurement Date
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
502
8,297
$

8,799

$5,100 reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from the employer contributions subsequent
to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2019.
Other amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to pensions will be
recognized in pension expense a follows:
Year Ended,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total

$ 2,205
(352)
(2,187
(1,737
$ (2,071)

72

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2017)

The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If the employee
terminates from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60
and 65, and 1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is
average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.

73

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Plan Description

2.11.A.a

Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

327

Total

687

242
118

1

Based on January 1, 2017 actuarial valuation demographic information
2
Includes transfer outs

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 166,153
130,956

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

35,197
78.82%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2016, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2016 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
4.75% - 9.75%, based on age
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation.
Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target asset
allocation as of the December 31, 2016 (for disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017) are
summarized in the following data and reflect assumed long-term expected real rate of return over a 30-year horizon upon
which the disclosure is based:

74

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 (December 31, 2016 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
7.4%
7.4%
2.7%
8.5%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
40%
25%
20%
15%
N/A

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables.
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2016 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience study
covering the period January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2013.
Single Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions would be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The discount rate does not incorporate nor require a 20-year tax-exempt general obligation municipal bond rate (with an
average rating of AA/As or higher).
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following present the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as
what the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point
lower (6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 49,264

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 35,197

75

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ 22,981

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 100

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2016
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2017

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
$
122,777
151,571

$

3,587
11,371
6,716
(7,092)
14,582
166,153

4,100
11,337
(7,092)
(166)
8,179
130,956

$

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
28,794

$

3,587
11,371
6,716
(4,100)
(11,337)
166
6,403
35,197

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2017 the employer recognized pension expense of $14,885. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 6,208
2,378
6,125
4,600
$ 19,311

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions Subsequent to Measurement Date
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
1,799
$

1,799

*Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 (December 31, 2016 measurement date, January 1, 2016 actuarial valuation date):
the administrative expense assumption was updated from $165 per year, payable monthly, to $150 per year, payable monthly. The updated administrative
expense assumption is expected to be more reflective of future administrative expenses for the Plan. The administrative expense assumption is used for
determining the actuarially determined contribution and does not impact Total Pension Lability.

$4,600 reported as deferred outflows of resources related to pensions resulting from the employer contributions subsequent
to the measurement date will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2018.
Other amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflows of resources related to pensions will be
recognized in pension expense a follows:
Year Ended,
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Total

$ 7,533
4,256
1,573
(450)
$ 12,912

76

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 101

2.11.A.a

RTD Plan – Defined Contribution

The RTD defined contribution plan represents full-time salaried employees hired after January 1, 2008. The RTD Board adopted
amendment No. 8, effective January 1, 2008. RTD contributes 9% of the employee’s qualifying wage. Contributions totaled
$4,246 and $3,981 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. RTD employees cannot contribute to the Plan. Membership was 624 and
596 active employees in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
The Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust was formed pursuant to a Trust Agreement effective
July 1, 1971, between Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 (ATU 1001) and an agent of a transit enterprise owned by
the City and County of Denver, through July 3, 1974, and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) thereafter. In addition
to the original Denver Metro Division, employees of other RTD divisions have been approved for participation in the Trust
benefits. The Trust agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all its terms and provisions so long as there continues
to be a collective bargaining agreement between the Union and RTD.
The Trust provides health benefits (hospital, medical, dental, vision, life and short-term disability) for represented employees
of RTD and certain officers of ATU 1001 and health care benefits for retired employees actively working 600 hours or more
per quarter. The Trust is funded through contribution by the employer and employee, the share of benefit plan contributions is
set by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). RTD’s contribution was $19,797 and $19,065 the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Trust also provides insurance coverage for felonious assault for each
employee and funds the Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Legal Services Trust. The Trust self-insures part of its
health benefits, life insurance coverage and short-term disability. The plan issues audited financial statements, which include
financial information for the plan. The financial statements may be obtained from the plan: RTD ATU 1001 Health and Welfare
Trust, 2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215 Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602.
Unearned Compensation Plan
RTD offers its employees an unearned compensation plan (the Plan), created in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 457, which is available to substantially all employees and permits them to defer a portion of their compensation to
future years. Under the terms of the Plan, the unearned compensation is available to participants upon termination, retirement,
death or in the event of an unforeseeable emergency or other financial hardship.
Compensated Absences
RTD considers all accrued compensated absences as due within one year. Employees accrue paid time off (PTO), vacation, and
sick leave based on time in service; employees are not allowed to accumulate more than twice their annual PTO or vacation
accrual and sick leave based on years of service. Employees are paid any outstanding compensated absence balances upon
leaving RTD. RTD records these accrued compensated absences as current liabilities under the principle of conservatism by
assuming these amounts are the most RTD would be obligated to pay in the near-term.

77

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Plan Description

Packet Pg. 102

2.11.A.a

12/31/2017
Balance
Represented employees
$ 2,888
Salaried employees
$ 10,667
Total compensated absences due $ 13,555

Accruals
$ 2,283
$ 6,385
$ 8,668

Payments
$ 1,920
$ 6,804
$ 8,724

12/31/2018
Balance
$ 3,251
$ 10,248
$ 13,499

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2017 was as follows:
12/31/2016
Balance
Represented employees
$ 2,653
Salaried employees
$ 10,533
Total compensated absences due $ 13,186

Accruals
$ 1,920
$ 6,804
$ 8,724

Payments
$ 1,685
$ 6,670
$ 8,355

12/31/2017
Balance
$ 2,888
$ 10,667
$ 13,555

The accrued compensation liabilities of $23,868 and $22,787 as of December 31, 2018 and
December 31, 2017 include $10,369 and $9,232 of accrued wages, salaries, and fringe benefits
in addition to accrued compensated absences.

78

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2018 was as follows:

Packet Pg. 103

2.11.A.a

NOTE G – OPERATING LEASES – LESSOR

In December 2012, RTD entered a contract with Union Station Alliance (USA) to renovate and lease RTD’s historic Denver
Union Station Building. The renovation by USA included a hotel, Amtrak facilities, office space, retail and restaurant services
as well as renovation of the Great Train Hall. The renovations were complete and open to the public in July 2014. The
agreement includes a 60-year lease to USA to operate and maintain the facility in which RTD will participate in certain revenue
collections.
NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
Operating Lease – Civic Center Transfer Facility
In 1976, RTD entered into an operating lease for a portion of the land on which the Civic Center transfer facility is located in
downtown Denver. As collateral for the lease, RTD must maintain an account balance with a minimum market value of $1,500 in
an escrow account, the interest on which accrues to RTD until the lease expires. This amount in escrow is included in restricted
assets in the accompanying financial statements.
Fixed rental commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31, 2018, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024-2028
2029-2033
2034-2038
2039-2043
2044-2048
2049-2053
2054-2058
2059-2063
2064-2068
2069-2073
2074-2075

$ 267
270
273
275
278
1,433
1,506
1,583
1,664
1,749
1,838
1,932
2,030
2,134
2,242
929
$ 20,403

Rental expense relating to this lease amounted to $265 and $262 for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.

79

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Union Station Alliance (USA) Lease

Packet Pg. 104

2.11.A.a

RTD has entered into a number of transactions in which certain of its light rail vehicles have been leased to and subleased
back from certain U.S. and foreign companies and has entered into a transaction in which its maintenance facilities have been
leased to and subleased back. As part of these transactions, RTD irrevocably set aside certain monies (which were received
from each counter party as payment for its leasing of light rail vehicles and real property) with a third party trustee.
The monies held by such trustees will be utilized to make the lease payments owed by the RTD under the transactions and are
therefore considered fully funded and economically defeased.
Capital Projects
As of December 31, 2018, RTD has contracts for the construction of various capital projects and the purchase of buses and
light rail vehicles. The costs to complete these projects and the purchase of buses/light rail vehicles total $254,961 and
$291,877 in 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Grant Match Requirements
Under the provisions of current grants, RTD is obligated to satisfy certain matching requirements of these grants. At
December 31, 2018, RTD had a commitment to provide $33,443 in matching funds in order to receive $84,802 in future
federal and state grant funds.
Privatization Contracts
In response to the privatization legislation (Note A), RTD has awarded contracts for specific groups of routes, not to exceed
58% as required by law for vehicular services. As of January 2018, 54.83% of RTD’s non-rail transit services are delivered
by private contractors operating under the auspices and direction of RTD.
ADA Paratransit Service
With the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), RTD was mandated to provide paratransit service to
the disabled individuals unable to use RTD’s fixed route buses, operating the same days and hours of service as the fixed route
service. This service, called Access-a-Ride, is a curb-to-curb (with door-to-door assistance upon special request) transportation
system offered to disabled individuals who cannot functionally use RTD’s regular fixed route system. Passengers eligible for
Access-a-Ride service must originate their trip within 3/4 of a mile of an RTD non-commuter fixed route. Since September
1996, RTD has been in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirement to provide paratransit
service to the disabled individuals unable to use fixed route buses.
Future Commitments under Construction Contracts
In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance and operate several of the transit improvements
contemplated under the FasTracks program, including the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East Rail Corridor, the Gold
Line Rail Corridor and the electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Corridor (together, the “Eagle P3 Project). The Eagle P3
Project is being delivered and operated under a concession agreement that RTD has entered with a concessionaire that has
been selected through a competitive proposal process. The selected concessionaire is known as Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
a special purpose company owned by Fluor Enterprises, Uberior Investments and Laing Investments.

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Operating Lease – Purchased Transportation

The Eagle P3 Project construction was completed in two phases with Phase I completed in 2016 and Phase II completed in
2019. Under the terms of the Eagle P3 Project agreement, RTD made scheduled construction payments to DTP from 2011
through 2017 for completed project elements. RTD began commuter rail services on the University of Colorado A Line and the
B Line in 2016 with testing and revenue service of the final corridor, the G Line, expected to occur in 2019. RTD will assume
ownership of the entire project once certain contractual criteria and final completion occurs. Under the terms of the

80

Packet Pg. 105

concessionaire agreement, RTD will make scheduled secured principal and interest payments to DTP from 2017 through 2044
in addition to service payments for the provision of operations and maintenance services by DTP. The principal and interest
payments are fixed amounts for the term of the agreement while the service payments are indexed each year according to
certain inflation measurements. In addition, the service payments may also be adjusted for schedule changes, special services
and certain availability factors.
In 2013, RTD entered a contract with Regional Rail Partners to construct the North Metro Rail Line. The North Metro Rail
Line is an 18.5-mile electric commuter rail line that will run from Denver Union Station through Commerce City, Thornton and
Northglenn to Highway 7 at 162nd Avenue in North Adams County. The North Metro Rail Line is expected to open within the
next few years.
In 2014, RTD entered a contract with Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc. to design and construct the Southeast Rail Extension
Project. The Southeast Rail Extension includes 2.3 miles extending of the existing Southeast Light rail Line from Lincoln Station
through the City of Lone Tree to RidgeGate Parkway Station featuring a new Park-n-Ride with a structure of 1,300 parking
spaces. The Southeast Rail Extension is scheduled to open in 2019.
Future Commitments under Service Contracts
The fixed commitments under the Privatization contracts (bus) in the years subsequent to December 31, 2018 are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total

$

$

149,375
124,208
112,065
96,410
36,424
518,482

Denver Transit Partner’s concessionaire service payment commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31,
2018, are as follows:

Year ending Decmeber 31,
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024-2028
2029-2033
2034-2038
2039-2043
2044
Total

TABOR Secured
Payment

Service Availability
Payment

$

$

$

45,388
45,813
46,264
44,618
45,790
233,700
282,260
332,157
261,720
25,134
1,362,844

65,923
73,635
56,934
59,320
63,055
397,364
454,741
545,934
644,248
150,139
2,511,293

$

Total
$

$

111,311
119,448
103,198
103,938
108,845
631,064
737,001
878,091
905,968
175,273
3,874,137

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

The projected amounts include an estimation for certain future inflation indexes as required by the concessionaire agreement.
These inflation indexes will be adjusted annually as projects are revised.

81

Packet Pg. 106

2.11.A.a

RTD contracts with Mansfield Oil Co of Gainesville, Inc. for diesel fuel. The contract is structured as a single year contract.
The estimated (no locked-in price) commitment under the Mansfield contract in 2019 is $20,700. RTD estimates usage of 9.0
million gallons at unit cost of $2.30 per gallon: 5.0 million gallons of RTD’s usage and 4.0 million gallons of RTD private
carrier’s usage.
Contingencies
Federal Grants
RTD receives federal grants for capital projects and operating assistance, which are subject to audit by FTA. Although the
outcome of any such audit cannot be predicted, it is management’s opinion these audits will not result in liabilities to such an
extent that they would materially affect RTD’s financial position.
Self-Insurance
RTD is self-insured for general liability and Workers’ Compensation claims. Liabilities are reported when it is probable that a
loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit
option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are incurred.
RTD does not carry excess liability insurance for personal injury and property damage. Under the provisions of the Colorado
Government Immunity Act, the maximum liability, with certain exceptions as defined in the Act, to RTD for claims involving
personal injury and property damage is $387 per individual and $1,093 per incident.
For Workers’ Compensation, an excess coverage insurance policy covers individual claims in excess of $2,000. The amount
of settlements has not exceeded insurance coverage in any of the past three years.
RTD’s liability for unpaid claims includes an amount for claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). RTD’s Risk
Management determines incurred claims by investigating the accident and establishing a reserve. Reserves are established on
the day of assignment, reviewed at 30 days and again at 90 days. Reserves are reviewed every 90 days thereafter and based
on ultimate exposure. This amount is included in other accrued expenses in the statement of net assets. Changes in the
balances of claims liabilities for both general liability and Worker’s Compensation during the past year are as follows:

Unpaid claims, January 1, 2017
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

Auto Liability
$
4,210
4,443
(3,161)

Workers'
Compensation
$
4,671
7,843
(5,336)

5,492
3,535
(3,044)

7,178
5,367
(4,970)

12,670
8,902
(8,014)

7,575

$ 13,558

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2017
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments
Unpaid claims, December 31, 2018*

$

5,983

$

$

Total
8,881
12,286
(8,497)

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Diesel Fuel Contract

*All claim liabilities are considered current liabilities payable within one year.

82

Packet Pg. 107

2.11.A.a

RTD is party to a number of pending or threatened tort lawsuits, workers’ compensation claims, or labor/employment claims
under which it may be required to pay certain amounts upon final disposition of these matters. RTD also has certain contract
disputes being considered in contractual dispute resolution proceedings. RTD’s legal counsel estimates that the ultimate
outcome of these matters is sufficiently covered by RTD’s general liability or workers’ compensation reserves, project
contingencies, or insurance, or would not otherwise materially affect the financial statements of RTD.
RTD’s prime contractor for the North Metro Line has asserted claims primarily seeking compensation for delays on the
project. These claims are scheduled for arbitration in late 2018. RTD is contesting these claims and believes it is likely to
prevail.
RTD’s concessionaire has asserted a series of change in law and force majeure claims which, if successful, could entitle the
Concessionaire to monetary relief. RTD is contesting these claims and believes it is likely to prevail.
NOTE I – NET POSITION
December 31,
2018
Invested in capital assets, net of related debt

$

3,144,175

2017
$

3,135,186

Restricted net position
Restricted debt service
Restricted TABOR
Restricted Fastracks
Restricted Deposits
Total restricted net position

139,779
24,079
361,275
1,504
526,637

148,627
25,735
325,663
1,502
501,527

Unrestricted net position
Unrestricted - represented net pension liability*
Unrestricted - salaried net pension liability
Unrestricted net position
Total unrestricted net position

(303,435)
(24,160)
120,289
(207,306)

(330,955)
(17,685)
125,436
(223,204)

Total net position

$

3,463,506

$

3,413,509

* Note: RTD has included the full amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the
represented pension plan, in accordance with financial reporting requirements. RTD is current in making
all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.

83

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Contract Disputes and Legal Proceedings

Packet Pg. 108

2.11.A.a

RTD’s annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds
of long-term debt and capital grants as revenue and expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal payments, and
excludes TABOR rebates under Amendment One, extraordinary loss and depreciation on, as well as gains and losses on
disposition of, property and equipment. The budget sets forth all proposed outlays for operations, planning, administration,
development, debt service, and capital outlays for the fiscal year. Prior to October 15, the General Manager submits to the
Board of Directors a proposed operating and capital budget for the fiscal year commencing the following January 1, which is
made available for public inspection and comment. On or before December 31, the budget is adopted in conjunction with an
appropriation resolution by the Board of Directors, who must also approve subsequent amendments thereto. In the absence
of such adoption, RTD has authority to begin making expenditures limited to 90% of the prior year’s approved appropriation.
RTD’s policy on budget transfers authorizes the General Manager to approve certain transfers within the budget.
A reconciliation for the years ended December 31 of the annual budget, as amended, to actual revenue and expenses is as
follows:
2018

Revenues and Proceeds
Revenue, actual
Proceeds from debt/arbitrage relief
Federal capital grants and local contributions
Revenue, actual (budgetary basis)

$

2017
$

$

897,388
(5,805)
81,002
972,585

$

903,623
402,435
86,395
1,392,453

$

1,208,273

$

1,729,791

$

$

$

928,393
335,080
(285,653)
64,700
1,042,520

$

898,861
451,245
(248,633)
489,841
1,591,314

Appropriations, budget

$

1,761,218

$

1,915,320

Unused appropriations

$

718,698

$

324,006

Revenue, budget
Expenditures
Expenses, actual
Capital outlays
Depreciation, amortization, other
Long-term debt principal payments
Expenditures, actual (budgetary basis)

Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted appropriation
resolution, to carry over the unused portion of funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to exceed three years.
As of December 31, 2018, there was approximately $718,698 of unused 2018 appropriations for capital outlays available for
carryover to 2019.

84

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA

Packet Pg. 109

2.11.A.a

In November 1992, Colorado voters passed an amendment (Amendment 1) to the State Constitution (Article X, Section 20)
that limits the revenue raising and spending abilities of state and local governments known as the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights
(TABOR). The limits on property taxes, revenue, and “fiscal year spending” include allowable annual increases tied to inflation
and local growth in construction valuation. Fiscal year spending as defined by the amendment excludes spending from certain
revenue and financing sources such as federal funds, gifts, property sales, fund transfers, damage awards, and fund reserves
(balances). The amendment requires voter approval for any increase in mill levy tax rates, new taxes, or creation of multi-year
debt. Revenue earned in excess of the “spending limit” must be refunded to the taxpayers unless voters approve retention of
these revenues. In addition, the amendment mandates that reserves equal 3% of fiscal spending be established for declared
emergencies.
On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted the Regional Transportation District from the revenue and spending
limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further
exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt
incurred to finance the Southeast Corridor light rail project or to operate such project for as long as any debt remains
outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in RTD’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%,
effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted RTD
from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the increased tax
revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program. At the time
that all FasTracks debt is repaid, RTD’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the rapid transit
system financed through FasTracks. RTD has $3.477 billion in authorized debt, subject to the Amendments’ limitations. This
debt was authorized by the voters of the District in 2004 to pay for the FasTracks rapid transit improvement program. Based
on estimated fiscal year spending for 2018, $24,079 of year-end net position has been reserved for emergencies. The
Amendment is complex and subject to judicial interpretation. RTD believes it is in compliance with the requirements of the
Amendment based on the interpretations of the Amendment’s language available at year-end.
NOTE L – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On April 26, 2019, the FastTracks Gold Line opened for revenue service. Opening this 11.2 mile commuter rail line marks the
final major milestone of the Eagle P3 project resulting in the design and build portion of this public private partnership being
considered substantially complete.

85

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS

Packet Pg. 110

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

86

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 111

2018

2017

12.79%

94,802

5,042

17,170 $
12,128

2016

13.91%

82,994

5,589

17,131 $
11,542

2015

12.69%

84,774

7,994

18,752
10,758

There were no benefit changes during the year.

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

87

January 1, 2018
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of December 31st each year for implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a collective
bargaining agreement.
Entry Age Normal
Level Percentage of Payroll
30 years
5-Year smoothed market
3.00%
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
7.00%
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
RP-2014 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.
RP-2014 Combines Mortality Table, generational projected with MP-2017.

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age
Healthy Mortality
Disabled Mortality
Other Information:
Notes

Valuation Date:
Notes

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

* Fiscal year 2015 was the 1st year of implementation, therefore only three years are shown.

12.69%

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered Payroll

9,236

22,404 $
13,168

103,729

$

Covered Payroll

Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution

ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years*
(in thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plans Summary
As of December 31,

Required Supplementary Information

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 112

232.42%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of
Covered Payroll

2016

2015

368.15%

94,802

36.86%

435.29%

82,994

35.89%

367.65%

84,774

40.76%

349,011 $ 361,264 $ 311,672

12,128 $
11,542 $
10,758
4,069
3,868
3,586
11,855
(1,829)
11,779
(26,133)
(25,439)
(24,312)
(364)
(391)
(355)
1,555 $ (12,249) $
1,456
202,215
214,464
213,008
203,770 $ 202,215 $ 214,464

13,145 $
13,074 $
11,937
25,276
26,324
27,714
(3,164)
(4,711)
(6,476)
(19,822)
28,095
28,879
(26,133)
(25,439)
(24,312)
(10,698) $
37,343 $
37,742
563,479
526,136
488,394
552,781 $ 563,479 $ 526,136

2017

88

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

* Fiscal year 2015 was the 1st year of implementation, therefore only three years are shown.

Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 (December 31, 2016 measurement date, January 1, 2016 actuarial valuation date): The mortality assumptions were updated to
RP-2014 blue-collar tables published by the Society of Actuaries with project scale MP-2017. This change increased the liabilities by 2.113 million.

Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement date, January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation date): Assumption changes were a result of a
change in the Single Discount Rate changing from 5.00 percent to 4.54 percent, measured at the end of the year.

Notes to Schedule:

103,729

Covered Payroll

241,090 $

13,168 $
4,389
28,983
(27,233)
(411)
18,896 $
203,770
222,666 $

14,387 $
27,099
4,855
(108,133)
(27,233)
(89,025) $
552,781
463,756 $

48.01%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

2018

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

ATU 1001 Pension Plan

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years*
(in thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 113

$

2017

13.50%

30,378

7,632
4,100
3,532

$

2016

9.92%

31,257

6,768
3,100
3,668

$

2015

10.04%

30,880

5,682
3,100
2,582

89

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

401(a) 17 compensation and 415 limits are assumed to increase with inflation.
Turnover: 0.00% - 10.43%, based on age
Disablement: 0.06% - 1.63%, based on age
Expenses: $150 per year payable monthly

Other Information:

Mortality (Lump Sums)

Mortality (Annuities)

January 1, 2017
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of January 1, twelve months prior to end of the fiscal year in which contributions are reported.
Entry Age
Level dollar, fixed and declining 20 years.
14years
Smoothed over 5 years, based on Actuarial Value of Assets expected return.
3.00%
4.75%-9.75%, based on age
7.50%, net of investment expenses
Age
Rate
55
15.00%
55-61
10.00%
62
25.00%
63-64
15.00%
65-66
40.00%
67 or older
100.00%
Vested inactive participants are assumed to retire at age 62.
Healthy Participants: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants
Disabled Participants: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree Tables
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male/30% female for participants and 30% male / 70% female for beneficiaries.

Valuation Date:
Notes
Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for three
years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

16.66%

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered Payroll

7,296
4,600
2,696
27,619

$

20181

Covered Payroll

Period Ending December 31,
Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution
Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

RTD Salaried Pension Plan

(in thousands)

Last 10 Fiscal Years

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 114

98.44%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of
Covered Payroll
115.86%

30,378

78.82%

35,197 $

4,100 $
11,337
(7,092)
(166)
8,179 $
122,777
130,956 $
28,794

3,587 $
11,371
6,716
(7,092)
14,582 $
151,571
166,153 $

2017

92.12%

31,257

81.00%

28,794 $

3,100 $
(610)
(9,582)
(141)
(7,233) $
130,010
122,777 $
9,943

3,342
10,388
3,869
3,601
(9,582)
11,618 $
139,953
151,571 $

2016

32.20%

30,880

92.90%

9,943

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
124,993
130,010
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
125,723
139,953

2015

90

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

* Fiscal year 2015 was the 1st year of implementation, therefore only three years are shown.

Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017 measurement date, January 1, 2017 acuarial valuaiton date): No changes in actuarial assumptions
were mde since the prior valuation.

Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 (December 31, 2016 measurement date, January 1, 2016 actuarial valuation date): the administrative expense assumption
was updated from $165,000 per year, payable monthly, to $150,000 per year, payable monthly. The updated administrative expense assumption is expected to be more reflective of future
administrative expenses for the Plan. The administrative expense assumption is used for determining the actuarially determined contribution and does not impact Total Pension Liability.

Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement date, January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation date): the amount reported as Assumption
Changes resulted from a change in the salary increase assumption (average weighted salary increase changed from 4.00% to 5.00%). This change is expected to be more reflective of future
plan experience.

Notes to Schedule:

27,619

Covered Payroll

27,188 $

4,600 $
18,322
(9,339)
(177)
13,406 $
130,956
144,362 $
28,794

3,201 $
12,351
(816)
(9,339)
5,397 $
166,153
171,550 $

84.15%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

2018

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

RTD Salaried Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years*
(in thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 115

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

91

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 116

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSE AND REVENUE
BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS
Year Ended December 31, 2018
(In Thousands)
Adopted
Budget
Operating revenue
Passenger fares
Other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses

$

Operating loss
Nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/unrealized loss capital assets
Total nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Proceeds from debt
Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants
Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficiency) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital
outlays and debt principal payments
$
Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenses
Proceeds from debt
Long-term debt principal payment
Depreciation
INCREASE IN NET POSITION

Final
Budget

Variance positive
(negative)

Actual

146,785 $
5,666
152,451

146,785 $
5,666
152,451

143,231
7,535
150,766

184,736
71,165
58,928
145,060
18,149
10,985
179,180
3,712
3,652
675,567

186,522
71,930
60,853
148,405
18,149
11,485
187,209
3,712
12,102
700,367

183,899
52,993
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
578,505

2,623
18,937
9,518
67,216
1,730
1,544
10,793
1,716
7,785
121,862

(523,116)

(547,916)

(427,739)

120,177

626,175
97,023
7,278
13,077
(153,248)
590,305
-

622,834
102,681
11,732
13,246
(153,248)
597,245
-

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(1,449)
(62,770)
(16)
682,387
(5,805)

11,358
(16,278)
1,677
(628)
(1,449)
90,478
(16)
85,142
(5,805)

952,745
(317,425)
635,320
(64,700)

849,538
(311,134)
538,404
(58,065)

335,080
(81,002)
254,078
(64,700)

(514,458)
230,132
(284,326)
(6,635)

(632,831) $

(547,140)

(69,935)

$

335,080
5,805
64,700
(285,653)
49,997

$

$

(3,554)
1,869
(1,685)

477,205

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.a

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion

92

Packet Pg. 117

2.11.A.a

STATISTICAL SECTION

Contents

Page

Financial Trends

94-96

These tables contain trend information to help the reader understand how the government’s financial performance and well-being
have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity

97

These tables contain information to help the reader assess the government’s most significant revenue source.
Debt Capacity

98-99

These tables contain information to help the reader asses the affordability of the government’s current levels of outstanding debt
and the government’s ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Operating Information

100

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

This part of the Regional Transportation District’s comprehensive annual financial report presents detailed information as a context for
understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosure, and required supplementary information says about
the government’s overall financial health.

These tables contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader understand how the information in the financial report
relates to service the government provides and the activities it performs. The demographic and economic indicators help the reader
understand the environment within which the government’s financial activities take place.

93

Packet Pg. 118

2

1

(84,409)

20,284
304,667
324,951

$ 2,936,397

2015

18,842

19,193
155,345
174,538

$ 2,987,697

2014

53,218

18,304
117,827
136,131

$ 2,788,100

2013

45,782

17,451
316,711
334,162

$ 2,348,966

2012

46,199

16,392
491,313
507,705

$ 1,872,790

2011

166,299

15,486
424,348
439,834

$ 1,597,631

2010

132,035

15,158
442,489
457,647

$ 1,456,493

2009

Table 1

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

94

$ 3,413,509 $ 3,322,352 $ 3,176,939 $ 3,181,077 $ 2,977,449 $ 2,728,910 $ 2,426,694 $ 2,203,764 $ 2,046,175

(214,479)

21,609
395,948
417,557

$ 3,119,274

2016

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
Retricted net position for 2016 and 2015 has been restated by category.

$ 3,463,506

(207,306)

Unrestricted net position (note H)

Total net position

25,735
475,792
501,527

24,079
502,558
526,637
(223,204)

$ 3,135,186

$ 3,144,175

2017

Invested in capital assets,
net of related debt (Note I)
Restricted (Note I)
Emergencies
Debt and other
Total restricted net position2

2018

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
NET POSITION BY COMPONENT1 (In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 119

598,187
80,412
63,030
10,596
4,022
(65,346)
(2,981)
687,920
4,762
86,395
91,157
3,322,352

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(1,449)
(62,770)
(16)
682,387

(31,005)

Capital grants and local contribution
81,002
Increase in Net Position
49,997
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
3,413,509
(as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle,
(note A)
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
(as restated)
Prior Period Adjustment
Net Position at End of Year
$3,463,506
$3,322,352

202,235
145,414
3,176,938

(56,821)

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365

$3,176,938

2,994,739

(186,335)

169,313
182,199
3,181,074

12,886

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824
(382,947)
152,531
(535,478)

$ 120,497
5,347
125,844

$ 134,622
5,803
140,425
260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457
(419,032)
222,154
(641,186)

2015

2016

95

$3,181,074

206,431
203,625
2,977,449

(2,806)

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057
(395,154)
139,045
(534,199)

$ 120,497
4,406
124,903

2014

2012

311,676
302,216
2,426,694

(9,460)

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008
(373,746)
115,269
(489,015)

$2,977,449 $2,728,910

242,566
248,539
2,728,910

5,973

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481
(388,441)
127,256
(515,697)

$ 117,841 $ 112,929
5,199
5,333
123,040
118,262

2013

(92,217)
$2,426,694

238,292
315,147
2,203,764

76,855

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331
(283,952)
104,280
(388,232)

$ 108,497
4,882
113,379

2011

107,478
157,589
2,046,175

50,111

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)
448,042

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315
396,111
(293,755)
104,176
(397,931)

131,711
153,765
1,892,410

22,054

371,405
68,146
29,379
3,243
40
(34,179)
(23,037)
414,997

161,747
56,835
42,783
9,512
3,767
103,975
2,680
6,866
388,165
(286,918)
106,025
(392,943)

97,942 $ 96,890
4,414
4,357
102,356
101,247

2009

$2,203,764 $2,046,175

$

2010

Table 2

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

$3,413,509

263,977
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213
581,901
(434,525)
248,633
(683,158)

236,892
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
578,505
(427,739)
285,653
(713,392)

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses
Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation
Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss A
Total Nonoperating Income
Net income before
capital grants and local contributio

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
2018
2017
Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
$ 143,231 $ 140,217
Other
7,535
7,159
Total Operating Revenues
150,766
147,376

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 120

2

1

Interest
Expense2
$ 34,179
48,735
51,274
51,371
61,223
72,293
79,686
77,272
65,346
62,770

96

Other
Nonoperating
Expenses
$
23,037
5,145
6,251
4,895
4,146
3,605
1,422
1,258
2,981
1,465
Capital
Outlays2
$
410,354
712,552
616,953
702,119
769,359
862,701
870,055
693,159
451,245
335,080
Total
961,760
1,266,719
1,176,089
1,365,662
1,473,465
1,597,701
1,612,518
1,553,300
1,350,106
1,263,473

Table 3

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTD capitalizes certain interest costs, which are included in capital outlays.

Year
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

Transit
Planning,
Operating
Administrative
and Development
Depreciation
Expenses2
$
326,324 $
61,841 $
106,025
318,751
77,360
104,176
333,301
64,030
104,280
414,893
77,115
115,269
429,700
81,781
127,256
436,905
83,152
139,045
427,468
81,356
152,531
470,005
89,452
222,154
491,673
90,228
248,633
488,277
90,228
285,653

(In Thousands)

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES AND CAPITAL OUTLAYS1

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 121

1

Sales/Use
Tax
$
371,405
397,549
415,180
449,787
468,586
514,721
541,518
563,598
598,187
634,192

Grant
Operating
Assistance
$
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335
80,412
86,403
Interest
Income
$ 29,379
8,065
6,484
2,613
2,040
165
3,164
6,371
63,030
13,409

97

$

Other
3,283
3,653
11,356
14,494
28,170
16,861
11,407
15,591
14,618
12,618

Total
Revenue
$
573,460
604,278
635,991
654,083
710,079
732,194
755,349
803,420
903,623
897,388

Capital
Grants
$ 129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324
75,500
52,229

Local
Contributions
$
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911
10,895
28,773

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Year
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

Operating
Revenues
$
101,247
102,356
113,379
118,262
123,040
124,903
125,877
140,525
147,376
150,766

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
REVENUE BY SOURCE1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

Total Revenue
and Capital Grant
& Contributions
705,171
$
711,756
874,283
965,759
952,645
938,625
924,662
1,005,655
990,018
978,390

Table 4

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 122

84,821

84,101

83,490

89,033

86,542

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

26,235

25,364

27,043

26,438

25,712

20,725

26,211

25,010

44,511

44,430
$

112,777

114,397

110,533

110,539

110,533

97,511

96,963

95,656

90,835

87,640

Total

28,973

28,451

31,285

43,502

57,226

62,373

56,071

53,669

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

$

38,465

32,702

34,655

27,910

31,290

25,735

28,575

25,955

26,725

18,340

Principal
$

92,134

88,773

97,028

85,136

74,792

57,020

57,026

54,928

40,436

32,054

Total

$

98

634,192

598,187

563,598

541,518

514,721

541,518

449,787

415,180

397,549

371,405

Collections

Sales Tax

5.62

5.23

5.10

4.90

4.66

5.55

4.64

4.34

4.38

4.24

Ratio

Coverage

Table 5

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

13,711

13,714

Interest

2010

$

76,786

2013

2009

70,752

2012

$

Principal

Certificate of Participation Debt Service Requirements

70,646

2011

43,210

46,324

$

Interest

2010

2009

LAST TEN YEARS (UNADUITED)

Sales Tax Bond Debt Service Requirements

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS1
(In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 123

1

99,203

108,071

128,323

141,327

145,863

145,104

140,211

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

$

64,700

58,066

61,698

54,348

57,002

46,460

54,786

50,965

71,236

62,770

Principal
$

204,911

203,170

207,561

195,675

185,325

154,531

153,989

150,584

131,271

119,694

Total

99

978,390

990,018

924,662

938,645

952,645

965,494

874,283

654,083

4.77

4.87

4.45

4.80

5.14

6.25

5.68

4.34

4.37

4.79

573,460
573,460

Ratio

Coverage

Revenue

Total

Table 5

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Source: The financial records of RTD and the Offical Statements of the respective debt issues.

99,619

2011

56,924

60,035

$

Interest

Total Debt Service Requirements

2010

2009

(In Thousands)

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS (Continued)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 124

January 1 population within RTD
service area1
Cities and towns served
Square miles in service area
Total miles
Passenger stops
Number of fixed routes
Local
Express
Regional
Skyride
Boulder City
Longmont City
Limited
Miscellaneous
Ridership average weekday,
without Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA, and Van Pool
Total annual boardings without
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and ADA
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and CRT
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA service, and Van Pool
Daily miles operated (average weekday),
including Mall Shuttle
Daily miles operated (average
weekday), including Mall Shuttle
and Light Rail
Diesel fuel consumption, gallons 2
Total active buses
Wheelchair lift equipped buses
Number of employees 2
Salaried
Represented (includes part-time)
Fleet requirements ( peak hours)
Operating facilities 2

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

DEMOGRAPHIC AND OPERATING DATA

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

2

193,391
229,966

326,413
64,457,209
73,947,723
105,773,275

106,849,922
124,688

142,489
5,550,000
1,023
1,023
817
1,962
834
7

183,293

221,938

321,891

61,091,654

71,366,204

104,307,853

105,388,415

124,202

141,621
5,238,000
1,026
1,026
870
2,018
841
7

779
2,034
834
7

136,677
5,550,000
1,023
1,023

120,613

101,322,384

100,248,216

71,345,729

59,005,677

331,580

236,573

197,637

2,920,000
40
2,342
44,368,116
9,077
172
115
16
3
13
4
16
5

2016

779
1,955
834
7

131,221
5,550,000
1,021
1,021

119,076

102,991,663

101,776,337

76,257,759

62,833,246

338,363

252,034

208,086

2,870,000
40
2,340
47,575,444
9,566
137
69
15
20
5
13
4
18
8

2015

100

735
1,929
821
7

119,706
5,550,000
1,011
1,011

107,635

104,987,248

103,851,061

77,464,530

63,935,032

344,348

255,696

211,702

2,870,000
40
2,340
45,746,927
9,751
138
65
14
17
5
13
4
11
9

2014

752
1,901
785
6

118,385
5,600,000
992
992

106,709

101,966,009

100,844,239

77,079,604

63,010,579

335,391

254,071

208,387

2,800,000
40
2,340
45,246,715
9,509
136
65
14
17
5
13
4
11
7

2013

700
1,715
779
6

139,083
5,400,000
998
998

129,517

99,122,065

97,959,296

77,320,228

63,640,443

326,747

255,501

210,811

2,800,000
40
2,340
38,824,067
9,841
145
71
17
17
5
13
4
10
7

2012

697
1,785
797
6

126,849
5,400,000
969
969

117,261

98,384,882

97,272,342

76,577,627

61,634,723

325,900

254,197

205,504

2,800,000
40
2,348
42,996,614
9,698
138
64
16
17
5
12
4
11
9

2011

696
1,744
806
6

134,294
5,200,000
1,025
1,025

124,248

97,724,928

96,657,335

76,825,609

62,902,963

323,311

255,068

209,172

2,800,000
40
2,348
41,449,988
10,140
148
66
20
16
5
14
7
11
9

2010

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Source: Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. All other data comes from the financial records of RTD.
Excludes purchased transportation services.

Packet Pg. 125

1

2,920,000
40
2,342
49,348,647
9,077
172
115
16
3
13
4
16
5

2017

3,080,000
40
2,342
59,239,576
9,800
169
107
23
3
13
4
14
5

2018

664
1,802
830
6

159,824
5,400,000
1,050
1,050

149,750

98,746,429

97,687,476

77,928,088

63,578,004

328,291

259,873

212,758

2,800,000
40
2,348
48,862,622
10,199
150
67
20
16
5
15
7
11
9

2009

Table 6

2.11.A.a

SBP Operations Program
SBP Capital Program
RTD Statement of Debt
RTD Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue
RTD Advertising and Ancillary Revenues
RTD Federal Grant Receipts
Five-Year Summary of Revenue/Expense Statements
Five-Year Summary of Budget/Actuals
RTD 2018 and 2019 Budget
Trip Fares
RTD Net Retail Sales

Table Title

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

101

Statements of

Summary Balance Sheet

Net Position – pg. 38-39

Statistical Section – Table 4

Location in CAFR

RTD Revenues by Source

Table Title

Debt Disclosure Tables Updated in Body of 2018 CAFR

7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

CAFR
Table

Debt Disclosure Tables for 2018 CAFR

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 126

1,2

2

1

19,400
158,963
111,666
8,078
420
1,400
1,057
(16,736)
2,276
1,088
893
72,775
48,031
(2,124)
26,156
515
47,311
1,619
1,069
108,839
(44,395)
$ 548,301

$

2019
$ 16,834
166,267
112,949
8,298
432
(17,193)
2,338
1,118
917
76,326
48,606
(2,182)
26,859
529
48,081
116
1,099
115,900
(46,645)
$560,649

2020
$ 14,353
170,669
115,912
8,519
443
(17,650)
2,401
1,148
942
78,346
49,895
(2,240)
27,569
543
49,351
1,208
1,128
116,739
(47,885)
$571,391

2021
$ 12,140
175,104
118,897
8,741
455
(18,109)
2,463
1,178
966
80,382
51,194
(2,298)
28,286
1,430
50,634
3,534
1,157
121,390
(49,131)
$588,413

2022
$ 10,253
179,658
120,963
8,969
467
(18,583)
2,527
1,208
992
82,473
52,525
(2,358)
29,021
1,604
51,949
2,087
1,188
123,690
(50,416)
$598,217

2023
8,414
184,344
125,118
9,204
479
(19,069)
2,594
1,240
1,018
84,623
53,895
(2,420)
29,778
1,646
53,302
281
1,218
141,756
(51,735)
$625,686

$

2024
81,394
1,035,005
705,505
51,809
2,696
1,400
1,057
(107,340)
14,599
6,980
5,728
474,925
304,146
(13,622)
167,669
6,267
300,628
8,845
6,859
728,314
(290,207)
$ 3,492,657

$

Total Cost

Table 7

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

102

Interest payments are not presented in year of expenditure dollars. All other operating expenses are presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Interest payments on bonds and certificates of participation (COPS) issued for purposes other than FasTracks.

Interest Payments
Bus Operations – Current RTD
Bus Operations – Private Carrier after Contract
Bus Operations - call-n-Ride
Private Contract Administration Costs
Service Increases – RTD-Operated
Service Increases – Private Contractor
FasTracks Service Allocation - Bus1
Cost Sharing Agreements - Bus Service
Van Pool Program
Section 5011 Local Match
Rail Operations
ADA Operating Costs
FasTracks Service Allocation - ADA1
Safety & Secuirty - Base
Safety & Security - Additional Costs
Capital Programs & Facilities - Base
Capital Programs & Facilities- Additional Costs
Direct Costs - Other Departments
Indirect Costs - Other Departments
FasTracks - Cost Allocation
Grand Total

Program

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2019-2024 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - OPERATING PROGRAM (In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 127

$

$

$

105,593

$

109,892

54

53

112,931

308
1,084
7,017
-

31,949
4,498
271
-

2021
64,711

303
3,431
4,172
-

$

750
3,468
2,569
3,307
103

2020
65,793
25,771
1,425
4,381
264
-

$

32,612
1,233
4,239
1,541
499

2019
62,610

$

$

119,441

111

4,769
889
11,132
-

31,345
445
5,949
6,583
-

2022
58,218

$

$

2

163,107

4,132
627
6,359
68,461
2,355
114

23,829
228
6,104
3,903
-

2023
46,995

$

$

85,452

117

3,262
293
1,932
-

24,266
234
4,274
2,249
-

2024
48,825

$

$

Table 8

696,416

169,772
907
2,658
29,445
14,811
499
13,524
9,792
2,569
33,919
68,461
2,355
552

Total Cost
347,152

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

103

Principal payments are set at the time the bonds are issued and do not change with inflation.
Long-term debt service costs include principal payments on bonds and COPs and are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
3
Capital expenditures and discretionary capital amounts are presented in year of expenditure dollars.

1

Grand Total

Program
Long Term Debt Service1,2
Fleet Modernization and Expansion3
Buses and ADA Vehicles
Other
Light Rail Vehicles
Transfer Stations3
Rail Construction3
Rail Transit3
park-n-Rides3
Capital Support Equipment3
Vehicles and Bus Maintenance Equipment
Information Systems, Computer Equip. for Ops.
Capital Support Projects3
Facilities Construction and Maintenance3
Planning3
Treasury3
Unallocated Capital3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2019-2024 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - CAPITAL PROGRAM (In Thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 128

2.11.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF DEBT
as of December 31, 2018

Table 9

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071 - FasTracks

$

250,767

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071

61,695

RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2010AB1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A1
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013AB1
RTD Sales Tax TIFIA Loan4
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2017A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2017B1
Total Sales Tax Revenue Debt

380,911
528,560
14,206
239,644
325,328
227,604
91,531
139,599
2,259,845

$

Outstanding2

Lease Purchase Agreements
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Taxable Certificates of Participation, Series
2007A
2010AB
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
2016A JPM Lease Puchase Agreement Refunding
2017A JPM Lease Puchase Agreement Refunding
Total Certificates of Participation Debt
Total Debt
RTD Distirct Populaiton3
Per Capita Debt Requirement
1

$

4,815
201,679
180,780
462,510
139,222
50,512
153,140
1,192,658

$

3,452,503

$

3,080,000
1,121

The Bond Resolution pursuant to which the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are issued provides that pledged for the payment of such Bonds are
the Sales Tax Revenues and "any additional revenues legally available to RTD which the Board in its discretion may hereafter by Supplemental
Resolution pledge to the payment of the Bonds".

2

RTD is current on its obligations under all such debt.

3

Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments.

4

Capitalized interest thru 2020

104

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Outstanding2

Sales Tax Bonds

Packet Pg. 129

2.11.A.a
ANNUAL RIDERSHIP AND FARE REVENUE - 2009-2018
(In Thousands)

Table 10

Revenue
Fare
Revenue
Boardings1
Year
2009
83,337
$
96,890
9.8%
2010
83,732
97,942
1.1%
2011
83,428
108,497
10.8%
2012
85,442
112,929
4.1%
2013
87,820
117,841
4.3%
2014
91,049
120,497
2.3%
2015
88,927
120,530
0.0%
2016
88,982
134,622
11.7%
2017
87,823
140,217
4.2%
2018
95,114
143,231
2.1%
1
Totals for 2009-2018 include both access-a-Ride boardings and vanpool
boardings.
ADVERTISING AND ANCILLARY REVENUES - 2009-2018
(In Thousands)
Advertising
Ancillary
Year
Revenue
Revenues
2009
$
2,866
$
3,243
2010
3,301
2,892
2011
3,992
2,528
2012
3,524
2,214
2013
2,924
20,123
2014
4,324
2,085
2015
4,160
1,186
2016
3,722
2,081
2017
4,280
2,879
2018
4,433
3,102

Table 11

GRANT RECEIPTS AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS - 2009-2018
(In Thousands)

Table 12

Year
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

Grant
Capital
$
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324
75,500
52,229

Local
Contributions
$
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911
10,895
28,773

Grant Operating
Assistance
$
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335
80,412
86,403

105

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Percent
Change
in Fare
Revenue

Packet Pg. 130

2.11.A.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISCTRICT
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)

Table 13

Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
Other
Total Operating Revenues

$

143,231
7,535
150,766

2017
$

Years ended December 31
2016

140,217
7,159
147,376

$

134,622
5,803
140,425

$

2015
120,530
5,347
125,877

2014
$

120,497
4,406
124,903

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses

236,892
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317
578,505

263,977
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213
581,901

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,217
3,462
4,531
508,825

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057

Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation

(427,739)
285,653

(434,525)
248,633

(419,032)
222,154

(382,947)
152,531

(395,154)
139,045

Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss
Total Nonoperating Income

(713,392)

(683,158)

(641,186)

(535,478)

(534,199)

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(1,449)
(62,770)
(16)
682,387

598,187
80,412
63,030
10,596
4,022
(65,346)
(2,981)
687,920

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

Net income before capital grants and local contributions
Federal capital grants and local contributions

(31,005)
81,002

4,762
86,395

(56,821)
202,235

12,886
169,313

(2,806)
206,431

Increase in Net Position

49,997

91,157

145,414

182,199

203,625

3,413,509

3,322,352

3,176,938

3,181,074

2,977,449

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as previously reported)
Net Position, Beginning of Year (as restated)
Net Position at End of Year

2,994,739
$

3,463,506

$

3,413,509

$

3,322,352 $

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2018

106
Packet Pg. 131

$

(547,140)

$

49,997

335,080
5,805
64,700
(285,653)

(69,935) $

64,700

254,078

538,404
58,065

335,080
(81,002)

849,538
(311,134)

(5,805)

682,387

634,192
86,403
13,409
12,618
(1,449)
(62,770)
(16)

(427,739)

578,505

236,892
51,335
81,189
16,419
9,941
176,416
1,996
4,317

150,766

(185,529)

58,065

636,941

1,055,839
(418,898)

457,091

575,560

586,053
103,785
4,197
11,244
(129,719)
-

(523,174)

671,697

238,452
55,853
154,405
22,149
8,485
174,209
3,712
14,432

148,523

$

91,157

451,245
(402,435)
489,841
(248,633)

(198,861) $

489,841

364,850

451,245
(86,395)

402,435

687,920

598,187
80,412
63,030
10,596
4,022
(65,346)
(2,981)

(434,525)

581,901

263,977
44,686
77,323
16,503
13,319
159,051
2,829
4,213

147,376

(672,767)

61,698

1,138,134

1,396,223
(258,089)

457,091

573,257

569,763
96,767
3,840
20,200
(117,313)
-

(503,283)

638,253

222,966
60,001
139,385
19,382
7,665
175,696
3,557
9,601

134,970

$

145,414

693,159
(314,174)
133,098
(222,154)

(144,515) $

133,098

490,924

693,159
(202,235)

314,174

584,365

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)

(419,032)

559,457

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183

140,425

2015

(959,239)

58,942

1,480,625

1,687,076
(206,451)

457,091

550,165

551,368
78,832
4,310
11,020
(95,365)
-

(426,928)

555,546

202,135
67,741
139,607
15,015
7,595
114,214
3,415
5,824

128,618

$

123,373 $
5,245

Budget

182,199

870,055
(299,688)
54,348
(152,531)

(289,985) $

54,348

700,742

870,055
(169,313)

299,688

548,364

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

(382,947)

508,824

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531

125,877

120,530 $
5,347

Actual

2014

(698,800)

62,187

1,535,647

1,811,720
(276,073)

795,604

520,002

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
-

(416,572)

546,980

184,597
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931

130,408

$

124,985 $
5,423

Budget

203,625

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)

(3,709)

57,002

656,270

862,701
(206,431)

573,324

531,393

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

(395,154)

520,057

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561

124,903

120,497
4,406

Actual

Table 14

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial
107 Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

* RTD's annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenues, and expenditures include capital outlays and
bond principal

Net Income

Increases (decreases) to reconcile budget basis
to GAAP basis
Capital expenditures
Long-term debt proceeds
Long-term debt principal
Depreciation

Excess (deficit) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital outlay
and debt principal payments

Long-term debt principal payment

Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants

-

597,245

Total nonoperating revenue

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

622,834
102,681
11,732
13,246
(153,248)
-

Nonoperating revenue (expense):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unlrealized loss

700,367

Total Operating Expenses
(547,916)

258,452
60,853
148,405
18,149
11,485
187,209
3,712
12,102

Operating loss

152,451

Total operating revenues

Operating expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FIVE-YEAR SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES AND REVENUES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS (In Thousands)*
2018
2017
2016
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Operating revenues:
Passenger fares
$
146,785 $ 143,231 $
142,500 $ 140,217 $
130,173 $ 134,622 $
Other
5,666
7,535
6,023
7,159
4,797
5,803

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 132

$

Net position summary:
Net investment in capital assets

$

$

4,457,313

2

$

$

$

4,341,019

56,310
73,589

85,787

25,977

119,701

3,979,655

4,341,019

1,049,776

755,412
152,155
76,771
111,373
719,372
1,815,083

159,067
1,384,508

169,216
668,330
370,885
28,374
(2,003)
(9,361)

2019
Adopted Budget
$
3,721,818

Table 15

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

108

46,300
62,166

87,410

24,008

99,413

4,138,016

4,457,313

1,483,257

Adjustments reflect cash activity from the Statement of Net Position.
Funds restricted by bond covenants, other contracts and policy guidelines.
3
Appropriated funds which are available to fund future year expenditures for the FasTracks program.
4
Board appropriated funds per policy guidelines and funds designated for capital replacement.

1

4,630,947

46,256
59,010

Restricted Board appropriated and capital replacement fund4
Unrestricted fund

Ending net position

23,969
87,410

Restricted FasTracks3

121,147

Restricted TABOR fund

$

4,630,947

$

Ending net position

4,293,155

1,225,334

Adjustments1

Restricted debt service, project related and other2

675,567
153,248
64,700
209,197
743,548
1,846,260

Expenditures:
Operating
Interest expense
Debt payments
Current capital
Capital carryforward
Total expenditures

$

152,451
622,834
413,815
24,978
(22,092)
2,700
155,445
1,350,131

152,451
626,175
414,448
20,355
(22,092)
111,035
1,302,372

Beginning net position
Revenues:
Operating
Sales & use taxes
Federal and local grants
Interest and other income
FasTracks - change in debt service reserve
FasTracks - change in FISA
Change in capital acquisition reserve
Financing proceeds
Contributed capital
Total Revenues
700,367
153,248
64,700
231,525
639,745
1,789,585

2018
Amended Budget
$
3,413,510

2018
Adopted Budget
$
3,949,501

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FISCAL YEAR 2018 AND 2019 BUDGET SUMMARY (in thousands)

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 133

Other 10-Ride1
$
11.75
20.25

Regular 10Ride
$ 23.50
40.50

Multiple Trip Fares
Local - Denver, Boulder and Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional

Regular Day
Pass Book
$
26.00
45.00

Other Day Pass
Book1
$
13.00
22.50

Regular Monthly
$
99.00
171.00

Other Monthly 1
$
49.00
85.00

Table 16

109

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Includes monthly fares for youth, student, disabled and senior patrons. Youth patrons include children ages 6-19. Student includes any student with a school identification card. Seniors include
age 65 and older.

1

Senior/ Disabled/
Student Fare1
Free
$
1.30
2.25
4.50

Fare
Free
$
2.60
4.50
9.00

Single Trip Fares
Mall Shuttle and Free Mall Ride
Local - Denver, Boulder, Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional
Airport

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
TRIP FARES

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 134

1

Boulder
County
$ 3,216
3,391
3,721
3,851
4,033
4,359
4,547
4,798
4,924
5,148
Jefferson
County
$
5,536
5,656
6,001
6,202
6,538
7,013
7,505
7,718
7,986
8,585

Adams
County1
$ 4,240
4,433
4,749
5,323
5,731
6,436
6,932
7,301
8,117
9,031

Arapahoe
County1
$
6,459
6,817
7,486
8,109
8,456
9,211
9,887
10,144
10,481
10,840

110

Douglas
County1
$
2,319
2,390
2,778
2,912
3,108
3,318
3,575
3,786
4,036
4,191

Broomfield
County1
$
790
935
944
991
1,004
1,045
1,077
1,055
1,144
1,225
Other
$ 474
718
1,041
1,036
1,399
1,359
1,886
1,181

Total Taxable
Transactions
$
32,303
34,106
37,959
40,839
41,731
45,636
49,551
51,412
54,699
56,978

Attachment: RTD 2018 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

Only a portion of each of these counties lies within the District

Year
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

Denver
County
$
9,269
9,766
11,239
12,415
12,861
14,254
14,629
15,251
16,125
16,777

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RTD NET TAXABLE RETAIL SALES (In Millions)
Percent Annual
Increase or
Decrease
-11.7%
5.6%
11.3%
7.6%
2.2%
9.4%
8.6%
3.8%
6.4%
4.2%

Table 17

2.11.A.a

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 136

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 137

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 138

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 139

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 140

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 141

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 142

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 143

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 144

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 145

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 146

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 147

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 148

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 149

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 150

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 151

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 152

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 154

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 155

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 156

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 157

Attachment: RTD 2018 Viewpoints (3813 : 2018 CAFR and Report to Governance)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 158

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 1, 2019

From:

Mike Washington, Title VI Manager

GM

Date:

May 1, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

2019 Title VI Program Update

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
the 2019 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
This action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:






Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #2 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
Task Goal #2 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods

BACKGROUND
Pursuant to Section 12 of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Master Agreement, RTD must comply
with 49 CFR part 21 and FTA Circular 4702.1B, which effectuates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (Title VI), as a condition of federal financial assistance. Title VI prohibits discrimination on the
basis of race, color and national origin from recipients of federal financial assistance (grants, loans, etc.).
DISCUSSION
Per FTA Circular 4702.1B, Title VI Requirements and Guidelines for Federal Transit Administration
Recipients, RTD is required to submit a Title VI Program Update every three years. The Title VI Program
Update details the manner in which RTD intends to achieve compliance with the following objectives of
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964:
1. To ensure that FTA-assisted benefits and related services are made available and are equitably
distributed without regard to race, color, or national origin;
2. To ensure that the level and quality of FTA-assisted transit services are sufficient to provide equal
access and mobility for any person without regard to race, color or national origin;
3. To ensure that opportunities to participate in the transit planning and decision-making are
provided to persons without regard to race, color or national origin;
4. To ensure that decisions on the location of transit services and facilities are made without regard
to race, color or national origin; and

Packet Pg. 159

2.11.B

5. To ensure that corrective and remedial action is taken to prevent disparate impacts borne by any
beneficiary based on race, color, or national origin.
The update itself includes an Executive Summary and is an attachment to the board report. For the sake
of simplicity and efficiency, staff has not included previously approved policies documents due to the
high volume of pages (100+ pages), but these items may be requested from Michael Washington.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The adoption of the 2019 Title VI Program Update does not result in any direct or foreseeable financial
impacts.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Accept the recommended action by the Operations and Customer Service Committee. It is
recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the 2019 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines
related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
2) Do not accept the recommended action by the Operations and Customer Service Committee. This
action is not recommended as it is against federal law and would jeopardize current and future
federal funding.

ATTACHMENTS:


2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1



2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (DOCX)



2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (DOCX)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 160

2019 Title VI Program Update
An Overview
May 7, 2019
A Transit-Oriented Communities Division Initiative

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 161

Equity Defined by Law
qTitle VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964
§ Prohibits recipients of federal funds from
discriminating on the basis of race, color,
national origin

qExecutive Order 12898:
Environmental Justice
§ Federal recipients must avoid, minimize and
mitigate disproportionately high and
adverse effects on minority and low-income
populations

2

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 162

Focal Point: Direct Impact
Transit agencies focus on the direct benefits and adverse effects of their
activities.
• Service – Distribution and quality of
bus and rail service
• Fares – Access to and cost of fare
media
• Capital Investment (Facilities
and fixed-guideways) – access to
the investment and displacement
due to property acquisition
3

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 163

Consequences of Discrimination
1. Disparate Treatment
(Intentional Discrimination):
a)

Lawsuit

b)

Suspension, termination or refusal of
federal funding

2. Disparate Impact
(Unintentional Discrimination):
a)

4

Suspension, termination or refusal of
federal funding

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 164

Title VI Program Update
Every three years the Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) requires a summary of RTD’s efforts to
promote equity and ensure non-discrimination in a
Title VI Program Update.
The update includes measures such as:
• Equity Analyses of Fare and Service Changes
• System-Wide Service Standards and Policies
• Transit Service Monitoring
• Inclusive Decision-Making

5

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 165

Equity Analysis Example: Route 33 to FlexRide

6

Proposed
Elimination of
Route 33

Equity Analysis
Revealed Disparate
Impact

Staff Seeks Least
Discriminatory
Alternative

FlexRide Route
Identified as Least
Discriminatory
Alternative

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 166

Major Activities
• Marketing and Outreach Advisory
Group – The LiVE Program
• Triennial Transit Monitoring
• Pass Program Working Group
• L Line Equity Analysis and
Engagement

7

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 167

High Risk Areas

Security

8

Language
Access

Public
Participation

CustomerOperator
Interactions

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 168

2019 - 2022 Equity Program Initiatives
Inclusive DecisionMaking Framework

• Develop a set of policies and practices to facilitate full public participation
in major decisions (e.g. long range plans, service changes, fare changes,
policy development)

Internal Equity
Training Initiative

• Enhance inclusivity through cultural competency and implicit bias
training; prioritizing executive management, senior management and
customer facing employees

Language Assistance
Initiative

• Engage communities to determine which language assistance tools and
practices can best ensure access to our services

Equity in Safety &
Security

• Build a trusting relationship with community; inform safety and security
policies and practices with community feedback

9

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 169

Questions?

10

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Board Presentation v.1 (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.a

Packet Pg. 170

TITLE VI

2
0
1
9

PROGRAM UPDATE
Regional Transportation District

|

Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Equitable distribution of transit service is a core principle of the Regional Transportation District. This
document describes the measures taken to promote equitable transit service as stipulated by Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898 (Environmental Justice).

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Packet Pg. 171

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Excutive Summary ........................................................................................................................................ 2

Demographic profile ..................................................................................................................................... 3
Table 1 – RTD Service Area Demographic Breakdown ....................................................................... 3
Table 2 – RTD Ridership demographics ............................................................................................... 3
Complaints .................................................................................................................................................... 4
Subrecipient .................................................................................................................................................. 4
Public participation and language assistance ................................................................................................ 5
Service Standards and Transit Monitoring.................................................................................................... 5
Fare and Service Change Equity Analysis .................................................................................................... 5
Equity Analysis policies ............................................................................................................................ 6
Equity analyses completed ........................................................................................................................ 7
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................... 7

Appendix:
Demographic Profile Maps
Complaint Summary
Public Participation Plan
Language Assistance Plan
Transit Service Monitoring Report

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI and Environmental Justice ........................................................................................................... 2

Page 1

Packet Pg. 172

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

EXCUTIVE SUMMARY

Equity is a core principle of the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) mission to provide mass transit
service in the Denver Metro Area. An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and
adverse effects of transit service without regard for race, color, national origin, or low-income status. This
principle is detailed and reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order
12898 (Environmental Justice).
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national
origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance. Specifically, Title VI states, “No person in the
United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity
receiving Federal financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive
Order 12898, which states that each federal
agency “shall make achieving environmental
justice part of its mission by identifying and
addressing disproportionately high and adverse
human health or environmental effects of its
programs, policies, and activities on minority
populations and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA)
Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA
financial assistance with instructions for
achieving compliance with Title VI and
Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires that RTD document measures taken to comply
with DOT’s Title VI regulations by submitting a Title VI Program to their FTA regional civil rights
officer once every three years or as otherwise directed by FTA.
In this Title VI program update, the Transit Oriented Communities Division has compiled a
documentation of compliance efforts made from June of 2016 – April of 2019. Below is an overview of
the collection of documents and information that comprise the 2019 Title VI Program Update.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TITLE VI AND ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Page 2

Packet Pg. 173

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE
RTD’s serves the 2,340 square mile Denver Metro area, inhabited by 2.8 million people, with areas of
high-concentrations of minorities (above 35% representation in a Census block group) and low-income
populations (above 19% representation in a Census block group).

TABLE 1 – RTD SERVICE AREA DEMOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN 1

Total Population of Service
Area

Minority
Population

Percent Minority

2,870,150

1,002,805

35%

TABLE 2 – RTD RIDERSHIP DEMOGRAPHICS 2

Demographic

Total System

Minority

33%

Non-Minority

67%



More than one-half of passengers were over the age of 45;



One-third of passengers reported residing in the County of Denver;



Approximately one-half of passengers reported having a college degree;



Two-thirds of passengers were non-Hispanic whites; and



Nearly one-quarter of passengers reported not having a car available to the drivers in their
households.

An analysis of American Community Survey (ACS) data, Customer Satisfaction Surveys and
Demographic Profile maps reveals minority and low-income ridership are predominately located within
the densely populated urban communities of the District. Customer Satisfaction Survey data shows

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

The following tables depict the demographic profile of the District.

1 American Community Survey 2016 5-Year Estimates
2 RTD 2017 Customer Satisfaction Survey

Page 3

Packet Pg. 174

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
Denver Local (bus and rail) and Limited Bus service is primarily utilized by minority and low-income
populations.

For detailed information pertaining to the District’s minority and low-income populations. Demographic
Profile Maps and Customer Satisfaction Survey data are included in appendix to this document.

COMPLAINTS
Federal recipients are also required to directly accept, log and investigate complaints of discrimination.
Further, recipients are required to notify the public of their right to complain and the procedures for
processing their complaint.
RTD has seen an increase in the frequency of complaints in the last two years. In the appendix is a copy
of the Title VI public notice placed on all RTD vehicles, and a table summarizing complaints received
and their status (open, closed, etc…).
To address the increase in complaints, RTD will explore the development of an equity training program.
The goal of the program is to provide customer facing employees with the cultural competency and
awareness necessary to enhance the customer experience for all.

SUBRECIPIENT
RTD’s sub-recipients of federal financial assistance must also comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964. To meet its enforcement responsibilities under Title VI, RTD has implemented a subrecipient monitoring process.
The RTD Title VI Manager will ensure the following actions are taken affirming that RTD and its subrecipients comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and FTA Circular 4702.1B:
1. Each year sub-recipients must provide RTD with an FTA Civil Rights Assurance/Signed Assurance
that all records and other information required under FTA Circular 4702.1B have been or will be
compiled, as appropriate, and maintained;
2. Each sub-recipient must implement a Title VI complaint process and provide RTD with a list of
active lawsuits and Civil Rights Complaint summary alleging discrimination on the basis of race,
color or national origin;
3. Each sub-recipient must post its Title VI Policy Statement in prominent, conspicuous and
accessible locations throughout its facilities;

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Since the 2016 Title VI Program Update, the minority population has grown in the entire service area in
number and proportion. The City and County of Denver is the only county that has seen a reduction in the
proportion of their minority population. The Hispanic/Latino population has grown most significantly.

4. Sub-recipients must take responsible steps to ensure meaningful access to the benefits, services,
information, and other important portions of their programs and activities for individuals who are
Limited English Proficient (LEP).

Page 4

Packet Pg. 175

2.11.B.b

In general, sub-recipients should have a public participation process that offers early and continuous
opportunities for the public to be involved in the identification of social, economic, and environmental
impacts of proposed transportation decisions. Efforts to involve minority and low-income people in
public involvement activities can include both comprehensive measures, such as placing public notices at
all stations and in all vehicles, and measures targeted to overcome linguistic, institutional, cultural,
economic, historical, or other barriers that may prevent minority and low-income populations from
effectively participating in a recipient’s decision-making. Sub-recipients must file with RTD
documentation of its public participation plan.
Each sub-recipient further agrees to comply with, and assure compliance by its third party subcontractors
at any tier under the Project, with all requirements of the FTA Title VI Program pursuant to FTA Circular
4702.1B and 49 CFR 21.5(b)(2) and 49 CFR 21 .5(b)(7), Appendix C to 49 CFR Part 21.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
Included in this Title VI Program Update are an updated Public Participation Plan and Language
Assistance Plan. These plans detail how RTD engages minority populations, low-income populations, and
populations that are LEP. The Public Participation Plan also describes RTD’s approach to achieving
diversity on its non-elected advisory committee(s). These plans are included in the appendix.

SERVICE STANDARDS AND TRANSIT MONITORING
FTA Circular 4702.1b Chapter VI requires fixed-route service providers of Urbanized Areas with a
population of 200,000 or more to establish service standards and monitor their service to ensure service is
provided accordingly. Service standards guide fixed-route service providers toward objective decisionmaking in the provision of service. The FTA further expects transit agencies to monitor their services to
ensure service is provided in a non-discriminatory manner. Service is monitored by comparing a sampling
of non-minority routes and minority routes, defined as 1/3 of revenue mileage borders census blocks with
a minority population greater than the service area average.
No disparities were found during the transit monitoring of this reporting period. The detailed transit
monitoring results can be found in the appendix.

FARE AND SERVICE CHANGE EQUITY ANALYSIS
The FTA requires RTD to establish policies that will guide the analysis to determine whether major
service changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on minority or low-income populations.
Accordingly, RTD established equity analysis policies and a service evaluation process to meet this
requirement.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 5

Packet Pg. 176

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

EQUITY ANALYSIS POLICIES

In the development of the equity policies, RTD sought public feedback on the disparity and
disproportionate burden thresholds through a series of public meetings. These policies and their
applicable thresholds are listed below:
1. MAJOR SERVICE CHANGE POLICY:
A major service change is defined as a 25 percent addition or reduction in the service hours of
any route that would remain in effect for twelve (12) or more months. All major service changes
will be subject to an equity analysis that includes an analysis of adverse effects.
a. Adverse Effect is defined as a geographical or temporal reduction in service that includes,
but is not limited to eliminating a route, shortening a route by eliminating segments,
rerouting an existing route, and increasing headways. RTD shall consider the degree of
adverse effects and analyze those effects when planning major service changes.
2. SERVICE DISPARATE IMPACT POLICY:
A major service change should not adversely affect a minority population 10 percent more than
non-minority populations; this level of impact is considered a disparate impact
3. SERVICE DISPROPORTIONATE BURDEN POLICY:
A major service change should not adversely affect a low-income population 10 percent more than
non-low-income populations; this level of impact is considered a disproportionate burden. A lowincome population is a group of households who are at or below 150 percent of the Department of
Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines.
4. FARE DISPARATE IMPACT AND DISPROPORTIONATE BURDEN POLICY:
Per the policy, the difference in the adverse effects absorbed by minority and low-income persons
as a result of any fare price change or the average of multiple fare changes shall not be greater
than or less than 5% of impacts absorbed by the overall ridership.
If a proposed major service change or fare change results in a disparate impact or a disproportionate
burden, RTD will consider modifying the proposed service change. RTD will then analyze the
modification and make sure it removed the potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden. If a less
discriminatory option cannot be identified and RTD can demonstrate a substantial legitimate justification
for the proposed service change, the FTA may allow RTD to proceed with the proposed change.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Per FTA Circular 4702.1B Chapter IV.7, RTD must establish a Major Service Change Policy, a Disparate
Impact Policy, and a Disproportionate Burden Policy. Collectively, these policies provide foundational
requirements for evaluating service change proposals for equity.

Page 6

Packet Pg. 177

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

EQUITY ANALYSES COMPLETED

1. May 2019 Service Change
2. 2019 Fare Change
3. January 2018 Service Change
4. August 2018 Service Change
Each proposed service and fare change were evaluated for equity impacts prior to Board approval.

CONCLUSION
An equitable public transit system is a fair transit system, where services, resources, benefits, and impacts
are distributed with respect to transit demand, not race, color, national origin or income status. Staff seeks
to not only comply with these civil rights laws, but to enhance efforts to guarantee fairness in the delivery
of RTD’s services.
Below are the key initiatives to occur during the 2019 – 2022 reporting period include:




Transit Equity Training Program - Enhance inclusivity through cultural competency and implicit
bias training; prioritizing executive management, senior management and customer facing
employees
Preliminary Fare Equity Analysis: Cashless Fare System – an analysis of the equity implications
of implementing a cashless fare system



Inclusive Decision-Making Framework: Develop a set of policies and practices to facilitate full
public participation in major decisions (e.g. long range plans, service changes, fare changes,
policy development)



Internal Equity Taskforce: a cross-departmental assembly of internal leaders, focused on
identifying and responding to opportunities to promote equitable transit.



Safety and Security Community Relations Plan: build a trusting relationship with community;
inform safety and security policies and practices with community feedback



Language Assistance: engage communities to determine which language assistance tools and
practices can best ensure access to our services

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

This program update includes the results of both fare and service change equity analyses completed
between April 2016 and April 2019. Included with the results of each equity analysis are the proposed
changes and Board of Directors Meeting materials associated with the proposed change. Below is a list of
each proposed change that required an equity analysis during this reporting period:

During this reporting period, RTD performed extensive public engagement, completed several equity
analyses for major fare and service changes. This snapshot summarizes RTD’s effort to not only
comply with the requirements of FTA Circular 4702.1B, but to advance social equity through policy
and public engagement.
Page 7

Packet Pg. 178

2.11.B.b

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

APPENDIX I
DEMOGRAPHIC
PROFILE MAPS

Page 8

Packet Pg. 179

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 9

Packet Pg. 180

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 10

Packet Pg. 181

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 11

Packet Pg. 182

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 12

Packet Pg. 183

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 13

Packet Pg. 184

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 14

Packet Pg. 185

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 15

Packet Pg. 186

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 16

Packet Pg. 187

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 17

Packet Pg. 188

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 18

Packet Pg. 189

APPENDIX II
COMPLAINT SUMMARY

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 19

Packet Pg. 190

2.11.B.b

TITLE VI PROGRAM

2

UPDATE

0

APPENDIX:
COMPLAINT SUMMARY

1

Regional Transportation District

|

9

Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 20

Packet Pg. 191

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 21

Packet Pg. 192

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Federal recipients are also required to directly accept, log and investigate complaints of discrimination.
Further, recipients are required to notify the public of their right to complain and the procedures for
processing their complaint. Below is a copy of the Title VI public notice placed on all RTD vehicles, a
copy of complaint procedures, a table summarizing complaints received and the status of those
complaints (open, closed, etc.).

COMPLAINTS
LIST OF INVESTIGATIONS, LAWSUITS, AND COMPLAINTS

No.

Investigation/
Lawsuites/
Complaint

TVI Basis

Receipt Date

Status

Action Taken

1

Complaint

Race

November 01, 2017

Closed

No violation found.

2

Complaint

Race, Color

December 04, 2017

Closed

No violation found.

3

Complaint

Race, Color

January 03, 2018

Closed

No violation found.

4

Complaint

Race

January 05, 2018

Closed

No violation found.

January 25, 2018

Closed

Probable Cause found.

June 11, 2018

Closed

No Probable Cause
found.

July 31, 2018

Closed

No Probable Cause
found.

Race, Color,
National
Origin
Race, Color,
National
Origin
Race, Color,
National
Origin

5

Complaint

6

Complaint

7

Complaint

8

Complaint

National
Origin

August 17, 2018

Open

Under further
investigation

9

Complaint

National
Origin

January 11, 2019

Closed

Probable Cause found.

10

Complaint

Race, Color,
National
Origin

January 14, 2019

Closed

No Probable Cause
found.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

OVERVIEW

Page 22

Packet Pg. 193

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Complaint

National
Origin

March 01, 2019

Closed

No Probable Cause
found.

RTD posts its Title VI Public Notice on its website, fixed-route vehicles and sales outlets. Below is a
copy of the notice placed on RTD’s fixed-route vehicles, complaint form, complaint procedures displayed
on the RTD’s website. Each of these documents are available in other languages via the RTD website.
FIGURE 1 – TITLE VI PUBLIC NOTICE

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

11

Page 23

Packet Pg. 194

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

FIGURE 2 – COMPLAINT FORM

Page 24

Packet Pg. 195

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 25

Packet Pg. 196

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

FIGURE 3 – COMPLAINT PROCEDURES

Page 26

Packet Pg. 197

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 27

Packet Pg. 198

2.11.B.b

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

APPENDIX III
PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION PLAN

Page 28

Packet Pg. 199

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

APPENDIX: PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PLAN

Regional Transportation District

|

2
0
1
9

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TITLE VI PROGRAM
UPDATE

Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Page 29

Packet Pg. 200

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Equity is a core principle of the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) mission to provide mass transit
service in the Denver Metro Area. An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and
adverse effects of transit service without regard for race, color, national origin, or low-income status. This
principle is detailed and reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order
12898 pertaining to environmental justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national
origin in programs receiving federal financial assistance. Specifically, Title VI states, “No person in the
United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal
financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order 12898, which states that each federal agency “shall
make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing disproportionately
high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on
minority populations and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this
circular, the FTA requires that RTD document measures taken to comply with DOT’s Title VI regulations
by submitting a Title VI Program to their FTA regional civil rights officer once every three years or as
otherwise directed by FTA.
Included in this Title VI Program Update are a revised Public Participation Plan. This plans detail how
RTD engages minority populations, low-income populations, and populations that are LEP. The Public
Participation Plan also describes RTD’s approach to achieving diversity on its non-elected advisory
committee(s).

PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT OVERVIEW
As a federally funded public transit agency, the Regional Transportation District (RTD) works to
ensure that we are engaging our stakeholders in an authentic manner. We understand that many of our
riders are transit depend and rely solely on the service we provided. Our intention is to meet the riders
where they are, where they live and where they work, a tenet of RTD. As an agency, we are collectively
moving in a direction that meets stakeholders where they are so that we can fully understand their needs,
to provide the best service with the most benefit. We will do this by engaging all stakeholders,
specifically our most vulnerable and underserved populations, in the public decision-making process. As
an agency, we want to ensure that we are moving in a direction that builds, establishes and maintains trust
amongst all our stakeholders. Our future is in the direction of equity in transit, to be a catalyst for
leadership in the engagement of minority and low-income populations.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TITLE VI AND ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Page 30

Packet Pg. 201

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

The agency’s objective is to establish a more robust public engagement strategy with the ultimate goal of
forging positive new relationships and strengthening existing relationships with riders and stakeholders.
Each year, RTD sees nearly 105 million passenger boardings in a 2,340-square-mile service area—one of
the largest in the United States—and serves 2.87 million citizens in 40 municipalities in the diverse
counties of Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Jefferson, Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas and Weld. Our riders and
stakeholders depend on us to keep them informed of new technology, proposed service changes and major
policy decisions.
Involved in this agency-wide effort are bus and train operators; fare enforcement officers; service
planners; marketing executives; urban planners; project engineers; sustainability strategists; customer care
agents; other civil rights managers (Americans with Disabilities Act, Equal Employment Opportunity);
event planners; public relations staff; senior managers and the RTD Board of Directors.
RTD’s Title VI program will also play a leading role in this effort by identifying, reaching out to and
working with transit-dependent communities, including low-income riders, communities of color and
limited English proficiency (LEP) communities living and working in all eight counties served by the
RTD transit system.
This document outlines our target audiences, departments responsible for informing and engaging with
the public, and existing and desired public outreach strategies we hope to implement over the next several
years.

RTD’S TARGET AUDIENCES













Everyday Transit Users
Bus and train operators
Business community, including small (SBE) and disadvantaged (DBE) business enterprises
Community groups
Industry partners
Local governments
Neighborhood associations
News media
Nonprofits
Prime contractors and subcontractors
Prospective program participants
RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

As an agency, RTD works to incorporate effective, responsive public engagement into its core mission of
providing safe, clean, efficient, affordable and reliable bus and rail service to all passengers. Our 15member Board of Directors, senior managers and employees play a critical role in responding as quickly
as possible to the questions, concerns and transit needs of the entire region. Engaging effectively with
riders, stakeholders and the public through our decision-making processes and day-to-day services are
important goals.

Page 31

Packet Pg. 202

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
Salaried and represented staff
School districts and colleges
Senior leadership team
Stakeholder groups
Transportation management associations (TMAs) and organizations (TMOs)
Underserved, low-income, LEP and communities of color

EXISTING PUBLIC OUTREACH
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT DIVISION
Public Relations responds to formal (open record) and informal requests for information from the news
media, the general public, elected officials and other stakeholders about RTD operations. The department
takes the lead on strategic communication and public outreach to advance the RTD name, brand and
reputation and develops crisis communication strategies. Public Relations and Community Engagement
plan, organize and staff dozens of annual and special public events and gives public presentations around
the Denver metro region. They produce magazine stories for transportation trade publications; newspaper
op-ed pieces; speeches; talking points for media spokespeople; fact sheets; communication plans; news
releases; media advisories; blog columns; web content; e-blasts; invitations; video scripts and
storytelling; newsletters; and other communication collateral designed to relay essential messages to
employees, board directors, senior managers, stakeholders, riders and the general public. They also act as
communication liaisons for all RTD divisions—including public engagement support for Civil Rights and
the Transit-Oriented Development Divisions.

MARKETING
The RTD Marketing department oversees the creation of all advertising, marketing and public outreach
materials for PR, PI and other departments, and develops effective messaging to keep the public,
stakeholders, employees and the RTD Board of Directors apprised of all important agency initiatives.
Marketing is also highly involved in promotional special events related to RTD anniversaries, rider
appreciation events, station parties along new transit corridors and the openings of new transit facilities. It
oversees customer satisfaction and market research, and leads efforts to improve RTD’s Nonprofit
Program, which provides millions of dollars’ worth of free and reduced fares for nonprofits serving lowincome, homeless and other transit-dependent riders. Marketing account executives work closely with
other RTD departments to produce or order brochures, posters, maps, fliers, promotional giveaways and
other print materials that help the agency keep the public informed of all initiatives. The department also
leads digital marketing efforts such as the maintenance and updating of the RTD website, blogs, and the
agency’s social media channels, communicates directly with riders and stakeholders through a database,
and leads public communication efforts on technology rollouts.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)








Page 32

Packet Pg. 203

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Customer Care oversees RTD’s telephone information center, where dozens of employees answer
telephone calls every day from riders and others seeking information about the agency’s fares, services
and policies. Customer Care agents are available 6 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 9 a.m. to 6
p.m. on weekends and holidays. The agency’s customer service representatives are at the frontline of
RTD’s efforts to keep the public informed of its operations, FasTracks projects, technology, service hours
and many other issues.

SERVICE PLANNING
Service Planning oversees the scheduling of all bus and rail operations for the RTD system. The division
reaches out to the public three times a year (and more when new transit corridors open) when it is
planning system-wide and targeted service changes. Federal regulations require that RTD notify the
public of proposed service changes when they affect 25 percent or more of a service route’s hours.
Service Planning’s approach to public engagement entails public meetings in communities where service
changes are under consideration. The division also schedules meetings at RTD headquarters at noon and
again at 6 p.m. to give citizens who work in the downtown area opportunities to offer input on proposed
service changes. RTD is required to advertise public meetings two weeks before they take place. RTD is
required to notify the public of service changes six weeks before they go into effect. Upon request,
Service Planning provides interpretation for Spanish speakers and the deaf and hard-of-hearing. The
division works closely with marketing to publicize public meetings in local newspapers and via trans-flux
window clings hung in all RTD vehicles. The division also notifies local municipalities of proposed
service changes, which is a requirement of Federal Transit Administration (FTA) regulations.

SPECIAL SERVICES
This department within the Service Planning Division is responsible for working with the public to ensure
RTD meets the needs of passengers with disabilities through its Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services.
The Special Services manager engages with the public regularly and proactively and upon request by
advocacy groups that want to ensure RTD is complying with federal ADA requirements.

BUS STOP PROGRAM
This program works with a coalition of groups advocating for the blind when it comes to ensuring that
signs posted at bus stops and stations are ADA compliant. Program managers vet proposed new signs
with these groups and incorporate their feedback into new designs before RTD posts signs for existing
and new services.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

CUSTOMER CARE

TRANSIT-ORIENTED COMMUNITIES DIVISION
This Planning Department engages in public engagement through its Transit-Oriented Communities
(TOC) Division to ensure RTD is compliant with federal regulations designed to incorporate the needs
Page 33

Packet Pg. 204

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION
The Civil Rights Division is highly involved with public engagement through its Small Business Office
(SBO) and its Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Manager’s Office. The SBO oversees the
division’s monthly Disadvantaged and Small Business Enterprise Advisory Council (DBEAC) meeting,
where RTD staff network with the small businesses that are contractors on projects and/or provide
maintenance services to RTD through its procurement office. Civil Rights staff attends local, regional and
national networking events to stay abreast of industry trends, issues and regulations and hosts its own
events to keep the community informed of RTD’s efforts to support and advance the success of small
businesses—and communities and individuals in the process—across the district. The division’s ADA
Manager’s Office oversees RTD’s compliance with Title‘s I & II of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA). In addition to these efforts the ADA office also assists with proactive efforts through public
information and collaboration, complementary paratransit service, and accessibility to
vehicles/facilities/transit. This includes the newly created RTD Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities and Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee. As members for these committees are
selected, RTD will seek to recruit a diverse representation of the community.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OFFICE
The RTD Board of Directors is a publicly elected governing board whose members serve four-year terms
up to two terms in a row. Members represent RTD’s 15 districts across the eight-county Denver
metropolitan region. The board interacts with the public regularly during its weekly public meetings, at
special events and on a one-on-one basis with community, business and trade groups, stakeholders and
individual constituents. Members also submit op-ed pieces to local newspapers, give speeches at special
events, and respond to public inquiries at board meetings

RTD ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
RTD believes in and is committed to the public involvement process including the use of community
advisory committees, panels and boards. Each advisory group is tailored to meet the specific needs of its
program or activity. During the formation of these advisory groups, RTD consistently seeks participation
from minorities by directly soliciting organizations which represent minorities. Currently, RTD appoints
members of the public to the following advisory groups/committees.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

and viewpoints of communities of color and low-income and LEP communities. Staff members excel at
articulating public impact issues surrounding the planning, construction and implementation of new
transit corridors and are highly involved with policy development and other efforts geared toward
layering public input into their decision-making process. As an example, the Planning Division oversaw
RTD’s most recent Pass Program Study, which included management of the Pass Program Working
Group and the development of the final fare change proposal. Included in that process was a robust public
engagement process that included numerous public meetings in every quadrant of the RTD region.

Page 34

Packet Pg. 205

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE (CAC)

1. Continue to monitor and provide input on the improvements for each corridor in the FasTracks
Plan.
2. Become familiar with the District's strategic plan and long-term vision.
3. Provide region-oriented advice to RTD regarding the implementation of the strategic plan, its
strategies and initiatives.
4. Represent the citizen perspective on behalf of a wide range of stakeholder interests and community
organizations
5. Gather information from community members to share with the agency.
6. Share information with community members to promote public awareness of the agency's programs
and projects.
7. Other tasks as assigned by the RTD Board of Directors
Recruitment for committee members is publicly advertised through the RTD Web site, local publications,
and stakeholder e-mail distributions. Applicants submit a one-page letter stating their interest in being
considered for membership, specific qualifications for serving on the committee, and highlights of related
experience and expertise, along with a resume if available.
A five-member nominating committee reviews the applications and forwards a slate of candidates to the
Board of Directors for appointment. The nominating committee consists of the following positions:
1. RTD Board Chairman or Board member designee
2. RTD FasTracks Monitoring Committee Chair or Board member designee
3. RTD General Manager or staff designee
4. RTD Assistant General Manager for Planning or staff designee
5. RTD Public Information/Public Involvement Consultant liaison (will provide administrative
support and serve as a non-voting member of the nominating committee.)
Appointment are made to ensure a broad representation of stakeholder interests, to achieve diversity, and
to provide geographical representation within the district. Selection criteria to be considered by the
nominating committee includes, but is not limited to, a demonstrated interest in public transit and/or the
FasTracks Plan, previous community service, experience in working with local jurisdictions on regional
issues, and professional experience.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

The RTD Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) monitors and provides region-oriented advice on the
FasTracks Plan and RTD’s strategic plan. It represents citizen and community perspectives on transit
issues, and promotes public awareness of RTD’s programs, services and projects. The 17-member
volunteer committee represents a cross-section of the region’s population and holds monthly work
sessions in pursuit of the following:

Page 35

Packet Pg. 206

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
Vacancies are also filled using the above process for the remainder of the unexpired term, which, if it is
longer than one and one-half years, shall be considered a full term.

Race/Ethnicity

Percentage of
Representation

African American/Black

18%

Asian/ Pacific Islander

12%

Caucasian/White

59%

Hispanic/Latino

12%

Native American/
American Indian

0%

Other

0%

PASS PROGRAM WORKING GROUP
In September of 2015 the Board of Directors instructed Staff to form a Pass Program Working Group
(PPWG) to help comprehensively review and recommend changes to pass programs in collaboration with
the Affordable Fares Taskforce. The working group included members of RTD staff and external
stakeholders representing schools, businesses, municipalities, neighborhood groups and advocacy
organizations. The Board approved the following guiding principles to focus the working group: brand
loyalty, convenience, cost-effectiveness, equitable access, increased ridership, an ability to meet strategic
budget plan targets, revenue certainty and simplifying rider-operator interactions.
RTD convened 12 full working group meetings in twelve months. RTD advertised each working group
meeting to the public, inviting public comment at the beginning of each meeting to help inform the
working group as they developed their recommendations.
The group formulated several options, all of which were modeled by a consultant for their impact on total
fare revenue and ridership. After reaching consensus, staff provided an overview of the group’s
recommendation to the Board in March of 2018.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TABLE – CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE RACIAL BREAKDOWN

Working group members were selected for their connection to region-wide questions/interest
groups/constituencies and their ability to bring a big-picture view of the pass program questions. They
were selected for their level of interest in these questions and the depth of their experience with RTD.

Page 36

Packet Pg. 207

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
They were selected for their ability to work collaboratively, seek collective impact and build consensus.
Moreover, RTD sought a group that reflects the diversity of the region.

Race/Ethnicity

Percentage of
Representation

African American/Black

18%

Asian/ Pacific Islander

5%

Caucasian/White

64%

Hispanic/Latino

14%

Native American/Indian

0%

Other

0%

RTD PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT: NEXT STEPS
It is an exciting time for RTD as we pursue new and innovative transportation solutions to meet the needs
of the region. New long-range planning initiatives (Transportation Transformation), adaptations to
FlexRide operations, and partnerships with private and public transportation interests are great initiatives
catalyzing major changes for RTD. These initiatives also come with the risk of unintentional and
unjustifiable, exclusion based on race, color, national origin and income status. RTD will mitigate this
risk by developing a practice of inclusive decision-making.
The Planning Department will lead the development of an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework. This
framework will establish a policy and set of practices that seek to include and consult the full spectrum of
the public before the district makes critical decisions. Critical decisions include policies, projects, and any
activity that has the potential to significantly impact (beneficially or adversely) the communities we serve.
Through an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework, we can reap the following benefits:
1. Collective Understanding – The community and RTD empathize with one another, understanding
an initiative from both perspectives, beyond the limitations of quantitative data

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TABLE – PASS PROGRAM WORKING GROUP RACIAL BREAKDOWN

2. Managed Expectations – The community learns the limitations of RTD and understand how well
specific solutions may address community needs

Page 37

Packet Pg. 208

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
3. Better Decisions – Collective understanding allows RTD to better tailor actions to the exact needs
of the community
4. Community Buy-In – Communities can support, promote, defend, and fund solutions they took
part in developing

6. Increased Public Satisfaction – The public can find satisfaction with actions they help tailor to
their needs
Most immediately, this framework will aid RTD’s decision-making in the following initiatives:




Transportation Transformation/Systems Optimization Plan
Ongoing Service Changes
2022 Fare Change Assessment

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

5. Legal Risk Mitigation – We limit the opportunity for unintended discriminatory actions when
vulnerable communities participate in the decision-making process.

Page 38

Packet Pg. 209

2.11.B.b

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

APPENDIX IV
LANGUAGE
ASSISTANCE PLAN

Page 39

Packet Pg. 210

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

APPENDIX:
LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE PLAN
Regional Transportation District

|

2
0
1
9

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TITLE VI PROGRAM
UPDATE

Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Page 40

Packet Pg. 211

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., provides that no person in the United
States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied
the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity that receives
Federal financial assistance. The Supreme Court, in Lau v. Nichols, 414 U.S. 563 (1974), interpreted Title
VI regulations promulgated by the former Department of Health, Education, and Welfare to hold that
Title VI prohibits conduct that has a disproportionate effect on Limited English Proficient (LEP) persons
because such conduct constitutes national origin discrimination.
Individuals, who have a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English are Limited English
Proficient, or ‘‘LEP.” Executive Order 13166, “Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited
English Proficiency,” reprinted at 65 FR 50121, August 16, 2000 directs each Federal agency to examine
the services it provides and develop and implement a system by which LEP persons can meaningfully
access those services. Federal agencies were instructed to publish guidance for their respective recipients
in order to assist them with their obligations to LEP persons under Title VI. The Executive Order states
that recipients must take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to their programs and activities by
LEP persons.
The U.S. Department of Transportation published revised guidance for its recipients on December 14,
2005. This document states that Title VI and its implementing regulations require that DOT recipients
take responsible steps to ensure meaningful access to the benefits, services, information, and other
important portions of their programs and activities for individuals who are Limited English Proficient
(LEP) and that recipients should use the DOT LEP Guidance to determine how best to comply with
statutory and regulatory obligations to provide meaningful access to the benefits, services, information,
and other important portions of their programs and activities for individuals who are LEP.
The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) references the DOT LEP guidance in its Circular 4702.1B,
“Title VI Requirements and Guidelines for FTA Recipients,” which took effect on October 1, 2012.
Chapter III part 9 of this Circular reiterates the requirement to take responsible steps to ensure meaningful
access to benefits, services, and information for LEP persons and suggests that FTA recipients and sub
recipients develop a language implementation plan consistent with the provisions of Section VII of the
DOT LEP Guidance.
RTD’s provision of language assistance to persons with limited in English proficiency in a competent and
effective manner will help ensure services are safe, reliable, convenient, and accessible to those persons.
These efforts may attract riders who would otherwise be excluded from utilizing services because of
language barriers and, ideally, will encourage riders to continue using the system after they are proficient
in English and/or have more transportation options.
Providing language assistance to LEP persons may also help increase and retain ridership among the
RTD’s broader immigrant communities in two important ways:

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

BACKGROUND

Page 41

Packet Pg. 212

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
1. Reaching out to recent immigrant populations in order to conduct a needs assessment and prepare
a language implementation plan (pursuant to the DOT LEP Guidance) will send a positive message
to these persons that their business is valued.

Additionally, conducting outreach to LEP persons can increase the potential for recruiting bilingual
employees to better serve the needs of the RTD service area. In summary, serving the needs of LEP
persons is not only a good business decision; it fulfills the mission of the district to serve the public.
Regional Transportation District (RTD) supports the goals of the DOT LEP Guidance to provide
meaningful access to its services by LEP persons. RTD has devoted significant resources to provide oral
and written language assistance services to LEP individuals. A substantial effort to provide meaningful
access to LEP populations has been underway for several years. This document describes how RTD will
continue to provide meaningful access to its transit services.

MONITORING AND UPDATING THE LAP
The DOT guidance also states that recipients should, where appropriate, have a process for determining,
on an ongoing basis, whether new documents, programs, services, and activities need to be made
accessible for LEP individuals, and they may want to provide notice of any changes in services to the
LEP community and their employees. RTD believes that the size of the service area, consistent changes in
demographics and frequency of changes to transit services warrants regular reassessment of this
Language Assistance Plan (LAP).
RTD is revising a basic information webpage so LEP persons can access vital documents such as safety
information, fare purchase information, service changes, and safety and security information.
Additionally, RTD is in the process of creating “How to Ride” guides which will explain how to utilize
RTD’s services in a step-by-step manner. The guides will be created in multiple languages and available
to the public to ensure meaningful access by LEP persons.
RTD intends to explore the provision of cultural competency training for staff to address the potential for
harm to LEP persons due to linguistic and cultural barriers. Trainings will target topics such as cultural
competency and implicit bias to prevent discrimination on the basis of national origin.
In 2019 RTD will conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey which will estimate the percentage of
boardings represented by LEP persons. Through the survey, riders who speak a language other than
English at home also rate how well they speak English.
As previously mentioned, continued market research is essential to the effectiveness of this plan. On an
annual basis, RTD will revisit the demographic information from the U.S. Census Bureau, the State of
Colorado, community organizations and LEP persons in an effort to remain in tune with the needs of LEP
populations.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2. Community outreach designed to identify appropriate language assistance measures can also assist
RTD in identifying the transportation needs of immigrant and linguistically isolated populations
ensuring that transit routes, hours and days of service, and other service parameters are responsive
to the needs of these populations.

Page 42

Packet Pg. 213

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

FOUR FACTOR ANALYSIS

I.
II.
III.
IV.

Identify the proportion of LEP Persons in RTD’s Service Area
Determine the Frequency of Contact by LEP Persons with RTD Services
Determine the Nature and Importance of Transit
Assess the Current Resources and the Costs to Provide Language Assistance Services

RTD has conducted the Four-Factor analysis using a combination of market research resources which
consists of an evaluation of data from the U.S. Census Bureau, interviews with RTD staff, consultation
with Colorado State agencies, consultation with community organizations and direct interactions with
people limited in English proficiency. The results of this analysis will be used as the criteria for the
development of the appropriate mix of language assistance measures to be employed by RTD.

FACTOR I. IDENTIFICATION OF LEP INDIVIDUALS IN RTD SERVICE AREA
WHO NEED LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
DOT Guidance: “There should be an assessment of the number or proportion of LEP individuals eligible to be served
or encountered and the frequency of encounters pursuant to the first two factors in the four-factor analysis.
An assessment of the number or proportion of LEP individuals eligible to be served by RTD is an
important first step. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, of the 2,8 million people in the RTD service
area, approximately 228,180, over 8% of the RTD service area population, speaks English “less than very
well”3. The following points identify other notable findings from the assessment of the number and
proportion of LEP persons in the RTD Service Area:






Approximately 329,000 persons, over 11% percent of the RTD service area population, are foreign
born.
Approximately 486,000 persons, over 17% of the RTD service area population, speak a language
other than English at home.
West Denver, CO, East Lakewood, CO and Northwest Aurora, CO have the highest concentrations
of LEP persons, containing multiple census tracts with LEP Populations exceeding 2,000.
Overwhelming, Spanish speakers represent the largest population of LEP persons in the RTD
Service Area and the State of Colorado.
High rates of refugee resettlement are increasing the population of LEP persons and diversity of
languages spoken in the RTD service area.

Overall, this assessment has revealed an increase in the amount of languages reaching the Safe Harbor
Threshold of 1,000 LEP persons. Accordingly, RTD will translate its vital documents into each language

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Per DOT Guidance, transit providers must determine the language assistance needs of the LEP persons
they serve. DOT guidance also requires that recipients utilize a four-factor analysis to make this
determination. The assessment involves the following factors:

3 American Community Survey B16001 – Language Spoken at Home by Ability to Speak English for the

Population 5 Years and Over

Page 43

Packet Pg. 214

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
reaching the Safe Harbor Threshold, as specified in the DOT LEP guidance. The chart below displays
those LEP populations, by language, with populations ≥ 1,0004.

French

2,082

Other Asian Languages

4,350

Arabic

2,975

African Languages

7,657

Russian

5,907

Korean

6,031

Chinese

8,639

Vietnemese

9,934

160,041

Spanish
0

50,000

100,000

150,000

200,000

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

CHART 1 – LANGUAGES WITH LEP POPULATIONS ≥ 1,000

4American Community Survey B16001 – Language Spoken at Home by Ability to Speak English for the
Population 5 Years and Over
Page 44

Packet Pg. 215

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 1: DISTRIBUTION OF ALL LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENT* SPEAKERS (AGE
5+)*ENGLISH SPOKEN LESS THAN “VERY WELL”

Page 45

Packet Pg. 216

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 2: DISTRIBUTION OF SPANISH SPEAKERS (AGE 5+) WHO ARE LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENT

Page 46

Packet Pg. 217

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 3: DISTRIBUTION OF VIETNAMESE SPEAKERS (AGE 5+) WHO ARE LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENT

Page 47

Packet Pg. 218

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 4: DISTRIBUTION OF CHINESE SPEAKERS (AGE 5+) WHO ARE LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENT

*English spoken less than “very well”
Page 48

Packet Pg. 219

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 5: DISTRIBUTION OF KOREAN SPEAKERS (AGE 5+) WHO ARE LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENT

Page 49

Packet Pg. 220

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FIGURE 6: DISTRIBUTION OF RUSSIAN SPEAKERS (AGE 5+) WHO ARE LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENT

*English spoken less than “very well”
Page 50

Packet Pg. 221

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

DOT Guidance: “Recipients should assess, as accurately as possible, the frequency with which they have or should
have contact with LEP individuals from different language groups seeking assistance, as the more frequent the
contact, the more likely enhanced language services will be needed. The steps that are reasonable for a recipient
that serves an LEP person on a one-time basis will be very different than those expected from a recipient that serves
LEP persons daily.

RTD has collected general information regarding the frequency in which LEP individuals come in contact
with RTD services. For purposes of this assessment, the following data sources were used to estimate the
frequency of encounters by LEP persons with RTD services:





Customer Satisfaction Survey Data
Telephone Information Center Data
Website Visitation Data
LEP Survey

RTD TELEPHONE INFORMATION CENTER DATA
RTD’s Telephone Information Center (TIC) is one of many ways RTD fulfills its commitment to
providing quality customer service to all of its potential transit users. RTD’s TIC has 47 full-time
Information Specialists answering incoming calls from customers requesting route information, filing
complaints, making suggestions and comments for response by e-mail, telephone and/or mail.
Presently, TIC has experienced a limited demand for language assistance. TIC does accommodate LEP
Spanish speakers by staffing 20 full-time bilingual Information Specialists. However, the demand for
language assistance from Spanish speakers seems low, given the proportion of LEP Spanish speakers in
the RTD service area.
In 2018, the TIC received 871,592 calls, but approximately 19,540 (2.24%) of those calls required
language assistance for Spanish speakers. In July 2018 RTD’s TIC converted to Pure Cloud, a new call
queue system which does not track the number of calls received in Spanish. It is estimated the calls from
August to December stayed relatively the same. RTD is currently investigating new methods to track
called received in Spanish.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

FACTOR II. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT BY LEP PERSONS WITH RTD’S
SERVICES

Page 51

Packet Pg. 222

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

CHART 2 – PHONE CALLS RECEIVED IN ENGLISH AND SPANISH

SPANISH

Month

Calls

Month

Calls

Jan-18

78,915

Jan-18

1,664

Feb-18

71,736

Feb-18

1,525

Mar-18

77,709

Mar-18

1,661

Apr-18

71,396

Apr-18

1,638

May-18

76,392

May-18

1,928

Jun-18

73,021

Jun-18

1,705

*Jul-18

55,984

*Jul-18

1,279

Aug-18

77,526

Aug-18

Sept-18

69,554

Sept-18

Oct-18

73,105

Oct-18

Nov-18

69,126

Nov-18

Dec-18

65,192

Dec-18

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

ENGLISH

*Converted to PureCloud on July 27,, 2018 (partial July number)

Page 52

Packet Pg. 223

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

73105

69554

77526

65728

69126

55984

73021

76392

71396

77709

71736

78915

English

1279

1705

1928

1638

1661

1525

1664

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

2018 TIC PHONE CALLS
Spanish

Page 53

Packet Pg. 224

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
RTD WEBSITE VISITATION DATA
In 2015 we had a total of 47 million page views, 16.5 million sessions, and 5.7 million users on the RTD
website (www.RTD-denver.com). Over the same period of time we had 5,500 translations of the website
using our Google Website Translator tool, or about 0.03% of sessions.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Spanish: 70%
Japanese: 15%
Taiwanese Mandarin: 5%
German: 5%
French: 2.5%
Vietnamese: 2.5%
Italian: 0%
Korean: 0%
Russian: 0%

Spanish represents the bulk of the translations, while Italian, Korean and Russian had very little evident
usage.
Most web browsers have started offering in-browser website translation tools. Thus it’s quite likely that
there are many more users who are viewing a translated version of the website through their browser.
Consequently, we’re unable to track all translated sessions. We expect this trend to continue. We are able
to see what default language the user’s browser is set to, providing some indication of the amount of inbrowser translation. Here’s a breakdown of our user’s browser language settings:
1. English: 99.02%
2. Spanish: 0.65%
3. Taiwanese Mandarin: 0.14%
4. German: 0.1%
5. French: 0.1%
6. Japanese: 0.08%
7. Korean: 0.04%
8. Italian: 0.03%
9. Russian: 0.03%
10. Vietnamese: <0.01%
The portion of users with a non-English language configured in their browser (1% of sessions) is
significantly higher than the portion of users that used our Google Website Translation tool (0.03% of
sessions). These users are most likely using their in-browser translation tools as opposed to the Google
Website Translate tool.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Below is a breakdown of the languages the RTD website was translated to. These percentages are based
on a sampling of the total website sessions and only .03% of those sessions actually used translate.

Page 54

Packet Pg. 225

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019
LEP SURVEY

This exercise indicated that 2.62% of passenger boardings are interactions between a passenger with
Limited English Proficiency (LEP) and an RTD bus operator. The larger percentage of those that speak
English less than well using RTD services than are indicated in the ACS data may show that those with
Limited English are drawn to RTD’s services. However, the much lower rate of LEP passenger and bus
operator interactions, 2.6%, may indicate that despite having Limited English Proficiency, customers are
able to utilize RTD services.
While results may not be reliable at the route level, there seems to be a relationship between the count of
Limited English Proficiency passenger interactions and the degree to which the specific route passes
through areas identified in the most recent American Community Survey as having a high rate of
residents born outside the U.S. While being born outside the U.S. is not equivalent to the rate of Limited
English Proficiency, density of individuals may be indicative of Limited English Proficiency resident
density.

FACTOR III. NATURE AND IMPORTANCE OF TRANSIT
Police, fire and medical emergency services are essential; however public transit is a key means of
achieving mobility for many LEP persons. To obtain a better understanding of the nature and importance
of RTD services and programs to LEP persons, various government agencies and community
organizations were consulted. Government agencies consulted was the Colorado Refugee Services
Program (CRSP) and community organizations like Colorado Progressive Coalition (CPC) have provided
significant anecdotal information.
Through consultation with various organizations RTD has found the trends of immigrants in Colorado to
be consistent with nationwide trends amongst immigrants. Many immigrants desire to switch from public
transit to automobile use because personal vehicles are a symbol of assimilation and cars can provide
greater mobility or access to economic and social opportunities that are beyond a transit system’s service
area. Recent immigrants might elect to continue using public transit for at least a portion of their trips if
their experience is positive. For transit agencies seeking to increase their “choice riders,” it may be easier
to retain riders who have past, positive impressions of the system than to attract those persons who have
never or rarely used transit. Catering to LEP persons may help to increase and retain ridership among
RTD’s immigrant communities.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

In order to assess the frequency of RTD patrons with Limited English Proficiency (LEP), RTD fixed
route bus operators were asked to record the number of interactions with customers where language
presented an obstacle to understanding or fulfilling the customers’ request during the week of August 5th,
2013.There was excellent participation in this effort among operators, with 82.4% of the survey cards
distributed to operators being returned (1347 survey cards returned of 1635 survey cards distributed).

Direct consultation with LEP persons has shown that LEP persons who use transit are substantially
dependent upon fixed route bus service. In fact, the areas with the highest concentrations of LEP persons
are densely populated and heavily served by RTD Local Bus Service.
Page 55

Packet Pg. 226

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

FACTOR IV. AVAILABLE RESOURCES AND COSTS OF PROVIDING
LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES

RTD is committed to assuring that resources are used to reduce the barriers that limit access to its
information and services by LEP persons. To date, RTD has taken many steps to provide language
services. Unfortunately, all costs associated with the provision of language assistance haven’t been
tracked, but a general assessment has allowed for RTD to determine the approximate amount of related
LEP related expenditures.
RTD roughly estimates that it spends $2,500 on the translation of documents, translation of marketing
material and accommodation of requests for oral translation. Written and oral translation services are
relatively inexpensive for Spanish, French and Russian; while Korean, Mandarin, Vietnamese and
African Languages are generally more costly.

FURTHER MARKET RESEARCH
RTD is committed to increasing its awareness of its interaction with LEP communities within the RTD
service area through further focused market research. In 2019, RTD will be conducting another Customer
Satisfaction Survey, where physical and web-based surveys will be offered in multiple languages.
Additionally, RTD is attempting to identify funding to conduct focus groups to obtain a more detailed
perspective of large LEP populations (5,000 or more).

LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE MEASURES EMPLOYED BY RTD
DOT Guidance: “An effective LEP plan would likely include information about the ways in which language assistance
will be provided.
RTD supports the goals of the DOT LEP Guidance to provide meaningful access to its services by LEP
persons. Accordingly, will immediately begin the implementation of its Language Assistance Plan, using
tools and resources currently available and develop new mechanisms to assist in the provision of
meaningful access to RTD services to LEP communities as needed. RTD currently offers a number of
language assistance services, including, but not limited to:




Interpretation Services
Written Translations
Public Outreach and Communications

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

DOT Guidance: A recipient’s level of resources and the costs imposed may have an impact on the nature of the
steps it should take in providing meaningful access for LEP persons. Smaller recipients with more limited budgets are
not expected to provide the same level of language services as larger recipients with larger budgets. In addition,
``reasonable steps’’ may cease to be reasonable where the costs imposed substantially exceed the benefits.

Page 56

Packet Pg. 227

2.11.B.b

Title VI Program Update 2019

Advertising the availability of language assistance services will be key to ensuring LEP persons are able
to meaningfully access RTD services. RTD will notify LEP communities by posting signage at all major
passenger transfer stations, RTD’s administrative offices, and other RTD properties with high volumes of
pedestrian traffic. Furthermore, RTD will utilize its website and the relationships developed with
community organizations that assist LEP persons, to propagate the offering of language assistance
services by RTD.

TRAINING STAFF
The DOT guidance states that employees should know their obligations to provide meaningful access to
information and services for LEP persons, and all employees in public contact positions should be
properly trained. RTD intends to include training to ensure that:



Staff knows about LEP policies and procedures.
Staff having contact with the public (or those in a recipient’s custody) is trained to work effectively
with in-person and telephone interpreters.

As noted in the Four-Factor Analysis, RTD mainly encounters LEP persons byway of its Local Bus
Service. RTD’s vehicle operator training courses do provide general skills for handling LEP persons.
Fortunately, RTD’s workforce well reflects the diversity of the community it serves, as many operators
are multilingual and can often assist LEP persons directly.
It’s reasonable to anticipate that more complex interaction with LEP persons will occur with receptionists,
sales associates, transit security and other frontline staff. These frontline employees will have more
detailed procedures and sophisticated tools for managing interactions with LEP persons to include, but
not limited to:





Census “I Speak” cards
Written translations of vital and frequently requested documents
A contact list of bilingual employees
Pictograms

As RTD gains a greater perspective of the needs of the LEP community, enhancement to training
materials, tools and resources will be provided.

TRANSLATION OF VITAL DOCUMENTS
Whether or not a document (or the information it solicits) is “vital” will depend on the importance
of the program, information, encounter, or service involved, and the consequence to the LEP person if
the information in question is not accurate or timely disseminated. For instance, applications for a bicycle
safety course would not generally be considered vital, although summaries of major service changes will
be vital documents. Other vital documents include but are not limited to:

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

NOTIFICATION OF OFFERED LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES

Page 57

Packet Pg. 228

2.11.B.b








Title VI Public Notice
Title VI Complaint Procedures
Bus and Rail schedules
Summaries and notices of public hearings regarding proposed:
o Transportation plans
o Service impacting construction activities
o Major service changes
o Fare changes.
Emergency transportation information

RTD will consistently work with community organizations and the LEP populations the serve to evaluate
which documents are “vital” to the meaningful access to RTD services and programs.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update (Complete) (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI Program Update 2019

Page 58

Packet Pg. 229

TITLE VI PROGRAM UPDATE
APPENDIX: TRANSIT
MONITORING

May 2019
Equitable distribution of transit service is a core principle of the
Regional Transportation District. This document describes the measures
taken to promote equitable transit service as stipulated by Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.c

(Environmental Justice).

By The Transit-Oriented Communities Division

Packet Pg. 230

2.11.B.c

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................................ 2
Title VI and Environmental Justice ......................................................................................................... 2
Service Standards and Transit Monitoring Overview ....................................................................... 2
Service Frequency Standards and Monitoring ................................................................................... 3
On-Time Performance Standard and Monitoring Results ................................................................. 4
Vehicle Load Standard ........................................................................................................................... 5
Vehicle Assignment ................................................................................................................................... 6
Area Coverage Standard ...................................................................................................................... 7
Minimum Service Levels ........................................................................................................................ 7
Maximum Target Service Levels ......................................................................................................... 8
Transit Amenities Policy ........................................................................................................................... 9

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Packet Pg. 231

2.11.B.c

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Equity is a core principle of the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) mission to provide mass transit service in
the Denver Metro Area. An equitable mass transit system fairly distributes the benefits and adverse effects of
transit service without regard for race, color, national origin, or low-income status. This principle is detailed and
reinforced by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
and Executive Order 12898 pertaining to
environmental justice.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national
origin in programs receiving federal financial
assistance. Specifically, Title VI states, “No person in the
United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or
national origin, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination
under any program or activity receiving Federal
financial assistance.”
In 1994, President Clinton issued Executive Order
12898, which states that each federal agency “shall
make achieving environmental justice part of its mission
by identifying and addressing disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of
its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations and low-income populations.”
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial assistance
with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI and Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires
that RTD document measures taken to comply with DOT’s Title VI regulations by submitting a Title VI Program
to their FTA regional civil rights officer once every three years or as otherwise directed by FTA.

Service Standards and Transit Monitoring Overview
FTA Circular 4702.1b Chapter VI requires fixed-route service providers of Urbanized Areas with a population
of 200,000 or more to establish service standards and monitor their service to ensure service is provided
accordingly. Service standards guide fixed-route service providers toward objective decision-making in the
provision of service. The FTA further expects transit agencies to monitor their services to ensure service is
provided in a non-discriminatory manner. Service is monitored by comparing a sampling of non-minority routes
and minority routes, defined as 1/3 of revenue mileage borders census blocks with a minority population
greater than the service area average. No disparities were found during the transit monitoring of this reporting
period.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Title VI and Environmental Justice

2

Packet Pg. 232

2.11.B.c

Service Frequency Standards and Monitoring

TABLE – MINIMUM RIDERSHIP STANDARDS

Service Class
CBD Local (Per Hour)
Urban Local (Per Hour)
Suburban Local (Per Hour)
Regional (Per Trip)
Rail (Per Hour)

Boardings
Per Hour or Per Trip
10% Min
25% Min
20.5
26.1
18.5
23.0
6.8
16.1
7.9
18.0
33.2
54.4

These standards are derived from system averages by class of service. All routes must meet their applicable
minimum standards. Those routes that do not meet these standards will need to be modified or marketed in
some way in order to bring them up to the minimum standards. Those that are not brought up to the minimum
standards are subject to cancellation. Routes that meet their applicable minimum ridership standards justify a
service level at the minimum service frequencies.
The following table indicates the minimum frequency standard for types of service and time of day.
TABLE – MINIMUM FREQUENCY STANDARDS

Service Type

Time Frame

Local/Light Rail – Off Peak Above
25% Boardings/Hour

Weekday
6:00am – 9:00am
and 3:00pm – 6:00pm
Weekday
9:00am – 3:00pm

Local/Light Rail – Off Peak Below
25% Boardings/Hour

Weekday
9:00am – 3:00pm

Local
Rail & Enhanced Bus (BRT)

Rail & Enhanced Bus (BRT)

After 6:00pm and Weekends
Weekday 6:00am - 6:00pm
Weekday evenings 6:00pm - 11:00pm and
Saturday
Night after 11:00pm and Sunday

Regional to CBD

Weekday

Local/Light Rail– Peak Period

Rail & Enhanced Bus (BRT)

Minimum Frequency
30 Minutes
30 Minutes
60 Minutes
60 Minutes
15 Minutes
30 Minutes

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

RTD’s Minimum Service Frequency standard represents a compromise between economic efficiency and the
functionality of the system. For a route to be sustained at these frequencies, a route must meet the minimum
ridership performance standards. For Local and Limited routes, the standard is passengers per hour based upon
the bottom 10% and 25% of routes in the respective class. For Regional routes, the standard is passengers per
trip. Those specific ridership standards are listed in table below:

60 Minutes
3 peak trips
7:00am – 8:00am
and 4:00pm – 5:00pm

3

Packet Pg. 233

2.11.B.c

An examination of the schedules for the sampled routes is the most effective way to monitor adherence to this
standard.
TABLE – MINORITY ROUTE FREQUENCY

Above or
Below 25%
Above
Above
Above
Above
Above

AM
Peak
15
60
20
14
15

MidDay
15
60
20
14
15

PM
Peak
15
60
20
14
15

Evening
(after 6 pm)
15
60
20-96
31
29

Weekends
15-30
60
15-32
30-60

TABLE – NON-MINORITY ROUTE FREQUENCY

NonMinority
Routes
E Line
AA
0L
0
76

Above or
Below 25%

AM
Peak

MidDay

PM
Peak

Above
Below
Above
Above
Above

17
54
6
11
21

30
45
11
21

15
46
6-10
11
21

Evening
Weekends
(after 6 pm)
15
46
22
21

14-30
45-60
15-21
28-67

The analysis did not reveal deviations from the service standard or a disparity in the application of the service
standard.

On-Time Performance Standard and Monitoring Results
RTD strives to provide timely transit service district wide. RTD considers on-time to be an arrival at a location no
more than one minute early and no more than 5 minutes after the scheduled arrival time. Furthermore, RTD
expects trips on routes to be on-time at a certain percentage of the time depending on the service type. The
percentage of On-Time Performance for each mode is displayed below.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Minority
Routes
H Line
AT
16L
31
121

4

Packet Pg. 234

2.11.B.c

Service Type

Local

Regional

Rail

On-Time Performance
Standard

86%

92%

90%

RTD examined the sampled routes’ on-time performance in 2018. The percentage of on-time performance for
minority and non-minority routes are displayed below.
CHART – ON-TIME PERFORMANCE RATE

100%
80%
60%
79%

40%

81%

20%
0%

Non-Minority

Minority

The analysis of on-time performance for sampled minority and non-minority revealed insignificant disparities.

Vehicle Load Standard
The percentage of trips meeting the vehicle load standard on a route is a direct indicator of the appropriateness
of the level of frequency on route; as a route violating the vehicle load standard would be strong evidence for
a higher frequency of service. The Vehicle Load standard for each mode of service is summarized in the table
below. RTD requires that Vehicle Load standards be met 60% of the time.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

TABLE – ON-TIME PERFORMANCE STANDARD

5

Packet Pg. 235

2.11.B.c

TABLE - VEHICLE LOAD STANDARD

Local

Peak
Load Standard

125%
(Seated Load + 25%)

Off Peak
Load Standard

100%
(Seated Load)

Express

Regional

Sky Ride

100%
(Seated
Load)
100%
(Seated
Load)

100%
(Seated
Load)
100%
(Seated
Load)

100%
(Seated
Load)
100%
(Seated
Load)

Light Rail
125 Passengers
100%
(Seated Load)

Monitoring of the Vehicle Load standard involves an analysis of Crowding Reports that are based on Automatic
Passenger Counters (APC) data. Normally, the Crowding Reports are used to calculate the percentage of trips
meeting the vehicle load standard for individual routes. Due to the recent technical difficulties data integrity
issues, RTD is unable to examine vehicle load consistently or accurately. APC data issues should be resolved
later this year, allowing for this portion of the analysis to be completed.

Vehicle Assignment
Vehicles are assigned to specific routes and trips according to the following guidelines. These guidelines
may be modified if operational and scheduling needs require. Light Rail is exempted from this standard
as there is a singular standard vehicle available for Light Rail Service.
TABLE – VEHICLE ASSIGNMENT

Service Type
Vehicle Type

Lower
Volume
Local
Small Bus
27’ – 30’

Local

High Volume
Local/Limited

Regional

Standard Bus
40’

Articulated Bus
60’

Intercity Coach

To examine vehicle target adherence, August 2018 runboard vehicle assignments of the sample routes were
examined for percentage of correct vehicle assignment. Each of the examined routes generally required a
standard 40’ buses. Thus in general, the assignment of a small 27’-30’ bus is considered to be an incorrect
vehicle assignment. Below is a graph displaying the rate of correct and incorrect vehicle assignment.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Service Period

6

Packet Pg. 236

2.11.B.c

GRAPH – VEHICLE ASSIGNMENT RATE

80%
60%
40%

Non-Minority

20%

0%
Minority
Non-Minority

Minority
Incorrect
2%
3%

Correct
98%
97%
Minority

Non-Minority

The data revealed few instances of incorrect vehicle assignment and minimal difference in the rate of incorrect
assignment when minority and non-minority routes were compared.

Area Coverage Standard
RTD generally measures the distribution of fixed-routes Area Coverage (service availability) standard. The
purpose of these standards is to define a reasonable level of service to all areas of the District and to help RTD
maintain this service level. Since the RTD service area includes many different types of development, and
population densities and land use vary widely across the District, it would not be reasonable to expect all areas
to support the same level of service. Moreover, different types of service may best meet the needs of different
areas, and RTD's resources can be used in a more productive fashion if service can be tailored to the needs of
particular areas. Area coverage standards provide guidelines for tailoring service to the needs of communities
and help ensure that all areas receive a level of service that is commensurate with their needs.
Levels of service for specific areas also depend on the productivity of existing services. If existing or proposed
services cannot meet the productivity standards outlined in Chapter II of the RTD service standards, RTD may
choose not to provide the minimum level of service. Financial constraints may also limit RTD's ability to meet the
area coverage (or any other) standards.
The area coverage standards presented below, deal with minimum and maximum route spacing. Actual route
spacing and service frequency will depend on demand and productivity of existing service in the area.

Minimum Service Levels
Areas with 3-12 residents and employees per acre:


Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

100%

Peak period park-n-Ride service if either the travel time to the Denver CBD by Express bus, or a bus/rail
timed connection, exceeds 20 minutes.
7

Packet Pg. 237

2.11.B.c

Areas with 12 or more residents and employees per acre:



Local service on major arterials with pedestrian access within 1/4 mile.
Peak period, Limited, Express, or Regional service from park-n-Rides if either the travel time to the
Denver CBD by Express bus, or a bus/rail timed connection, exceeds 20 minutes.

Areas with 3-12 residents and employees per acre:



Local service along major arterials with pedestrian access within 1/4 mile.
Peak period, Limited, Express, or Regional service from park-n- Rides if travel time to the Denver CBD
by Express bus exceeds 20 minutes.

Areas with 12 or more residents and employees per acre:



Local service with ½ mile route spacing.
Limited, Express, or Regional service if travel time to the Denver CBD by Express bus exceeds 20 minutes.

To analyze the Area Coverage (service availability) standard, geographic areas were randomly selected from
areas that are disproportionately minority and comparable non-minority areas.

Area

Type

Percent
Minority

Population +
Population Employment
Employment
Density
Density
Density

West Denver

Dense Urban

83%

16.0

0.8

16.8

Highlands

Dense Urban

26%

12.6

3.4

16.0

Montbello + Peoria

Dense Suburb

86%

10.7

2.2

12.8

Downtown Littleton

Dense Suburb

29%

8.1

4.2

12.2

Brighton

Low Density
Suburb

46%

5.3

1.4

6.7

Parker

Low Density
Suburb

16%

4.8

0.8

5.6

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Maximum Target Service Levels

8

Packet Pg. 238

2.11.B.c

Routes
to CBD

PnR in
Area?

West Denver

35

3, W, 1,
9

No

N/A

Yes

Highlands

25

38, 32,
44

No

N/A

Yes

Montbello + Peoria

50

A

Yes

N/A

Yes

Downtown Littleton

45

D

Yes

N/A

Yes

Brighton

54

RX

Yes

Brighton
FR

No

Parker

50

P

Yes

Parker
FR

No

Area

Local
Service
FlexRide
on
Arterials

Examinations of the sampled areas revealed no disparities or violations of the area coverage standard.

Transit Amenities Policy
Transit amenities are defined as seating (benches, seats at stops/stations), bus and rail passenger shelters,
windscreens, platform canopies, signage (printed and digital displays), escalators, elevators and waste
receptacles.
Distribution of transit amenities occur in accordance with the design criteria established for each type of transit
facility. Transit Facilities include: Park and Rides, Bus Rapid Transit Stations, Passenger Transfer Stations, StreetSide Bus Stops, Light Rail Stations and Commuter Rail stations.
The three sets of Design Criteria governing the distribution of transit amenities are included as an appendix
and are listed below:
1. Bus Infrastructure Design Guidelines and Criteria
2. Light Rail Design Criteria
3. Commuter Rail Design Criteria
To monitor the distribution of these criteria, RTD examined the transit amenities map shown below. No new
disparities were identified.

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

Travel
Time to
CBD
(minutes)

9

Packet Pg. 239

Attachment: 2019 Title VI Program Update - Transit Monitoring (3816 : 2019 Title VI Program Update)

2.11.B.c

10

Packet Pg. 240

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 1, 2019

Subject:

Approval of the Denver
Contract for LiVE Program

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 1, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

Human

Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to execute a
contract to validate income and provide customer service to help manage LiVE Program eligibility
applications through the State PEAK software system for an amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The
contract is for five (5) years of application processing and customer service.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
RTD commits to reviewing its Fare Structure and Fare Programs every three years to determine if any
additions or changes are required to provide the best options for RTD ridership and meet RTD’s revenue
targets. As part of this process, the RTD Board of Directors approved a new Low-Income Fare Program
(now branded LiVE Program) in mid-September 2018.
RTD is working with the Colorado Governor’s Office of Information Technology (OIT) to implement a
program for evaluating RTD riders’ eligibility for the LiVE program using the State’s public benefits
application system, PEAK.
For applicants who are not categorically income-eligible for the LiVE card through current enrollment in a
qualifying public assistance program, their application will be subject to income validation. Denver
Human Services (DHS) has agreed to assist RTD with this income validation process.
DISCUSSION
RTD needs to execute a contract with DHS to implement income validation and customer service for the
LiVE Program. The contract includes the following items:
 DHS shall conduct the LiVE income validation process for applicants who are not categorically
income-eligible through certain public assistance programs
 DHS shall provide customer service through their call center to applicants for the LiVE program
 DHS shall provide data confidentiality, privacy and security management
 DHS shall participate in audits requested by RTD, not more than annually
 DHS shall provide reporting on the applications processed
The services shall be performed by DHS for a fee. Members of DHS have generously donated their time
to provide guidance to support implementation of RTD’s LiVE Program.

Packet Pg. 241

2.12.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $2,000,000. Funding for this project is included in the 2019
Budget. These funds will support up to 4-6 FTE for up to 5 years.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
execute a contract to validate income and provide customer service to help manage LiVE Program
eligibility applications through the State PEAK software system for an amount not to exceed
$2,000,000. The contract is for five (5) years of application processing and customer service.
2. RTD can independently, or through a contractor, develop capacity and procedures to evaluate
income of applicants and provide customer support for LiVE program applicants. RTD does not
have the resources to provide such services. Development of such capacity would take more than
a year to implement.. Building such a department at RTD would be significantly more expensive
because RTD does not have the advantages of existing expertise, procedures and structures,
economies of scale, and capacity to cover fluctuations in application volume. This would put
implementation of the LiVE Program at significant risk.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Sr, Manager of Revenue
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 242

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 1, 2019

Subject:

Contract Award for the Transportation
Transformation Comprehensive Plan

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 1, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg Holt &
Ullevig to serve as the contractor for assistance in the preparation of the Transportation Transformation
(T2) Comprehensive (Comp) Plan for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the T2 Comp Plan.
This action addresses four of the General Manager’s goals for 2019:





Task Goal #4 – Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #3 - Strong Financial Management

BACKGROUND
Preparation of a systems optimization plan/comprehensive operations analysis is one important element
of the Board adopted 2019 Task Goal #4 (Address Future Transportation Needs and Methods.) The
Board-directed effort will be an integral component of RTD’s Transportation Transformation initiative, as
the District evolves as both a mobility integrator and public transit provider. The Transportation
Transformation Comprehensive Plan (T2 Comp Plan) is anticipated to provide guidance on future RTD
services, to complement FasTracks, and to chart a course that optimizes existing and future FasTracks
infrastructure and determines what other future investments are needed. The plan is intended to provide
a vision for RTD’s existing rail system, focus on ancillary services such as multi-modal first/last mile
connections, maximize FasTracks investments, address staffing-related challenges, evaluate long-term
parking needs, determine the location and nature of future bus and rail maintenance facilities, consider
fleet electrification, and review RTD’s boundaries. The effort also will include a re-examination of RTD’s
financial planning processes to determine how RTD can enhance them to meet the changing service and
infrastructure needs of the District in a fiscally sustainable manner.
In February 2019, the Board approved a transfer to appropriate all the programmed funds in 2019 for a
total budget of $4,317,000, which includes the $1,420,000 for the T2 Comp Plan that RTD received
through a federal grant competitively awarded by DRCOG. The grant funds will be available to RTD in
October 2019.
DISCUSSION
RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) in March 2019 for consultant services to assist with the
preparation of the T2 Comp Plan. The RFP included an 18 percent Disadvantaged Business Enterprise
(DBE) goal. A committee comprised of representatives from RTD and DRCOG staffs reviewed proposals
submitted by consultant teams in a qualifications-based selection process. The evaluation considered
each team’s technical proposal in the following areas:

Packet Pg. 243

2.12.D








Fiscal/Financial Stability Plan;
Engagement/Communications/Outreach;
Comprehensive Assessment of RTD Services-System Optimization Plan;
Mobility Plan for the Future;
Qualifications of the Firm (Similar Projects); and
Qualifications of the Project Manager with Similar Projects.

Cost and Person Hours were also evaluated, following the completion of technical scoring.
RTD received two submittals in response to the RFP: Felsburg Holt & Ullevig and HDR Engineering.
The committee found that the Felsburg Holt & Ullevig team had the most thorough understanding of the
work, including innovative approaches to the overall work effort and an extensive understanding of key
District opportunities and challenges. Notable aspects of the Felsburg Holt & Ullevig approach include
the following:








Recognition of the Board’s role in defining key policy guidance to lead the plan, as well as the
Board’s direct engagement and involvement during Plan preparation;
Commitment to the District’s schedule, which calls for submittal of the System Optimization Plan
component approximately 12 months after notice to proceed;
A holistic approach to weaving together the distinct, yet interconnected Plan components;
Strong local project management supplemented by recognized national experts;
A non-proprietary financial planning approach that builds upon existing District models and
practices;
Exceeding the 18 percent DBE goal with 22 percent DBE participation; and
Creative and extensive strategies to incorporate Board, customer, stakeholder, and staff input to
inform and guide the Plan.

Staff is requesting that the Board approve this recommendation and authorize the General Manager to
negotiate a contract not to exceed $3,999,511. Upon successful negotiations, the Plan effort will begin
immediately and is expected to be complete within 24 months from notice-to-proceed. The System
Optimization Plan component, which would include potential recommendations for bus and rail changes,
would be completed within approximately 12 months. As noted above, the RFP established an 18
percent DBE goal, and Felsburg Holt & Ullevig has committed to exceeding this with a DBE commitment
of 22 percent.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract is included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the T2 Comp Plan.
ALTERNATIVES
 Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a
professional services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the T2 Comp Plan for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the T2 Comp Plan.


Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve a
professional services contract award to Felsburg Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for
assistance in the preparation of the T2 Comp Plan for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511. This
action is not recommended since it will delay the procurement of consultant services for the T2
Comp Plan, and will jeopardize the $1.42 million in DRCOG TIP grant funding for the project.

Packet Pg. 244

2.12.D

Prepared by:
William Van Meter, Assistant General Manager, Planning
Brian Welch, Senior Manager, Planning Technical Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 245

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 2, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Director, District H

GM

Date:

May 2, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Revised Governance Manual

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised RTD Board of Directors Governance Manual (Governance Manual), as
presented to the Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee.
The Chair further recommends that, should additional changes be made going forward to any of the
documents contained as appendices to the Governance Manual, which changes would necessitate nonsubstantive administrative or ministerial changes to the Manual itself, Board Office staff be permitted to
incorporate those corresponding changes to the Governance Manual without the need for further Board
approval.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical
Leadership.
BACKGROUND
The Governance Manual is a Board-approved document that was created in response to a
recommendation contained in a 2010 state performance audit. The audit recommendation was to
develop such a document in order “to facilitate the organized, efficient, and cohesive functioning of the
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities”. The audit further recommended that the Board review and update
its Governance Manual annually. The Governance Manual itself was last reviewed and approved by the
Board in August 2012, though several changes to the manual’s appendices were approved by the Board
in early 2019.
DISCUSSION
The proposed revisions to the Governance Manual are an effort to:
 Employ a uniform system of punctuation, capitalization, and wording;
 Eliminate obsolete, inaccurate, or redundant references;
 Correct obvious errors and inconsistencies;
 Clarify existing policy and modernize terminology.
In adopting this recommended action, the Board acknowledges its intent that subsequent changes to the
any of the Governance Manual’s appendices need not necessitate a corresponding Board-driven
recommended action to change the Governance Manual itself, so long as the changes to the Governance
Manual are merely administrative or ministerial in nature.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the adoption of the revised Governance Manual.

Packet Pg. 246

2.12.E

ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the proposed revisions to the Governance Manual.
2. To reject by way of amendment some of the proposed revisions.
3. To reject all revisions. This is not the preferred alternative.

ATTACHMENTS:


2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED



2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 247

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 1 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 248

1.0 Introduction and Overview

This manual documents the RTD Board of Directors’ role of governance as the policy-makers policymaker for the RTD District. The Colorado Legislative General Assembly created the RTD district in 1969
as anby legislative act. Pursuant to Ssection 32-9-109.5 of the RTD Act, a full copy of which is contained
in this manual, declared effective January 1, 1993, the governing body of the district shall be a bBoard of
Ddirectors consisting of fifteen persons, each of whom is an eligible elector residing within the director
district. Members of the Board of Ddirectors are elected to represent the people in the district based on
population size as determined by the US Census. Following the federal census, the bBoard of dDirectors
shall apportion the composition of the boardBoard into compact and contiguous director districts so
that, to the extent practical, each district size will represent equal population.
The RTD Board is subject to several major laws and policies that defines define and affects affect its
power and authority to act:
1) The Regional Transportation District Act (RTD Act)—provides the statutory enabling legislation by
with which the RTD Board of Directors and the agency must comply. Key components of this act
include:








RTD is authorized to operate a mass transit system (C.R.S. 32-9-102)
RTD can act through eight8 votes of its Board of Directors (C.R.S.32-9-116 (3))
RTD is a political subdivision of the state (C.R.S. 32-9-119). It is created by the legislature and
changes in the RTD Act require a vote of the legislature
RTD has the power of a corporation—contracting, buying and selling property, and hiring of
employees
RTD collects a 1% sales and use tax (C.R.S. 32-9-119 (2))
RTD tax is administered by the Department of Revenue
RTD may privatize up to 58%of its non-rail service (C.R.S. 32-9-119.5)

2) The RTD Board of Directors Bylaws—the authority to adopt Bylaws is expressly conferred by Section
114, Paragraph 1 (b) of the RTD Act. Some rules governing the internal affairs of the Board of Directors
are contained in the Act, while others, by delegation, are established by the Board. The RTD Bylaws
combines combine those rules contained in the Act with those adopted by the Board, Resolution 3 of
Series 2019. Should any conflict or contradictory language exist, the RTD Act prevails.
3) Colorado Public Official Disclosure Law—as elected officials, RTD board of directors Directors must
provide a disclosure to the Secretary of State within 30 days after election or re-election. Such
information includes business and real estate interests, statement of gifts and honoraria and names and
sources of income.
4) Colorado Open Meetings and Open Records Act (C.R.S. 24-6-401 & 24-72-201)—some of the
provisions related to these laws include:

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 2 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 249


















RTD is a local body (C.R.S. 24-6-402 (1) (a))
Meetings of a quorum or three or more members of a local public body are open meetings.
If two or more members form a quorum and are present, the committee meeting is an open
meeting
Public meetings must be noticed to the public at least 24 hours in advance
Notices should include a specific agenda
Minutes must be taken, recorded and made available to the public.
E-mail discussions (chat room) are subject to Open Meetings requirements
Executive sessions can be held at meetings, on notice of the specific purpose with vote of 2/3 of
the quorum present but not less than eight8 votes for:
o property acquisition, lease or disposal
o conferences with an attorney regarding specific legal questions
o matters required to be kept confidential under state or federal law
o security arrangements and/or investigations including ongoing or possible
persecutionsprosecutions
o contract negotiations/strategy discussions
o personnel matters
o consideration of documents protected by mandatory non-disclosure under law
No formal action is permitted in executive session.
Colorado Open Records Law provide provides public records are open for inspection as
authorized by C.R.S 24-72-201.
Public records include correspondence of elected officials except work product
Public records may be requested; as of 7/1/2014 RTD charges $30 per hour for any request
requiring more than one hour as authorized by CRS 24-72-205(6)(b)).
RTD will provide free of charge an electronic copy;, if file sizes are too large you may be required
to pay the specified amount for a CD or DVD or thumb drives. CD’s are $5 and DVD’s are $15
and Bblack and white photocopies are .25 cents per standard page.
Public records should be provided in 3 days unless deadline cannot be met and extenuating
circumstances identified-then 7 days may be allowed.

5) Standards of Conduct—RTD Board membersDirectors as elected officials are subject to standards of
conduct as defined under section C.R.S. 24-18-103 and the RTD Code of Ethics as adopted by the Board
of Directors in 201803.
1.1 Mission Statement

To meet our constituents' present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible and cost-effective service throughout the District.
1.2 Board Operating Principles

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 3 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 250













The Board is a policy-making governance Board and sets the strategic direction for the agency.
Through the responsibilities and authority delegated by the Board of Directors, the General
Manager and the Senior Leadership Team implements implement and manages manage the
agency in accordance with the direction that has been set by the Board.
All action via resolution and board Board orders that are voted on by the Board in a full Board
meeting becomes become the official record of the District.
The Board has committed to transparency in its overall governance of the District.
The Board is an elected Board that represents the interest of its constituency while focusing on
its collective mission to offer safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective
service throughout the District.
Resolution number 15 of series 201908 provides the RTD Board Operating Guidelines to govern
its communications with each other and staff and to create more effective communication and
decision-making.
The Board will participate in an annual Board Advance Planning session with staff to perform
goal setting and establish other strategic priorities for the District.
The Governance Manual is a working document that will be reviewed annuallyperiodically for
appropriate and necessary changes in accordance with the RTD Act, Bylaws, and Board policies
and procedures.

1.3 Organization and Composition of RTD Board
Elected Official Board
The RTD Board of Directors is an elected Board with each district representing a constituency base of
approximately 180,000 based on the 2010 census. The In the second year following each census, a
redistricting process occurs to apportion the composition of the Board into compact and contiguous
Director districts so that the fifteen directors will represent to the extent practical the people of the
district on the basis of population. If the apportionment is not complete before March 15 of the second
year following the census, the lLegislative cCouncil created in C.R.S. 2-3-301, with the assistance of the
Director of Research of the Legislative Council and the Director of the Office of Legislative Legal Services
created in C.R.S. 2-3-501, shall apportion the composition of the Board district.
Board Member Composition
The Board is comprised of 15 non-partisan, publicly elected Board members representing the 15 districts
of the RTD district. While it is desirable that Board members are diverse, knowledgeable and supportive
of public transit, anyone can run for office as long as he/she is a qualified elector of the Director District
from which he/she intends to run; is at least 18 years of age and a citizen of the United States, and a
resident of the Director District in which he/she is running for at least 32 days prior to filing a petition to
run with the Secretary of State. Board members are elected in the general election and any candidate
who qualifies through the petition process will be on the general election ballot.
Board Term

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 4 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 251

Board members are elected for a term of four years and can serve for a maximum of 2two terms. Terms
are generally staggered so that not all Board members are up for election/re-election at the same time.
If a Board member terminates before his term is over, section 32-9-112 of the RTD Act defines the
process for filling or appointing someone else to complete the term of that Board member. Board
members who have been appointed to fill a vacancy will serve until the next regular election, at which
time the vacancy shall be filled by election for any remaining unexpired portion of the term.
1.4 Structure and Practice of RTD Board
Difference between Governance and Management Board
The question of whether the RTD Board is a governance Bboard or a management Bboard often comes
up in the discussion of duties and functions of the RTD Board. While it is clear that, as part of the
legislative enabling act, the RTD Board was created as a policy- making Bboard (i.e. governance) to
represent the public interest, boundaries for the execution of the functions and powers afforded to the
Board in the RTD Act are complex and affect management as well. Generally, the creation of policy and
establishing strategic direction is a Board function whereas the implementation of policy is a staff
responsibility. However, areas where the Board may cross into management include financial approval
of contracts, fare structure, CEO/General Manager oversight and management. As an elected Board,
often times political implications of a decision must be considered as well. The distinction between
policy and management is often distorted when boardBoard governance is characterized by a merging
of management, political and policy-making functions. Board members must avoid the proclivity of
getting too detailed in day to day operations and try to stay focused at the policy making level.
Committee Structure and Focus
Newly elected Directors or re-elected Directors are sworn into office at the first regular or special
boardBoard meeting of the year. Each member of the boardBoard, before assuming the responsibilities
of his or her office, shall take and subscribe an oath of office administered by such person or persons
designated by the Board. Following the swearing in of new Board members, the full Board will vote on
officers for the year who comprise the Executive Committee. Officers are: Chair of the Board, ViceChair or Chair Pro Tem, 2nd Vice-Chair, Secretary and Treasurer. The Chair then appoints the Cchair and
Vvice-Cchair of the standing and ad hoc committees.
The Board Bylaws currently provide the description of these standing committees for 201912:




Executive Committee
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee



Planning and Development Committee





Finance and Administration and Audit Committee
Operations/Customer Service Committee
Communications and Government Relations Committee

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0.27", No bullets or
numbering

Page 5 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 252



Small Business Enterprise/Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (SBE/DBE)

With the exception of the Executive Committee and the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee, all standing committees are committees of the whole with a quorum of five
members. The Committee of the whole structure was approved by the Board in an attempt to provide a
time and opportunity for the full Board members to participate in committee discussions, acquire
knowledge at the same time, and to have a voice to represent their particular constituency base. This
has had the net effect of moving the voting items for unanimous consent and recommended action on
the Board agenda more expeditiously and effectively. Committee Charters are prepared and Board
approved for each of the standing committees.
Ad Hoc Committee
Ad hoc committees are committees that can be assigned by the Chair based upon a particular need or
issue. All such special or ad hoc committees shall be evaluated annually by the current Chair of the
Board for update, change of committee members, or dissolution, as appropriate. These committees are
generally short term and expire upon the termination of the Chair of the Board.
For information on committee charters, please refer to Part V, Committee Charter section of this
manual.

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 6 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0.27", No bullets or
numbering

Packet Pg. 253

1.5 Responsibilities of Board of Directors
Sections 32-9-109.5, 32-9-114 and 32-9-119 of the RTD Act define the power and
authority of the RTD Board of Directors. Without prejudice to the general powers conferred
by law and by Article II of these bylaws, it is hereby expressly declared that the Directors
shall have the following powers and duties:
a)
From time to time to make and change rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with law or these bylaws, for the management of the business
and affairs of the District and the conduct of Board, Committee, and Task
Force meetings.
b)
To determine and designate, except as otherwise provided by law or these
bylaws, who shall be authorized to make purchases, negotiate leases and
contracts, sign receipts, endorsements, checks, releases, and other
documents.
c)
To create standing or special committees and delegate such power and
authority thereto as the Board deems necessary and proper to the
performance of its functions and obligations.
d)
To create advisory committees made up of both Directors and non-members
of the Board of Directors, and specifically to create an advisory committee
made up of former Directors who shall meet not less than once a year.
e)
To prepare a certified annual financial report covering each year’s activities.
Said report shall be submitted to the Board and made available to the public
on or before July 31 of the ensuing year.

In addition to these broad powers, the Board of Directors performs a number of primary responsibilities
for the RTD District:
1. Governance—creating and approving policies related to RTD agency business
2. System Innovation and Strategic Guidance—setting vision, mission and strategic direction for
agency
3. Oversight of system performance and legal and fiduciary responsibilities
4. Customer and Constituent representation for all in the Transit District
5. Selecting, sSupervising and Evaluatingevaluating the performance of the General Manager.
Please refer to the Board of Directors’ documentation on the process for hiring or transitioning
to a new General Manager.

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 7 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Formatted: Font: (Default) +Body (Calibri)
Formatted: Font: (Default) +Body (Calibri)
Formatted: Font: (Default) +Body (Calibri)

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 254

1.6 Board Orientation and Development

New Member Orientation
Election for Board members is staggered over two years with seven Board members elected in one
period and eight Board members elected during the next period. Following the election in November, a
series of orientation sessions are facilitated with new Board members that centers in these main areas:













Review of the Board Governance Manual (formerly Board Resource Manual) which provides
information on:
o Board policies and procedures (RTD Act, Bylaws, Legislative Acts, Major Laws affecting
RTD)
o State Ccode of Eethics (Amendment 41-now article 29 of the state constitution, Board
Ooperating Guidelines, RTD Code of Ethics/Board ethics, and attendance at political
party functions)
o Ccommittee structures (Board meetings and study session calendars, standing
committees, and ad hoc committees and chairs, and outside committees
o Committee Charters
o Local and travel policies (includes management directives for General Manager)
o Board office functions (highlights of being a Board member and roles & responsibilities
of support staff)
o General Manager Oversight (i.e. compensation philosophy, Hiring and Search process,
Process for Handling of General Manager expenses, Process for Goal Setting and
Performance Evaluation and Succession Planning)
o RTD Directory information (Internal phone list, organization chart, phone book.
performance measures, RTD District maps and RTD fact Sheetssheets)
Legal Briefing on items of concern including parliamentarian parliamentary procedures
Meeting with Ssenior Lleadership team to understand organizational structure, top challenges
and opportunities and focus for the year
Meeting with Chief Financial Officer (CFO) to understand financial and annual budget
Briefing on top agency projects
Tour of FasTracks corridors, Denver Union Station, Divisions of the agency, Ssecurity command
centers, Commuter Rail mMaintenance fFacility and other points of interest
Setup of biographies, s governance materials and Board member information on website
Access and use of the Board of Directors meeting portal featuring, audio, video and closed
captioning for public transparency.
One-on-one briefings on key projects and service planning
Board members member benefits
Review of upcoming APTA and relevant transportation conferences

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 8 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 255

Board Member Development
Educating and bringing Board members up to speed on items of consideration that they need to
perform effectively in their role is one of the responsibilities of the General Manager and his staff. In
addition to committee meetings, boardBoard documents and one-on ones with respective Board
members, Board members are highly encouraged to read the material and familiarize themselves with
the current program status. Study sessions are held periodicallymonthly to introduce new items and
provide information to the Board members.
Board members are also encouraged to become active in the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA), which is the premier association of over 1500-member organizations-bus,
paratransit, rail systems-providing public transportation options. One of the central functions that APTA
offers are is a number of workshops, seminars, conferences and resources throughout the year that
contributes contribute to public transportation knowledge, development and growth. APTA also serves
as a national advocate for public transportation. Board Members are provided two free registrations
annually to any of these conferences identified and are encouraged to participate.
An Annual Board Advance Retreat held during the first quarter of the year is a powerful development
tool for the Board to use with the senior leadership team to set vision, develop strategy and goals that
are integrated into the annual operations/ budget planning cycle.

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 9 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 256

Appendices

Governing Policies and Procedures




RTD Act, Article 9 of Title 32, C.R.S.
Board Bylaws
Major Laws Affecting RTD Board

Code of Ethics




RTD Code of Ethics/Board Ethics
State Code of Ethics, Part 1 of Article 18 of Title 24, C.R.S.
Board Operating Guidelines

Committee Structure




Board Meetings/Study Session Schedule
RTD Board Committees
Committee Descriptions

Committee Charters








Executive Committee
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Civil Rights Committee
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Operations & Customer Service Committee

Board of Directors Local & Travel Policies



Frequently Asked Questions on Board Expenses
Highlights of Being a Board Member

General Manager Oversight

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 10 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 257








General Manager Compensation Philosophy
General Manager Hiring and Search Process
Procedures for Approving General Manager Business Expenses
Policy for General Manager Goal Setting
Policy on Evaluation Process for General Manager
Annual Performance Review

Updated 8/21/125/14/2019

Page 11 of 11

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - REDLINED [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.a

Packet Pg. 258

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.b

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 1 of 10

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 259

2.12.E.b

This manual documents the RTD Board of Directors’ role of governance as the policy-maker for the RTD
District. The Colorado General Assembly created the RTD district in 1969 by legislative act. Pursuant to
section 32-9-109.5 of the RTD Act, a full copy of which is contained in this manual, effective January 1,
1993, the governing body of the district shall be a Board of Directors consisting of fifteen persons, each
of whom is an eligible elector residing within the director district. Members of the Board of Directors are
elected to represent the people in the district based on population size as determined by the US Census.
Following the federal census, the Board of Directors shall apportion the composition of the Board into
compact and contiguous director districts so that, to the extent practical, each district size will represent
equal population.
The RTD Board is subject to several major laws and policies that define and affect its power and
authority to act:
1) The Regional Transportation District Act (RTD Act)—provides the statutory enabling legislation with
which the RTD Board of Directors and the agency must comply. Key components of this act include:








RTD is authorized to operate a mass transit system (C.R.S. 32-9-102)
RTD can act through eight votes of its Board of Directors (C.R.S.32-9-116 (3))
RTD is a political subdivision of the state (C.R.S. 32-9-119). It is created by the legislature and
changes in the RTD Act require a vote of the legislature
RTD has the power of a corporation—contracting, buying and selling property, and hiring of
employees
RTD collects a 1% sales and use tax (C.R.S. 32-9-119 (2))
RTD tax is administered by the Department of Revenue
RTD may privatize up to 58%of its non-rail service (C.R.S. 32-9-119.5)

2) The RTD Board of Directors Bylaws—the authority to adopt Bylaws is expressly conferred by Section
114, Paragraph 1 (b) of the RTD Act. Some rules governing the internal affairs of the Board of Directors
are contained in the Act, while others, by delegation, are established by the Board. The RTD Bylaws
combine those rules contained in the Act with those adopted by the Board, Resolution 3 of Series 2019
Should any conflict or contradictory language exist, the RTD Act prevails.
3) Colorado Public Official Disclosure Law—as elected officials, RTD Directors must provide a disclosure
to the Secretary of State within 30 days after election or re-election. Such information includes business
and real estate interests, statement of gifts and honoraria and names and sources of income.
4) Colorado Open Meetings and Open Records Act (C.R.S. 24-6-401 & 24-72-201)—some of the
provisions related to these laws include:



Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

1.0 Introduction and Overview

RTD is a local body (C.R.S. 24-6-402 (1) (a))
Meetings of a quorum or three or more members of a local public body are open meetings.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 2 of 10

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 260
















If two or more members form a quorum and are present, the committee meeting is an open
meeting
Public meetings must be noticed to the public at least 24 hours in advance
Notices should include a specific agenda
Minutes must be taken, recorded and made available to the public.
E-mail discussions (chat room) are subject to Open Meetings requirements
Executive sessions can be held at meetings, on notice of the specific purpose with vote of 2/3 of
the quorum present but not less than eight votes for:
o property acquisition, lease or disposal
o conferences with an attorney regarding specific legal questions
o matters required to be kept confidential under state or federal law
o security arrangements and/or investigations including ongoing or possible prosecutions
o contract negotiations/strategy discussions
o personnel matters
o consideration of documents protected by mandatory non-disclosure under law
No formal action is permitted in executive session.
Colorado Open Records Law provides public records are open for inspection as authorized by
C.R.S 24-72-201.
Public records include correspondence of elected officials except work product
Public records may be requested; as of 7/1/2014 RTD charges $30 per hour for any request
requiring more than one hour as authorized by CRS 24-72-205(6)(b)).
RTD will provide free of charge an electronic copy; if file sizes are too large you may be required
to pay the specified amount for a CD or DVD or thumb drives. Black and white photocopies are
.25 cents per standard page.
Public records should be provided in 3 days unless deadline cannot be met and extenuating
circumstances identified-then 7 days may be allowed.

5) Standards of Conduct—RTD Directors as elected officials are subject to standards of conduct as
defined under section C.R.S. 24-18-103 and the RTD Code of Ethics as adopted by the Board of Directors
in 2018.
1.1 Mission Statement

To meet our constituents' present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible and cost-effective service throughout the District.
1.2 Board Operating Principles


The Board is a policy-making governance Board and sets the strategic direction for the agency.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 3 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.b

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 261












Through the responsibilities and authority delegated by the Board of Directors, the General
Manager and the Senior Leadership Team implement and manage the agency in accordance
with the direction that has been set by the Board.
All action via resolution and Board orders that are voted on by the Board in a full Board meeting
become the official record of the District.
The Board has committed to transparency in its overall governance of the District.
The Board is an elected Board that represents the interest of its constituency while focusing on
its collective mission to offer safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective
service throughout the District.
Resolution number 1 of series 2019 provides the RTD Board Operating Guidelines to govern its
communications with each other and staff and to create more effective communication and
decision-making.
The Board will participate in an annual Board Advance Planning session with staff to perform
goal setting and establish other strategic priorities for the District.
The Governance Manual is a working document that will be reviewed annually for appropriate
and necessary changes in accordance with the RTD Act, Bylaws, and Board policies and
procedures.

1.3 Organization and Composition of RTD Board
Elected Official Board
The RTD Board of Directors is an elected Board with each district representing a constituency base of
approximately 180,000 based on the 2010 census. In the second year following each census, a
redistricting process occurs to apportion the composition of the Board into compact and contiguous
Director districts so that the fifteen directors will represent to the extent practical the people of the
district on the basis of population. If the apportionment is not complete before March 15 of the second
year following the census, the Legislative Council created in C.R.S. 2-3-301, with the assistance of the
Director of Research of the Legislative Council and the Director of the Office of Legislative Legal Services
created in C.R.S. 2-3-501, shall apportion the composition of the Board district.
Board Member Composition
The Board is comprised of 15 non-partisan, publicly elected Board members representing the 15 districts
of the RTD district. While it is desirable that Board members are diverse, knowledgeable and supportive
of public transit, anyone can run for office as long as he/she is a qualified elector of the Director District
from which he/she intends to run; is at least 18 years of age and a citizen of the United States, and a
resident of the Director District in which he/she is running for at least 32 days prior to filing a petition to
run with the Secretary of State. Board members are elected in the general election and any candidate
who qualifies through the petition process will be on the general election ballot.
Board Term

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.b

Board members are elected for a term of four years and can serve for a maximum of two terms. Terms
are generally staggered so that not all Board members are up for election/re-election at the same time.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 4 of 10

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 262

If a Board member terminates before his term is over, section 32-9-112 of the RTD Act defines the
process for filling or appointing someone else to complete the term of that Board member. Board
members who have been appointed to fill a vacancy will serve until the next regular election, at which
time the vacancy shall be filled by election for any remaining unexpired portion of the term.
1.4 Structure and Practice of RTD Board
Difference between Governance and Management Board
The question of whether the RTD Board is a governance board or a management board often comes up
in the discussion of duties and functions of the RTD Board. While it is clear that, as part of the
legislative enabling act, the RTD Board was created as a policy-making board (i.e. governance) to
represent the public interest, boundaries for the execution of the functions and powers afforded to the
Board in the RTD Act are complex and affect management as well. Generally, the creation of policy and
establishing strategic direction is a Board function whereas the implementation of policy is a staff
responsibility. However, areas where the Board may cross into management include financial approval
of contracts, fare structure, CEO/General Manager oversight and management. As an elected Board,
often times political implications of a decision must be considered as well. The distinction between
policy and management is often distorted when Board governance is characterized by a merging of
management, political and policy-making functions. Board members must avoid the proclivity of getting
too detailed in day to day operations and try to stay focused at the policy making level.
Committee Structure and Focus
Newly elected Directors or re-elected Directors are sworn into office at the first regular or special Board
meeting of the year. Each member of the Board, before assuming the responsibilities of his or her office,
shall take and subscribe an oath of office administered by such person or persons designated by the
Board. Following the swearing in of new Board members, the full Board will vote on officers for the
year who comprise the Executive Committee. Officers are: Chair of the Board, Vice-Chair or Chair Pro
Tem, 2nd Vice-Chair, Secretary and Treasurer. The Chair then appoints the Chair and Vice-Chair of the
standing and ad hoc committees.
The Board Bylaws currently provide the description of these standing committees for 2019:







Executive Committee
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Planning/Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee
Finance and Administration and Audit Committee
Operations/Customer Service Committee
Communications and Government Relations Committee

With the exception of the Executive Committee and the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee, all standing committees are committees of the whole with a quorum of five
members. The Committee of the whole structure was approved by the Board in an attempt to provide a
Updated 5/14/2019

Page 5 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.b

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 263

time and opportunity for the full Board members to participate in committee discussions, acquire
knowledge at the same time, and to have a voice to represent their particular constituency base. This
has had the net effect of moving the voting items for unanimous consent and recommended action on
the Board agenda more expeditiously and effectively. Committee Charters are prepared and Board
approved for each of the standing committees.
Ad Hoc Committee
Ad hoc committees are committees that can be assigned by the Chair based upon a particular need or
issue. All such special or ad hoc committees shall be evaluated annually by the current Chair of the
Board for update, change of committee members, or dissolution, as appropriate. .
For information on committee charters, please refer to Part V, Committee Charter section of this
manual.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 6 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

2.12.E.b

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 264

2.12.E.b

Sections 32-9-109.5, 32-9-114 and 32-9-119 of the RTD Act define the power and
authority of the RTD Board of Directors. Without prejudice to the general powers conferred
by law and by Article II of these bylaws, it is hereby expressly declared that the Directors
shall have the following powers and duties:
a)
From time to time to make and change rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with law or these bylaws, for the management of the business
and affairs of the District and the conduct of Board, Committee, and Task
Force meetings.
b)
To determine and designate, except as otherwise provided by law or these
bylaws, who shall be authorized to make purchases, negotiate leases and
contracts, sign receipts, endorsements, checks, releases, and other
documents.
c)
To create standing or special committees and delegate such power and
authority thereto as the Board deems necessary and proper to the
performance of its functions and obligations.
d)
To create advisory committees made up of both Directors and non-members
of the Board of Directors, and specifically to create an advisory committee
made up of former Directors who shall meet not less than once a year.
e)
To prepare a certified annual financial report covering each year’s activities.
Said report shall be submitted to the Board and made available to the public
on or before July 31 of the ensuing year.

In addition to these broad powers, the Board of Directors performs a number of primary responsibilities
for the RTD District:
1. Governance—creating and approving policies related to RTD agency business
2. System Innovation and Strategic Guidance—setting vision, mission and strategic direction for
agency
3. Oversight of system performance and legal and fiduciary responsibilities
4. Customer and Constituent representation for all in the Transit District
5. Selecting, supervising and evaluating the performance of the General Manager. Please refer to
the Board of Directors’ documentation on the process for hiring or transitioning to a new
General Manager.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 7 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

1.5 Responsibilities of Board of Directors

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 265

2.12.E.b

New Member Orientation
Election for Board members is staggered over two years with seven Board members elected in one
period and eight Board members elected during the next period. Following the election in November, a
series of orientation sessions are facilitated with new Board members that centers in these main areas:













Review of the Board Governance Manual (formerly Board Resource Manual) which provides
information on:
o Board policies and procedures (RTD Act, Bylaws, Legislative Acts, Major Laws affecting
RTD)
o State Code of Ethics (, Board Operating Guidelines, RTD Code of Ethics, and attendance
at political party functions)
o Committee structures (Board meetings and study session calendars, standing
committees, and ad hoc committees and chairs, and outside committees
o Committee Charters
o Local and travel policies (includes management directives for General Manager)
o Board office functions (highlights of being a Board member and roles & responsibilities
of support staff)
o General Manager Oversight (i.e. compensation philosophy, Hiring and Search process,
Process for Handling of General Manager expenses, Process for Goal Setting and
Performance Evaluation and Succession Planning)
o RTD Directory information (Internal phone list, organization chart, phone book.
performance measures, RTD District maps and RTD fact sheets)
Legal Briefing on items of concern including parliamentary procedures
Meeting with Senior Leadership to understand organizational structure, top challenges and
opportunities and focus for the year
Meeting with Chief Financial Officer (CFO) to understand financial and annual budget
Briefing on top agency projects
Tour of FasTracks corridors, Denver Union Station, Divisions of the agency, Security command
centers, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and other points of interest
Setup of biographies, governance materials and Board member information on website
Access and use of the Board of Directors meeting portal featuring, audio, video and closed
captioning for public transparency.
One-on-one briefings on key projects and service planning
Board member benefits
Review of upcoming APTA and relevant transportation conferences

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 8 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

1.6 Board Orientation and Development

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 266

2.12.E.b

Educating and bringing Board members up to speed on items of consideration that they need to
perform effectively in their role is one of the responsibilities of the General Manager and his staff. In
addition to committee meetings, Board documents and one-on ones with respective Board members,
Board members are highly encouraged to read the material and familiarize themselves with the current
program status. Study sessions are held periodically to introduce new items and provide information to
the Board members.
Board members are also encouraged to become active in the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA), which is the premier association of over 1500-member organizations-bus,
paratransit, rail systems-providing public transportation options. One of the central functions that APTA
offers is a number of workshops, seminars, conferences and resources throughout the year that
contribute to public transportation knowledge, development and growth. APTA also serves as a national
advocate for public transportation. Board Members are provided two free registrations annually to any
of these conferences identified and are encouraged to participate.
An Annual Board Retreat held during the first quarter of the year is a powerful development tool for the
Board to use with the senior leadership team to set vision, develop strategy and goals that are
integrated into the annual operations/ budget planning cycle.

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 9 of 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

Board Member Development

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 267

2.12.E.b

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Governance Manual - PENDING APPROVAL [Revision 1] (3827 : Revised Governance Manual)

Appendices

Governing Policies and Procedures




RTD Act, Article 9 of Title 32, C.R.S.
Board Bylaws
Major Laws Affecting RTD Board

Code of Ethics




RTD Code of Ethics/Board Ethics
State Code of Ethics, Part 1 of Article 18 of Title 24, C.R.S.
Board Operating Guidelines

Committee Structure




Board Meetings/Study Session Schedule
RTD Board Committees
Committee Descriptions

Committee Charters








Executive Committee
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Civil Rights Committee
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Finance, Administration, & Audit Committee
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Operations & Customer Service Committee

Board of Directors Local & Travel Policies



Frequently Asked Questions on Board Expenses
Highlights of Being a Board Member

General Manager Oversight







General Manager Compensation Philosophy
General Manager Hiring and Search Process
Procedures for Approving General Manager Business Expenses
Policy for General Manager Goal Setting
Policy on Evaluation Process for General Manager
Annual Performance Review

Updated 5/14/2019

Page 10 of 10

Document Owner: RTD Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 268

