May 9, 2019
Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Director Walker, is that you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it's me again. I hit the wrong button.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, no, that's all right. That's fine. We're just checking to see. We're going to
get started here, but we'll see. So we are on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Then, for the sake of the record, I will now convene the Thursday
May 9, 2019 meeting of the RTD Executive Committee. And for the sake of the record, I will
note that the Executive Manager of the Board, Ms. Barbara McManus, is present, that our Vice
Chair, Peggy Catlin, is present, that our Treasurer, Shelley Cook, is present, and our general
manager, Dave Genova, is present. So the five of us are in the room, and we have on the
telephone with us our Second Vice Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede. And Madam Second Vice
Chair, if you would just say that you're here so that we have a confirmation on the tape.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yeah, present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. OK. It's just that the camera sees the five of us. It
doesn't see you. And we wanted to have your voice there.
All right, so we haven't convened. We have, one, recommended action that has been brought
forth by the chair. And it relates to an expense policy amendment. And I hope that before we get
to the conclusion of this-- and we might even actually, I think, for the sake of the agenda, I'm
going to move this, administratively, to behind the May Board Meeting Agenda review, because
Director Walker, as the Secretary, has a direct and deep involvement in expense policies, and I
would like him to be present for the discussion. So in lieu of treating with the recommended
action at this time, we will adjust the agenda and put that after the May Board Meeting Agenda
review.
If you will look at your packet, you will see, attached, the draft agenda for the May 14 RTD
Board meeting. That is next Tuesday's meeting. And we note that we have two retirees. Do we
know whether they will be present, at least at this time? We do not know, right?
And then we have a number of actions, several on unanimous consent. And then we have a
number of recommended actions. One of them we'd like to bring to your special attention-- and
we'll talk about after we ask for questions-- the revised Governance Manual. We've presented
you with a copy. We think we've captured the various changes that we did on Tuesday night.
And it's an appropriate time for me to extend, on behalf of the Board office staff, apologies to the
Board for inconveniences experienced this last Tuesday night with the technology.

And I am advised that these were circumstances that arose out of the various technical factors
beyond the reach, beyond the scope, beyond the responsibility of the Board office staff. But they
labored mightily to get us through the meeting, and did in fact accomplish that in large measure.
And we are very focused on that issue, and are taking every reasonable step to ensure that those
inconveniences and glitches that impair the nature of the record that we're making for the benefit
of the public do not reoccur. And that is being addressed, and I assure you that both general
manager and our executive manager are well aware of that.
And for the sake of the record, I'll note that Secretary Walker, Director Jeff Walker, has now
joined us for the meeting. So all five of us are present, either on the telephone or in person.
JEFF WALKER: I apologize for being late.
Now, so in any event, there is the agenda. Before we get to the--a review of this Governance
Manual document, are there any questions, or comments, or proposed revisions to the agenda as
to any of the rest of the agenda, from any Director?
Hearing none, we'll ask for a motion in a minute to approve the agenda after we talk about the
Director's Governance Manual. You have before you what is intended to be-- and I think, but
we've got to double-check with Director Cook in particular-- the Governance Manual as
amended and presented on Tuesday night, and then as amended further by the action taken in the
meeting.
If you look at page 2 of the document which you have before you now, I believe that accurately
and adequately captures the amendment that we made relative to "RTD Directors must--" oops,
we missed this-- "comply with." So we've got to reinsert that, "comply with." So it will read, "as
elected officials, RTD Directors must--" and I'm sorry, I'm on paragraph number 3 at the bottom
of page 2. Will read, "as elected officials, RTD Directors must comply with any applicable
provision of Colorado Public Official Disclosure Law, which may require disclosure of certain
financial information."
So that was an extended discussion that we had. That amendment was approved and adopted.
Then if you turn to-- yeah, we'll come back for the other one. If you turn to page 9, the language
that was proposed by our Madam Treasurer concerning Board member development has been
included here. And this is the language that she submitted and circulated. And whereas I had
thought that we actually didn't take a final vote on that, I am advised by our General Counsel and
our Executive Manager that we did.
So that change that Director Cook proposed is incorporated here. Then, finally, in the last
paragraph, where you see the three words inserted, "for the Board," that was the motion of
Director Lubow, and the extended discussion had to do with the annual retreat, and the notion
that the Board held the dots, and not the staff. That's the shorthand description to describe
something that would take five minutes to explain.
There is, however, another-- so those are the changes that were voted on and approved.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and then administratively, on page 10, we added the
Independent Ethics Commission ruling that Rolf spoke of as part of the appendices.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, so that is an administrative add-on that was something we talked
about. Specifically, he addressed that specific letter ruling. So page 10, on the second grouping,
the second bullet is that insertion.
Now, the other matter or the other change-- Ms. McManus, help me with the page, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 5.
DOUG TISDALE: 5 OK if you will turn to page 5-- yes, thank you, that's what I had missed.
OK, there we are. It's so tiny. We have this change that was done. "Generally, the creation of
policy and establishing strategic direction are Board functions." Now, that, I remember we fixed
that.
I have a recollection-- and Director Cook, I think you were involved in this discussion, and I
want to follow up on that. And I think that Director Lubow made some comment about some
change here, too, which, as I recall, Director Lubow then withdrew and said, OK, fine, if we
have these other changes, I think that captures it.
Does anyone have any other recollection-- and I'm specifically addressing 1.4. Yes, Madam
Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, so I made a separate motion once she withdrew her motion. And the
wording included the exerting of oversight. I don't remember exactly where, but I think it was
after establishing strategic direction and exerting oversight are Board functions, whereas the
implementation policy is-PEGGY CATLIN: Right, that's missing.
DOUG TISDALE: And it was something to that effect. And unfortunately, as I say, forgive us,
the technological glitches we encountered have precluded our ability easily to go back and do
that. But it was something to that effect. I'm remembering that now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So if you could give me that language, we'll make the appropriate
changes.
PEGGY CATLIN: As I recall, it was "generally the creation of policy, establishing strategic
direction, oversight, and--"
DOUG TISDALE: And exercising oversight.
PEGGY CATLIN: --are Board functions.
SHELLEY COOK: That's right.

DOUG TISDALE: Right, so "the creation of policy," comma, delete the word, and, "establishing
strategic direction, and exercising oversight are Board functions."
SHELLEY COOK: Good.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, is there unanimous consent on the part of the Executive Committee-and I apologize, Madam Second Vice Chair, you don't have the document in front of you. Let me
read the original language on this section, 1.4, labeled Difference Between Governance and
Management Board, and then I will read you the amendment. The original language-- "generally
the creation of policy and establishing strategic direction are Board functions," dot dot dot. The
changes-- "to have agreed generally, the creation of policy, establishing strategic direction, and
exercising oversight are Board functions," dot dot dot. Do you understand that? That was
actually a question to you, Madam Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I did, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. Just wanted to confirm. OK, so now the question is, do we
believe we captured all the amendments? And I'm sorry for extending the discussion, but it's
important. Yes, Shelley.
SHELLEY COOK: With the exception of the word, "timely," before "provide Board documents"
on page 9 of 10 in the wording substituting.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, let us get there, please. Page 9, first paragraph.
SHELLEY COOK: In educating and bringing board members up to speed on items of
consideration, et cetera, till the period-- "to do so, they facilitate committee meetings, timely
provide Board documents, and hold one-on-ones with respective board members.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, I'm sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: Period.
DOUG TISDALE: Too fast. In the second sentence, you wish to insert the word, timely.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that was in the wording that I provided.
BARBARA MCMANUS: In front of "provide."
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, timely.
SHELLEY COOK: "Provide Board documents and hold one-on-ones with respective Board
members." And then that should be a period.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I thought we had caught that. My fault.
SHELLEY COOK: No, no worries.
PEGGY CATLIN: Boy, that's hard to see.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, because of the underscore.
DOUG TISDALE: I looked at this and I should have caught that. So after the word "members,"
period. Then, "Board members are highly encouraged." Thank you very much for catching that.
OK, so there are, for the sake of this record-- and it's on tape so we can go back and listen-- on
page 2, numbered paragraph 3, we will insert the words "comply with" after the word "must" in
the first line. Then, on page 5, in the discussion Difference Between Governance and
Management Board, in the fifth line, it will read "generally, the creation of policy, establishing
strategic direction, and exercising oversight are board functions," comma, the balance of the
language remaining unchanged.
Then, on page 9, in the third line, after "meetings," comma, and before the word "provide," insert
the word "timely." Then, on the next line after the phrase "respective Board members," insert a
period.
Are there any other changes to this document, as presented with the revisions?
SHELLEY COOK: You had the addition of Independent Ethics Commission ruling on-DOUG TISDALE: No, no, no, that's-- yeah, but I'm talking about changes to the changes.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK, got it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's right. That's one of the changes. I also didn't mention "for the Board,"
which is from the last paragraph on page 9. I'm just highlighting things that staff has to go back
now and make sure that they do prior to disseminating this packet today, because this goes for
the full board on Tuesday.
So any other comments or changes that anyone has found? And I can only say I'm glad that our
motion also includes administerial and typographical changes and so forth will be addressed by
staff going forward.
All right, so is there consensus on this Executive Committee-- we'll have a motion on the agenda
in a second-- is there a consensus that, as I have now articulated it, this document, with those
changes to be made, is what we're submitting to the Board? Is there consensus? I see head nods.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Second Vice Chair, consensus?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, there is. I just have one question. And I don't know if this
is right or not, but under Board document-- it's where the period was inserted, and then the next
wording is "Board members are highly encouraged and expected--"
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: "all meetings--" should that be, comma, "read all materials"
since everything else is plural? It's just a question I have.
DOUG TISDALE: You are correct, "read the materials." So we are on page 9, line 5 on that
page, "read the material," add an S to make that plural. "Read the materials." Good catch.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Good catch. OK. Other changes?
JEFF WALKER: Quick question. So I apologize again for being late. Are we allowed to identify
other small editorial-type changes in here, or just ones that-DOUG TISDALE: I mean, it is the function of the Executive Committee to adjust this to the
extent that it thinks is appropriate prior to going to the full Board. So if you have some other
things that you'd like to point out, let's do it now.
JEFF WALKER: OK, so one, third line of page 9, third line towards the end, "and hold one-onones."
DOUG TISDALE: There is a hyphen that's missing after the word "on." We will insert a hyphen
there. Thank you. That's a good catch, too. This goes back to why I want this to be administerial
in the future for those things. But good that we catch them.
Other thoughts relative to the Board of Directors Governance Manual, we have a consensus that
we have expressed a change in that consensus. Hearing none, that, by consensus is approved as
being part of the agenda. Now I need a motion to approve the agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Vice Chair, I have a second from the Treasurer, and
I have a question from the General Executive Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So there-- no, I'm sorry, go on.

DOUG TISDALE: OK, thanks, yeah, because we haven't gotten-- right, we're not borrowing
issues yet. OK, so the agenda as proposed is up for vote for approval of the agenda. All those in
favor of the agenda as stated, please indicate saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: There are none opposed. And we thank-- we count that as a unanimous vote
in favor. Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair.
Now, to go back on the agenda, because we tabled this until you got here. Under recommended
action for this committee, there's a separate discussion. And that's a proposed expense policy
amendment that has been brought forward. And this amendment reads. It is recommended by the
Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
approve an amendment for the RDT Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual
paren expense policy regarding the attendance or participation of a Director's spouse, or
significant other, or invited guest in a local transit-related event when the Director is unable to
attend the event.
And the language appropriate to that is found in your Executive Committee packet if you will-no, it's not. That's right, no, because we haven't. But we have circulated previously, to the
members of the Executive Committee, a draft proposed expense policy amendment, and this is a
time where it's appropriate for us to talk about it. It is not a time-sensitive matter. It might be nice
to get it done and out of the way, but it's not time-sensitive.
And I do want to emphasize I've had discussions with several Directors relative to this, including
members of the Executive Committee, concerning this particular amendment. And do we have
the language handy, perchance? Do you have-BARBARA MCMANUS: I have it.
DOUG TISDALE: Does somebody have that? Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, me too.
DOUG TISDALE: Which page am I looking at? No, I'm looking for the proposed language that
would be the actual amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: It's page 4 of 16, or packet page 10, if I'm right.
DOUG TISDALE: I don't know that we have it in here. Is that it? Is that the new language?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, OK.

BARBARA MCMANUS: That's the actual policy, not the Board report.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, yes, that's right. And I'm just looking at the policy now. The proposal
that we're addressing on this expense policy amendment would be to add a new clause. This
clause would read, "Directors serve as ambassadors for the entire agency and its mission when
attending local transit-related events. A Director is not authorized to delegate that ambassadorial
duty to a spouse or significant other, or other invited guests if the Director is unable to attend
such events personally. As such, it is appropriate for any such other person to refrain from
attending an event in Director's stead." That's the proposed language. As I said, it came up
because there was discussion relative to this topic, and oh, gosh, what might happen in the future.
And I will personalize this. And I have used the example that there's a woman that I am currently
dating that I take to various events. If I were not able to make an event but we had a dinner, such
as the DRCOG awards dinner, I would not expect that woman to show up in my stead at the
DRCOG award dinner because I was otherwise unavailable. That's what this is intended to
address.
That's the proposal. And in order to have a discussion, it would be appropriate that we first have
a motion to adopt. You can vote for it or against it, but to discuss it, we have to have a motion.
So may I have a motion to approve the expense policy amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion, there is a second. Now we can have discussion. Thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have thoughts.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I really appreciate this recommended action. I'm wondering if
we could also insert in there somehow-- and I don't know, I'm just asking the question, that those
same spouses or whoever is going with you to a conference not to attend Board meetings or any
kind of gathering where the Board is meeting to discuss issues for the district.
DOUG TISDALE: Help us flesh that out a little more so that we make sure we understand it,
please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I am thinking that, in the past, I have been in a conference
where another Board Director would bring their significant other, and actually sit in on the
meetings, and actually speak in those meetings, for instance, in Washington, when we were
discussing going and meeting with our elected officials. And wondering if somehow we need to
put in here that meetings where it requires the RTD Board of Directors, the elected officials, to
only be the ones present in those meetings as well? Am I making-- is that clear?

DOUG TISDALE: No, I-- yes, I do understand what you're saying. And I appreciate that. And
I'll be happy to entertain discussion. I will offer one observation, just that we, I think, perhaps,
need to be mindful of in that circumstance.
Should such Director be in need of a personal assistant or aide by virtue of any disability, I think
we would probably have to consider the impact applicable law, which could include Americans
with Disabilities Act.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Understood.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think that's something I just want to make sure we are aware of.
PEGGY CATLIN: Could we, if I might?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Instead of attendance, could we rephrase it to say "participate" so as not to
give the impression of representing RTD Board or policy?
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Yeah, I think there is-- and that's why we need the discussion. I
understand your point. And I think it is well taken. And there may even be another word beyond
participate-- to actively engage in, or something to that effect.
I mean, it's one thing to be there. And this is a horrible example. But I use it. I will exaggerate to
illustrate because it's easier to understand an exaggerated example.
If, for example, an individual needed a seeing-eye dog to be with them in order to function, it is
not expected that the seeing-eye dog would participate. It is, after all, a dog. If you have a person
assuming the function of that companion, aide, assistant, again, same thing. You would not
expect them actively to engage or participate in the discussion at such events.
I hear what you're saying. I'm just trying to frame the issues, not prejudge discussion. Yes,
Madam Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I agree with the comments made by both the First and Second Vice
Chair. I like the idea of participation. The only other thought, and I couldn't tell-- I'd have to hear
it again-- is if Angie's suggestion included a distinction between official business we'd be
undertaking and social events. So that would be the only thought is to make sure that the wording
distinguishes between the two.
PEGGY CATLIN: Official business.
DOUG TISDALE: As I heard the recommendation by the Second Vice Chair, related to business
functions or business meetings of the RTD, as opposed to, for example, a cocktail party. Am I
correct? I want to make sure I understand you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is absolutely correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Other thoughts? And, again, neither of these is particularly timesensitive. They're important. They're not urgent. Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I think that is-- this is Jeff. I think that is a important distinction between
social events, community events, and business events, when three of us are together. So pretty
much anybody could be there. Our travels are posted like when we go to APTA.
But at a social event, like, for instance, DRCOG, a recent event, having somebody sent in my
stead, instead of me being there, it's a different environment. That's not a meeting. Policy's not
being discussed.
But a person could be there saying, I'm representing Jeff Walker because he couldn't make it.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's-- mm-hm.
JEFF WALKER: So I think that this is fair because then the money spent on that event-- for a
couple of reasons. The money spent on the event is supposed to be for the Director and partner,
companion. And it's kind of a misrepresentation because we don't have reps like Denver City
Council does. They have people that they can send out to-- they have aides.
So in social settings, community events, yeah, I think it's appropriate. Business meetings, it
might be hard to enforce that. But we definitely wouldn't expect them to participate as a member
if they're present during a business meeting when three or more of us are there.
DOUG TISDALE: Mm-hm. And let me just, for the sake of clarity as we go on in the discussion,
suggest that I think the observation made by the Second Vice Chair is worthwhile and useful. I
think it's not something that ties in with the expense policy discussion specifically. And I think
we might want to articulate that separately and find where-- and I think the Executive Manager
of the office, the Board office, can assist us in looking where might be the appropriate place for
that to go.
I think it is a worthwhile consideration. And I would suggest that-- and I'm going to shut up in a
second because we haven't heard from the Vice Chair-- First Vice Chair yet. I'm going to suggest
that if we want to look at that as well, it may be a good idea to table this so as to have both things
come together at one time, instead of looking like we're trying to create a one-two punch on
something. It may emphasize the significance of this beyond its actual significance. And I just
think that we, perhaps, could consider that.
How do we say it in the Governance Manual? Political consideration sometimes can be taken
into account. And so I think that perhaps we could do that. So I'll be quiet. Madam Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciate the very last statement about the significance. I had some
reservations about this because it seems to me that it's stating something that common practice

would dictate and that social norms would dictate. So to have it memorialized in policy, rather
than maybe having a one-on-one conversation seems to me a little bit of overkill.
But that's just a concern I have. It's not-- I'm not adamant about it. But it just seems a little
awkward to me.
So it just seems to me that most people-- and I consider this Board-- would consider that
behavior that we're trying to address to be inappropriate. And it wouldn't come up. So I'm a little
bit uncomfortable with it. But I can-DOUG TISDALE: Do I read that-PEGGY CATLIN: I can understand-DOUG TISDALE: --as a motion to table?
PEGGY CATLIN: You can. [CHUCKLES]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I'll take it as a motion to table. Is there a second to-JEFF WALKER: To when?
DOUG TISDALE: Ah, well, OK, excellent thought. May I suggest that what I heard was to
allow such time as we might have for further exploration and discussion amongst ourselves and
with other directors one on one, so as not to constitute a meeting the meeting, relative to the two
issues that are here? Because I take it that the motion to table would be to table this proposed
recommended action, together with tabling the proposal that has been raised by Second Vice
Chair in the course of this discussion, and would give us the time to articulate some further
policy.
And so was it your intention, Madam Vice Chair, that we table this for one or two months?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think one month would be fine-DOUG TISDALE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: --personally. I just think that it's a little bit awkward. As you stated, there's
two kind of distinct issues here. And it may be better just to combine them and put them in one
place, rather than in the expense policy.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so there's a motion to table this, together with discussion on the
Second Vice Chair's proposal, for a period of one month. Is there a second on the motion to
table?
JEFF WALKER: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: Second, OK. That's a non-debatable motion. All those in favor of tabling this
discussion for a period of one month, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? Let the record reflect that we have a unanimous
decision to table this discussion, relative to this recommended action item, together with the
discussion of the proposal as articulated by Second Vice Chair, who will do us the favor of
giving us a very brief one- or two-sentence email articulating the thought so that we have a
record of it, for a period of one month. So that stands addressed and concluded.
I can stretch these things out longer than anybody had any idea sometimes. I just wonder. OK,
now we turn to other matters.
And I've already addressed the one concerning the technological glitch and reported to you on
how things are in the process of being resolved. So that's good. So I have no other matters.
Before I-PEGGY CATLIN: Can you give some specifics on that?
DOUG TISDALE: Say it again.
PEGGY CATLIN: How they're-- can you provide some specifics on how they're being resolved,
the technical glitches-DOUG TISDALE: Actually-PEGGY CATLIN: --as the Executive Manager?
DOUG TISDALE: --if Executive Manager might just want to give us a brief statement on what
we're doing to fix this going forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we're working with Communications so that they can take over
their piece of the meeting management that the Board office has been doing for over a year in
their stead, and working with them to get their procedures up and moving. We're working with
IT to either get some training for their technicians on some of the issues that we're having,
because they aren't able to be addressed currently, and we're also upgrading one of our processes
here in the Board office. We had a glitch on Tuesday that we've never seen before.
So just a little bit of background, the software that we use has been sold to two larger companies
in the past three years. The current company, we know that they're not doing any further
development on that software. But based on operating systems-- Microsoft, so on and so forth-there are some changes that they have to make and push out updates.
So they pushed out an update on Tuesday that we had to force because it wouldn't let us operate
without implementing it. But it caused a problem in loading the packet because the packet was

created in a different version. So while you were having your meeting and doing everything
manually, we had to back out that update, and then we were able to produce going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, my.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I just wanted to say, you know, IT reliably follows Murphy's law in
that when something's going to go wrong, it goes wrong at the very worst possible time. And I
just thought it wasn't that big of a deal. I mean, everybody kind of rolled with it. And you all got
it up and running again within the meeting. So-BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the issue-SHELLEY COOK: --we didn't want to lay too much on-BARBARA MCMANUS: The issue being is we have to go to the backup for the video. So we
don't know if we'll have any video at all to upload to the website. So that's a bit of an issue.
And because we had to interrupt the recording, we don't have a full recording, which is why we
didn't have anything to go back to, to capture the exact verbiage, as we would have in the past.
So, you know, just other things in the background that you wouldn't see in the meeting but are
part of interrupting the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, that-- thank you. That helps.
DOUG TISDALE: I think it's important to note, the optics were all good. We look like we were
doing OK with that. But the reality is we have-- and I hesitate to say it on another record. But we
have an imperfect record of that meeting.
We don't have a record. And we don't manually take minutes. And so we rely upon the electronic
record to serve in compliance with state law, the state audit from 2010, and so forth to satisfy our
obligations. We don't have that. We didn't do that --.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We will have an audio. But it takes some time to get. We just didn't
have it for this meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: So-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, that's good-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: --there is--

PEGGY CATLIN: --that there's an audio.
DOUG TISDALE: --the concern.
DAVE GENOVA: That's that part of the backup, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mm-hm.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I could be picky, though.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's distracting when one of our technicians is talking to, whether it's on the
phone-BARBARA MCMANUS: We've addressed that.
PEGGY CATLIN: --or whether it's to-BARBARA MCMANUS: We've addressed that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: It was distracting for me.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: So-DAVE GENOVA: No, it was.
DOUG TISDALE: It has been noted that it was distracting to a number of Directors.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK, well.
DOUG TISDALE: No, but your voice adds an attaboy-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, and any comments-DOUG TISDALE: --to that comment.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --and observations are always welcome, because when we're back
there doing what we normally do and then trying to remediate other things that are going on, we
don't always observe every single thing. And we like that feedback.

PEGGY CATLIN: Well, kudos to you, and also kudos to Nikki. She was just right on top of it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: And she, I mean, she really stepped up and helped all of us.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I wanted to commend her for that.
DAVE GENOVA: And if I could just add on, it's like three systems that are tied together. So it's
not just one system. So there's some interfaces, too, that are-- that sometimes present a challenge
to us.
So it's not a matter of, you know, is it this system causing the issue? Is it this one? Is it this one?
So-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we have three different towers that we're looking at issues at
and trying to resolve.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: God bless you. [CHUCKLES]
DAVE GENOVA: But we do have a completely redundant video and audio recording system. So
the security system's always running. So that's what we use for the redundant piece. And I
assume that's where you're getting the full audio recording from.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we have a second audio that-DAVE GENOVA: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --that we-- that would be a third backup. But for the video, it's the
safety and security system. It's proprietary software. So when we need a backup, as we do this
time, we have to include outside vendors because the file sizes and the type of files need to be
totally converted and then brought down to a file size that we can upload to the website.
So we don't know if that will be successful or not.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good luck.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But we are working on it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Wow.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so--

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just was wondering.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's fine. Are we satisfied with the discussion on-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: --this other matter then, relative to the technical glitch and our-PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate-DOUG TISDALE: --steps taken to resolve it?
PEGGY CATLIN: --more detail.
DOUG TISDALE: And usually, what we do is we go around with the Board Members first to
see if they have other matters before we open up to the General Manager to give us any
observations on other matters that he has. So let me ask first on the telephone, Madam Second
Vice Chair, do you have any other matters that you would like to bring forward at this time?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right, Madam First Vice Chair, any other matters
you'd like to bring before us at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not at this time, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Mr. Secretary, any matters that you'd like to bring
forward before we go to Mr. Genova?
JEFF WALKER: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Madam Treasurer, any items you'd like to bring forward at this time?
SHELLEY COOK: No. A question. I know we'll be taking up an item I'll be recusing myself
from. Is it our practice that I leave the room? Or how does that-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Upon recusal, yes, the best practice is to excuse yourself from the room, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I'll be outside then. And just let me know when I should come back in
or if I should.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I have to admit, I'm not even certain what the matter would be.
SHELLEY COOK: The bench.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, the bench. Oh, crap. I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Bench or leaning post-- what is it?
SHELLEY COOK: They're a leaning bench.
PEGGY CATLIN: Leaning bench, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Let the record reflect that was not the word C-R-A-P. I was saying rats. OK,
yes, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's what I heard.
DOUG TISDALE: As to that, if you would, before we go to General Manager, yes, it is
appropriate now that we will take up another matter that the Chair would like to bring forward
having to do with a request concerning use of local expense funds. And for this discussion, let
the record reflect that-- and before I excuse her, I'll let you ask your question-- that the Treasurer
will recuse herself from the discussion, will excuse herself from the room. Mr. Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: I'm wondering what the reason for the recusal is.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, that will become obvious as we talk about this, if we may. And if I can,
well, I'll say, there is a proposal that has been made by the Treasurer that, as a Director, she be
allowed to use local expense funds for purposes of paying for or subsidizing the placement of
leaning rails at certain bus stops in the City of Arvada. So it's something that directly impacts
her. And pursuant to our expense policy, if an expense-- and this is the full discussion. And I'm
going to have to recuse her in a second, but I want to give you the background first.
If an expense request is made that falls outside of-JEFF WALKER: Oh, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: --the express purposes for expense reimbursement, the chair has discretion to
approve that, but it's subject to the approval of the Executive Committee. And as the request
comes from the Treasurer, and she is a member of the Executive Committee, it would be
inappropriate for her to vote on this.
So at this time, there's another question, and then we'll deal with it.
PEGGY CATLIN: May I ask a question of the Treasurer?
DOUG TISDALE: If it doesn't relate to the substance. I mean, otherwise, we do kind of run
afoul of the procedures.
PEGGY CATLIN: My understanding-- and if I'm-- I apologize. My understanding was that this
was to leverage an existing contract, and that it was-- time was of the essence.

DOUG TISDALE: It goes enough to the substance, I'm going to ask that she recuse herself at
this time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, all right, so the Treasurer will now excuse herself from the room,
having recused herself from this discussion concerning this matter. If you can then distribute,
Ms. McManus, those materials, just so people have it. And so in brief, let me just be a little more
fulsome.
Director Catlin has requested that she be allowed to take-- and I think I originally stated it as-PEGGY CATLIN: No, Director Cook.
DOUG TISDALE: --$1,000. It's actually $2,000.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE:
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, Director Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Not Catlin.
DOUG TISDALE: Hell, all those Cs. I get them-PEGGY CATLIN: I know.
DOUG TISDALE: --messed up all the time. [CHUCKLES] That Director Cook has requested
that $2,000 from her local expense budget be allowed to be spent in either directly paying for or
in providing a partial subsidy to the City of Arvada relative to the installation of some leaning
rails. Again, the expense-- it's not, obviously, an allowed expense under our-- an expense policy.
You don't go around paying for capital improvements with your expense money. There are
limited purposes.
That said, there is an escape clause that says that activities, or, I'm sorry, expenses incurred that
appertain to the activities of the district may be approved by the Chair. But it also provides that
the Chair must seek advice and recommendations from the Executive Committee. This Chair
would not take that action upon itself in terms of approving. So we come to the Executive
Committee.
And the four of us, who are left in the room now that she has recused herself, are the ones who
have to say, OK, do we think it's OK that we do this? And I'll recognize the memo that was
circulated to you earlier gives all of the detail and also all of the downside in terms of trying to

participate in the contract, as opposed to an idea to which we must give credit to our CFO,
saying, if Arvada wants to go ahead and do this, we can enter into an IGA or an MOU or
something with Arvada to say, tell you what, we'll give you a reimbursement of a portion of that
cost, which comes from Director Cook's-PEGGY CATLIN: Budget.
DOUG TISDALE: --expense account.
PEGGY CATLIN: My-DOUG TISDALE: That's the story.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, and I'm aware of this. My question was that I understood that timing
was of the essence. And it seems like Heather's proposal would address that. But I just don't
know if it's too late, if that contractor's still mobilized. That was my point. That's why I wanted
to know if-DOUG TISDALE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: To my knowledge, the contractor is mobilized-PEGGY CATLIN: Oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --still.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just knew that there was-BARBARA MCMANUS: There are-PEGGY CATLIN: --imminent, compressed time frame.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are three benches involved here, one of which Director Cook is
purchasing. So, yes, everything is in motion. And, you know, timing is of the essence.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we don't know what the timing would be in working with the
City of Arvada in getting an MOU or an IGA in place would look like.
DOUG TISDALE: And I may-- let me correct myself on that. That really related to if we were
entering into a deal. I shouldn't phrase it that way. I think it could be a simple letter from
Director Cook to the City of Arvada saying, you are installing three benches-- leaning rails, I
think, is what they're called.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.

DOUG TISDALE: You're installing three leaning rails. I am prepared to contribute to the City of
Arvada $2,000 to reimburse the city for the cost of one of those leaning rails. It is only for that
purpose. I'm not creating any obligation to go forward. I'm just giving you some money to
reimburse you. And that's a singular act of her.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I appreciate that. That's simpler than what-- what I had understood was
that that was not-- the benches were not originally in the scope of work. And that was the time-but it sounds like they are in the scope of work now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well-PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know originally.
PEGGY CATLIN: But-BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know originally what the arrangement was.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mm-hm.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And, Dave, I don't know if a letter from Treasurer Cook is going to
suffice to get us where we need to be in light of some of the discussions-DAVE GENOVA: Let me just quickly step out and see if Rolf is-DOUG TISDALE: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: --downstairs. He could say.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Resume.
PEGGY CATLIN: In general, I'm supportive of it. I was just fearing that it might be-- we might
be acting too late. I don't know.
DOUG TISDALE: Well-PEGGY CATLIN: That was all.
DOUG TISDALE: --I hear what you're saying. And regrettably, we really have worked as
quickly as we could on this. You will see-PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that's-- I'm not trying to find fault.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I know. I know.

PEGGY CATLIN: I just was worried about it.
DOUG TISDALE: And the thing is, you'll see that all these hoops, each one of these paragraphs
constitute a hoop that should have been gone through in this process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I know.
DOUG TISDALE: We're now seeking to find a way, is there any avenue to circumvent-PEGGY CATLIN: Those hoops.
DOUG TISDALE: --all these hoops and get for Treasurer Cook what she'd like to see happen.
There is no question I think everybody in the room would say, what a wonderful, selfless
thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: Exactly.
DOUG TISDALE: But one also has to consider-- and this is one of the other issues-- is it a
slippery slope, too? You do have to think about that as well, because the creativity of Directors is
something I never underestimate. And we could see all kinds of things.
But I did want, in good faith, for the Board to-- I'm sorry, for the Executive Committee to see
this. As I said, I certainly wasn't going to do it alone. And it's important that you all have an
opportunity to weigh in on it.
So I take it that General Counsel is not immediately available.
DAVE GENOVA: He's not, and neither was Jennifer. So-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and, I mean, we have, I think, the benefit of his thoughts, because what
I did in creating this memo that I have circulated to each of you was have Barbara, our Executive
Manager, talk with Heather McKillop, and with Rolf Asphaug, and I think with several others.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And we compiled all of those interviews and all that information into this one
memo so that it wouldn't be a question of having to read half a dozen memos and try to sort it
out. I went through that exercise and sorted it out. So there's the question.
Now, let me ask General Manager, while you're here, you see all this, and you heard the
suggestion that it was our Chief Financial Officer who said, well, perhaps we can just have her
contribute funds that are dedicated funds. We would have to make clear in the transmittal of
funds that they are exclusively to be used for that purpose. They are what we call in the law
restricted funds. They are not used for other purposes. They are restricted to that single purpose-acquisition and installation of a leaning rail on an RTD bus stop, period. General Manager.

DAVE GENOVA: I believe we can handle this with a form of a letter agreement that would not
be as maybe complex as an IGA or an MOU. We also may want to, though, mention the
maintenance in there. And so-DOUG TISDALE: That we wash our hands of it.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I would assume that, yeah, we would state in there we're making a
contribution-BARBARA MCMANUS: And/or replacement was brought up.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. So, you know, we would just have to address that. And speaking of the
attorneys, there might be something on, I don't know about liability or anything like that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to say, liability.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could it just be a letter of agreement-- a one-time letter of
agreement that, she's asking for $1,000, not $2,000.
DOUG TISDALE: And actually, and it was my typo in saying 1. She actually did request 2.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: She showed me her original memo. And I had misread it, because it was
$1,000 each. And she was asking for $2,000 is the way she framed it-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: --to me. So the request is actually $2,000. And it comes out of her expense
account. So, I mean, the point is, it doesn't matter what the amount is that she wanted, in my
view. That's not the critical issue here.
If she wanted to use $3,000 for this, and we think it's a good idea, that's fine. But I think it's got
to be done in such a way, as General Manager says, that we say, this is simply a contribution for
a restricted purpose. And it creates no obligation or continuing duty on our part of any kind,
nature, or sort whatsoever. We don't have to say, you know, or maintenance or anything.
PEGGY CATLIN: Or precedence.
DOUG TISDALE: We just say, of any kind, nature, or sort whatsoever.
PEGGY CATLIN: I like the fact that it is very much a transit benefit. And, for me, I thought it
was a great idea.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would have to agree with that. I think that in the area that she's
talking about, there is a real need for the community to have something in place while they're
waiting for their buses to come. And I think it shows the connection between a Board member
and her community. I really support this, particularly as a TDM component.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Mr. Secretary, you've been quiet.
JEFF WALKER: I've been eating.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, well we gave you a chance. Now, you can talk.
JEFF WALKER: So I don't like the idea of using-- while I support the project in principle-- I
think it's fantastic-- I don't like the idea of using funds designated for one purpose for another
purpose without a mechanism to do that. So, for instance, we can move our local expense money
to our travel expense and vice versa, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But you can't move IT.
JEFF WALKER: But we cannot move IT because it's designated for IT. So I think there are
other avenues to fulfill this. But I think the public, whether or not they know they have that
expectation, there is the expectation that these funds designated for these purposes should only
be spent on these purposes, unless there's something that says they can be used for other
purposes.
But there's-- you know, there's fundraisers. You know, any of us can get on the horn and say,
hey, we've got this project.
DOUG TISDALE: And call up somebody, and-JEFF WALKER: Let's raise some money, for this, for these people. The campaign funds can be
given to a 501(c)3. And that, if there is one set up for this type of purpose-- not this one
specifically, but for these types of things-- we can do that. So there are lots of other avenues
where that kind of money can be spent, and it's allowed.
But in this case, it's not allowed, unless the legislature changes what we can do. I don't think this
should be done, although I fully support it. And I would look at any revenue cutting or-- but the
bus stop on the-- there's a bus stop on Hampden, where the students got together, and they did
the artwork behind the bus stop.
DOUG TISDALE: TJ.
JEFF WALKER: It's just east of--

DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, TJ.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, yeah, thank you. You know, they took care of that.
DAVE GENOVA: We did have an agreement on that, though, and they do pay the insurance.
JEFF WALKER: Right, but it's not coming out of my-- it's not coming out of money that's not
meant for that purpose.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: So it's just the purpose of this money. The color of this money should be not
to-- its designated purpose. That's my only hesitation about this.
DOUG TISDALE: No, and the-- I'm sorry, the RTD Act provides that directors may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred that appertain to the activities of the district. And it may be that
one could make an argument, well, capital improvement is an activity of the district. But it's
capital; it's not expenses.
But then, as I said, in terms of the policy relative to the power of the shared expenses that are of
unusual nature, certainly, this is an unusual nature, because on balance, I think the only way we
can go forward is if it is a contribution of restricted funds. And it is a specified purpose with no
strings of any kind, nature, or whatsoever.
Trying to do it as she actually is using the money for the construction has too many legal pitfalls.
We can't get there. It just, it can't happen.
And so the question is, is it a bad precedent to say, yeah, you can use your funds to make a
contribution to a city to do something that is transit-related? Because it's definitely transitrelated.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mm-hm.
DOUG TISDALE: But can you make a contribution to a city to do something that is transitrelated? I mean, god bless her, I love the idea. And I want to see if there's any way that we can
do it. But I also want to make sure that we all consider what are the potential pitfalls -PEGGY CATLIN: Well, let me ask this question. And I probably should know. But when Board
Members don't use all of their expense money-- I know I didn't use all of mine last year.
DOUG TISDALE: It just went away.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would suggest that Jeff doesn't use his. Certainly, Director Menten doesn't
use hers. Where does that extra money go?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It goes back to the general fund, where all-- yes.

PEGGY CATLIN: Does it go back to the Board office?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: No. So-DOUG TISDALE: No, it comes back to the RTD.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And in the past, we've had this discussion. And directors for
certain districts have said, if I don't use my money, it's my business. It should go back to the
agency. No one else should reappropriate it anywhere else.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I'm glad to hear that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: But so that is a little bit extra money that the agency has that could be spent
on capital.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it goes back into the-PEGGY CATLIN: The general fund, I know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --the general fund.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then they re-evaluate all of the projects-PEGGY CATLIN: Priorities.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --that have been deferred and try to push those forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I know it does go back into the process. But-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I mean, remember, they are budgeted dollars. It's not like they
somehow expended them. And then they're-PEGGY CATLIN: No, I-DOUG TISDALE: --given back. It's that we haven't spent-PEGGY CATLIN: We're splitting hairs-DOUG TISDALE: --budgeted dollars.

PEGGY CATLIN: --a little bit here. I just am saying that, in effect, those-- not surplus funds, but
those funds would be reallocated to another purpose other than forward expenses.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. So what I'm hearing-- and I want to make sure I understand this. What
I'm hearing is a general support for the notion that we could authorize Director Cook's local
expense fund up to $2,000 to be contributed to the City of Arvada for a specific limited purpose,
with no further obligation, involvement, liability of any kind, nature, or sort whatsoever, and that
I hear Second Vice Chair speaking in support of that. I hear First Vice Chair speaking in support
of that. I hear the Secretary expressing reservations about that.
JEFF WALKER: If I may, I'd rather see this as a budget item. And we do those once in a while,
occasionally. I don't know how it would be read, but reduce Director's expense report by X
dollars appropriated to the capital budget for this expense for this-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no, I hear what you say there. In other words, is there a way,
bookkeeping-wise, in effect, to say, she may now have a $10,000 local expense budget, as
opposed to $12,000 for calendar year, fiscal year 2019, with the understanding that staff is then
charged with responsibility of contributing that? That's one thought you raise.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well-DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That sort of was an issue we wanted to stay away from, because it
goes against some of the agency policies. We don't do benches. So RTD can't spend money
putting a bench in, because it goes against that policy.
JEFF WALKER: That's right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean-JEFF WALKER: It doesn't meet the threshold.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, thank you. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And, you know, there were some other concerns because of the
location of the bench. You know, Michael Washington got involved because-JEFF WALKER: So the partnership-BARBARA MCMANUS: There's-- yeah, I mean, the Chair's overview was just that there is a lot
of detail behind that overview that went to discussion bringing this forward. And the agency
can't be involved really at all.

JEFF WALKER: But you can contribute to the-- to an entity that does these things. And they can
use that $2,000 for anything in their scope. OK, thank you for that.
DOUG TISDALE: So, crap. Well, here's the thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: He said it twice.
DOUG TISDALE: It is, according to our-- I don't make up the rules. I just try to, hopefully,
implement them. According to our expense policy, it is a call that the Chair has the power to
make. But it does so essentially with advice and recommendation from the Executive
Committee. And I think the recommendation that I hear from those who are allowed to weigh in
on this is to go ahead and allow it.
I have the right, obviously, as Chair to say, well, OK, that's fine. I hear what you say. But I think
I'm going to go with what the Secretary says. I guess the one thing I'd like to do, because I don't
know that we've presented this precise question to the General Counsel. We've presented the
overall thing. And then Heather said, well, maybe you can get around it by-- and the question is,
if we present this express workaround to the General Counsel, if he says, no, it's still a problem,
then I'm going to say, as Chair-- and I'll take the heat singly-- no, we can't do it.
If he says, yeah, actually, no, that is an effective workaround, you can do it, then I would be
inclined to go ahead and do it, having heard the advice and recommendations of the members of
the Executive Committee. How do you all feel about that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with that.
JEFF WALKER: I'm good with it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: The-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Second Vice Chair, are you OK with that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I just want to ask the question, is there not another
part of the money that we can tap into? If we can't do it, is there a discretionary fund somewhere
where we can do it?
DOUG TISDALE: I'll let both General Manager and Executive Manager weigh in on that. That's
above my pay grade.
PEGGY CATLIN: A charitable contribution.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Malpiede, I think the issue with that is that it would,
regardless of where we take it out of agency money, it's a violation of policies we already have in
place. So if we took money out of the agency and put it towards this bench, which happens to be

in front of a Section 8 housing development, every other district could come to us and say that
we need to put a bench at the bus stop at every single Section 8 housing facility throughout the
district.
DOUG TISDALE: And that doing so is a violation of the equity that we are required by federal
law to provide.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That was one discussion that was pretty prevalent that I heard. And I'll
defer now to General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: I think that's an important distinction, because, you know, obviously, well,
we have lots of budget line items. And we do have an operational contingency line item that we
decide on those issues at the Senior Leadership Team. And that's really to deal with-- the reason
we have that in the budget is so by department, by department isn't budgeting their own
contingency. And so this is a tool that we've used to make that contingency as tight as we
possibly can.
So we have a process that we go through at Senior Leadership. If somebody has a need for
something that wasn't previously budgeted, they come in and make the case. But as Barbara
McManus pointed out, it's not so much the budget issue. It's the other issue around transit equity.
And that is more problematic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: So that said, it's a longer way of saying, no, we can't. So with that in mind,
are you OK with proceeding as I have described?
PEGGY CATLIN: Would you kindly state-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I understand it correctly, if our attorney says yes, you would
say yes. If they say no, it's a problem, then it's a no.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, yes, if our General Counsel says, based upon the workaround that we've
described, which is a, briefly, one-time-only, $2,000 contribution to be made to the City of
Arvada with a restricted purpose, with no strings whatsoever, with a clear indication there is no
continuing obligation of any kind, and does not in any way, shape, or form create any kind of
other obligations, that if General Counsel says, yes, that contribution does not violate law, then I
would make the determination that, in fact, it was an allowed expense for the Director's local
fund. If General Counsel should say, no, that is not the case, it still constitutes a violation, or at
least exposes us to potential liability and so forth, then I would say, no, I'm sorry, respectfully,
we cannot do this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So I have two people who would speak in favor of that. I have one who
would be opposed. I will check with General Counsel, and we will proceed accordingly.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Long discussion, but it's important. It is. Can we get-yes, can we get our Treasurer back in the room at this time and then let the General Manager
proceed?
JEFF WALKER: So, Chair, so sorry, I have to leave
DOUG TISDALE: Sir.
JEFF WALKER: --but I just called in.
DOUG TISDALE: That's great. Thank you. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I heard the beep.
DOUG TISDALE: Glad you were here for that. That's important. OK, and I will have a
discussion with the Treasurer following this and let her know we're going to be proceeding and
what we think we can do.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: So and our Secretary is physically leaving the room, but he's already dialed
in. He's already on the phone with us. It's amazing what technology can do. Mr. General
Manager, the floor is yours.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. Not really any other matters, except I just want to let the
committee know, I've asked Mike Meader, just because we had those three accidents in kind of
such short term, to just put together a short summary on each one. They're still not through their
final investigation yet. But I'm hoping to have that before the Board meeting Tuesday, so the
Board will have at least a summary of what we know to date on those.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: OK. And I'm working with him on-- and I showed him some old format that I
used to use back when I was in that seat of some summaries that I've done in the past. But I think
I mentioned maybe to the-- some of the Board folks that kind of just got away from that, just
because, you know, with email and everything else now, information is just out so quickly, but
of, you know, reestablishing that practice, just so you have, the Board has as much information
available as possible to respond to questions and things like that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Where was the location of the semi or the tractor-trailer?
DAVE GENOVA: At Sable.

SHELLEY COOK: Sable.
DAVE GENOVA: In Aurora.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: So there's two grade crossings in Aurora-PEGGY CATLIN: Right.
DAVE GENOVA: --Sable and Chambers. And Chambers is the crossing where there's an
adjacent fuel depot. So that's been a crossing where the Colorado Motor Carriers Association-PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: --has raised concern-PEGGY CATLIN: You answered my question.
DAVE GENOVA: --with the hazardous materials.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: So it was not this crossing. And I reviewed this video with Mike Meader
earlier. I think it was Tuesday, right before the Committee meetings. And it really could have
been avoided. It was just some, you know, the driver-DOUG TISDALE: By the driver.
DAVE GENOVA: By the driver, I think-DOUG TISDALE: Could've been avoided by the driver.
DAVE GENOVA: --of the truck. You know, he entered the crossing. Right after-- shortly after
he entered is when it activated, when the flashing lights came on and the bells came on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mm-hm.
DAVE GENOVA: And the operator of the tractor-trailer stopped.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's-DAVE GENOVA: And then-PEGGY CATLIN: I was wondering about that, yeah.

DAVE GENOVA: And then tried to back up and stopped, and then came forward again, and
then kind of hesitated, and then came up in the train, which the operator did put the train into
emergency brake. But the train hits towards the rear of the trailer. So if the operator of the
tractor-trailer would have just continued through, it would've cleared in plenty of time. But
sometimes, and there's four sets of tracks there, and it's a long crossing. So sometimes people
kind of freeze up. So we don't-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, freak out a little bit.
SHELLEY COOK: Interesting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything other that any other Director-- and now, Director Walker, you're on
the phone, Director Rivera-Malpiede, you're on the phone-- the others that are in the room, are
there any other, other matters that any Director would like to bring forward at this time? All
right, let me close by saying that, number one, thank you all for your patience. Thank you all for
your participation.
Thank you all for your service, and to let you know that the people in Lone Tree and South
Metro Denver are thrilled beyond description and excited about next week. They hope they can
do half as well as Arvada and Wheat Ridge did in their celebrations of the opening of the G Line,
or as Marc Williams will have me say in perpetuity, the Gold Line. And they are looking forward
to a great time.
And, again, a special, separate word of thanks. When I say, thanks for your service, you all put in
a lot of additional time. And you all have all these other meetings that you attend as well. And
you have projects that you work on, and ideas that you bring to us.
No one says thank you enough to anybody about anything. I will try to say thank you more to
each of you to let you know that I personally appreciate it. And I know the other Directors do as
well. Thank you. If there's nothing further, than we stand adjourned at 1:20 PM on this Thursday,
May 9, 2019. Thank you, Directors on the phone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're welcome.
JEFF WALKER: Have a good day.

