2020-07-21
RTD Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. I will now call the Tuesday, July 21
RTD Board Meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the public participation portion
of tonight's agenda, please press star now. You will be placed into a queue and I will call on you
at the appropriate time.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and wait for me to
call on you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record
and to the proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on in this
evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will come and,
if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
There will be no Pledge of Allegiance this evening. And Ms. McManus, if you would not mind
doing the roll call.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus.
At RTD, safety is our core value. And I'd like to begin this meeting with the short safety briefing.
Frequently and thoroughly wash your hands, continue to practice physical distancing-- six feet is
the minimum-- minimize time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially when a
large number of people are present, and wear a mask at all times in public spaces, such as an office,
grocery store, and while using public transportation.
I will mention this one more time. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board
during the public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press star 3 now. You will be
placed into a queue and I will call on you at the appropriate-This evening we have no retiree awards in the month of July. And now I will go to our public
participation period, which is open to anyone who wants to speak. As is our custom, we allow any
of our elected officials present to speak first, so they can get back to their own meetings to attend
business.
If you have indicated you would like to speak to the Board by dialing star 3 on your phone, I will
call your name in the order in which you signed up. Each speaker is allowed three minutes.
Also, please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being audio recorded. So if
you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing
and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email both materials
to the Board Office at the following email address, board.office@rtd-denver.com. again. That's
board.office@rtd-denver.com.
The public participation period is not the appropriate venue for back and forth discussion amongst
speakers and the Board. Please do not anticipate that the Board will respond to questions and
comments at this time. For this reason, it is important that you state your name and address so that
someone may follow up with you at a later time.
For anyone just joining the call, if you would like to speak to the Board you can press star 3 on
your phone now and you will be placed into a queue. When it is your turn to speak, I will call you
by name.
And our first speaker for the evening is Erin Rollman.
ERIN ROLLMAN: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can hear you. If you can just state your name and address,
please.

ERIN ROLLMAN: Yes. My name is Erin Rollman. I live at 108 West Byers Place, 80223. That's
RTD District A. Thank you for taking my call.
I am calling in to urge the Board to support Director Lewis's resolution to provide fair and
expedient compensation for Raverro Stinnett not only to cover his medical expenses and legal fees,
but also to account for his livelihood being taken in such a violent way and to fire Allied Security.
I understand that they seem to have some kind of monopoly on large security contracts across the
country, but it is definitely time to approach RTD services with human-centered solutions. And
this is the chance to be on the front lines of positive, innovative change, reimagining how Denver
can move forward in a way that is truly safe for its citizens, something that clearly cannot happen
under the thumb of Allied Security, a company rife with violent incidents.
I urge you all to make-- as a small business owner dedicated to the performing arts, I am being
asked to reimagine everything about the way that I work. And I expect other sectors, such as
transportation, for example, to also be able to reimagine the possibility. We no longer accept that's
how it's always been done as excuse. We want you to [INAUDIBLE] up. Let Denver pave the way
for public transportation services that seek to help and protect citizens, meeting them with welltrained compassion, not brute force.
Be brave. Think big. Act now. Thank you. That's the end.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Erin.
Next we have Sean Hayes. Do we have Sean Hayes on the phone next?
SEAN HAYES: Oh, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you now. If you don't mind stating your name and
address, please.
SEAN HAYES: Yes. My name is Sean Hayes. I live at 1432 Columbine Street in Denver, 80206.
I feel lucky to be under the leadership of Shontel Lewis in District B. I say that because I have
followed her work. Sorry, there's a lot of background noise.
I say that because I've followed her work since her election. And I've also sat on several of these
Board calls and have been really-- could somebody else mute? Sorry. And also have sat on several
of these Board calls that have been really frustrated to hear the dismissal of issues facing your
constituents, all of your constituents, across the Metro area. I recognize that this job isn't easy and
I also feel your concerns are not always focused on the actual riders and operators of RTD buses
and trains but instead with people who have money and can pressure you politically to do what
they want you to do.
I've heard Board members downplay the recent uprising against racial injustice, calling it a
situation and patting yourselves on the back for stopping service downtown, when you did not do
so for the pandemic, as Director Lewis suggested. You instead decided to do so when so many in

the city decided to rise up against police violence against black, indigenous, and other people of
color communities, cutting off transport for jobs and important lifesaving needs. It says something
and it's seen by the community.
I'm on this call to support Director Lewis's resolution to remove RTD's contact with Allied Security
and reappropriate funds to employees who can secure better support for citizens and employees,
also to provide compensation to Raverro Stinnett.
Outside of people profiled for race and sexual orientation, as happens far too often in this country,
I have heard RTD staff on previous calls with the Board express concerns about people
experiencing mental health issues or other severe needs on RTD services, and I would like those
concerns addressed. But not through violence, by alternative safety measures like peer supports,
trained professionals who can get people the help they need, not harm that they will never recover
from, like the abuse Mr. Raverro Stinnett and many others across the country have faced at Allie's
hands.
Please, please support Director Lewis's resolution. Please just support Director Lewis and her work
for justice. . There's always a chance to shift your views. There is always a chance to shift the ways
that you have been in this situation. And I'm just pleading to please look inward and look at the
ways that you have been in these situations. There's always a chance.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Sean. Thank you so much for your call.
Next we have PJ Damico, Domico. Sorry If I didn't say that correctly.
PJ D'AMICO: No problem. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
PJ D'AMICO: Great. My name is PJ D'Amico. I am a very good friend of Raverro Stinnett.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sir, can you give your address?
PJ D'AMICO: My address, no longer in Denver. I'm a citizen in Atlanta, moving back to Denver
soon.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir.
PJ D'AMICO: I've been working with Raverro to get him justice for two years, two years too long.
And I know, in fact I just texted him that he's probably listening right now and he'd speak if he
could. But he has essentially a gag order until this is settled.
I want to bring to your attention your own strategy, which is this idea of a few bad apples. And I'm
going to quote your response to Colorado Public Radio. "As horrible as this incident is, this is
about a few bad individuals' behavior."

And so my question to each of you is exactly how many bad apples constitutes a problem? Is it
one, two, three, or in this case, four of your private security guards? What about the fact that they
have testified that they were instructed to do this? Or what about the fact that if you all just Google
on your computer, just now, just Google Allied Security assault and you'll find hundreds of
assaults, including murder, rape, and countless assaults.
And so what I don't understand is that how could you possibly have renewed this contract after
you knew that this assault had taken place? I am very clear, having studied Allied Universal's
business model and their $8 billion fraudulent process, why they do what they do.
But what I understand as elected officials whose job it is to protect and serve the public, how is it
that you could possibly say that these were a few bad apples. And aren't you now, the few bad
apples that you are, in a sense, describing Allied as?
I beg you, I know there are solutions. I know Shontel has been working tirelessly to change the
paradigm from having mental health workers rather than having armed militia on our track.
So please, I know you all are there because you did this to serve the public. Serve the public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
Carly Wolken.
CARLY WOLKEN: Hi. My name's Carly Wolken. I live at 427 Wright Street, number 302, in
Lakewood, 80228. And I'm calling because I also think it's time for-- way past time for Raverro
Stinnett to be compensated fairly and swiftly, because his livelihood and life were changed forever,
ruined his chance to become the next big Denver artist and the way that he was posed to create a
real career for himself.
And with the Allied Security guards pleading guilty to the violent racist attack on Raverro, there
is really no reason that Raverro has not been compensated yet. So it's time for him to receive
compensation for what happened to him at the hands of Allied, you know, RTD contracted.
And I also support Shontel Lewis's resolution to dissolve the contract with Allied and divest and
reinvest into the community and to professionals that will support con [AUDIO OUT] wellness.
And, you know, Denver's always a leader in being progressive and for setting an example for the
rest of the country about what's possible. And so I really want us to embody that spirit when we
imagine and reimagine what we can do as a city, as a community, and act in the best interests of
all committee members. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Carly.
Next we have Megan Quinn.
MEGAN QUINN: OK. Can you hear me?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
MEGAN QUINN: OK, thank you. My name is Megan Quinn. I live at 7500 East Quincy Avenue,
Denver, 80237. I'm calling in to express my support for Shontel Lewis's resolution to end the
contract with Allied Universal Security and direct that money into services that will address the
social, emotional, and mental needs of the community.
As someone who pre COVID took light rail five days a week from Southmoor station to Union
Station and back, I can say my personal experience I never once saw a need for someone with a
gun. What I did see was immense need for substance abuse counseling, housing solutions, and
mental health services.
I urge you to move Shontel's resolution up on the agenda to be addressed immediately, and I ask
you to support this resolution and do the right thing for the people of Colorado.
I would also like an explanation as to how one person able to sign away $40 million in another
contract with Allied Universal Security when there is an entire Board in place to oversee RTD. I
would like to know why you would allow another contract with Allied while Raverro Stinnett has
yet to receive any financial compensation for the abuses he has suffered at the hands of that
company.
What happened to Raverro by way of Allied Security is deplorable, and the lack of accountability
and dedication to justice for Raverro has been unacceptable. While we're Raverro has yet to receive
any compensation and closure, you gave Allied Security another contract and therefore chose to
put all who use RTD at risk.
I want to remind you in particular, Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede, that you are an elected official.
You are supposed to represent the people and respond to the people. We are speaking and we want
Allied Universal Securities out of RTD. We want that $40 million spent on resources and services
that support the well-being of all who use RTD. And we want immediate and just compensation
for Raverro Stinnett.
Lastly, I want to thank Director Shontel Lewis for standing for the people and your undying
support for RTD employees and RTD patrons. Thank you for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Megan.
Next I have Nikki Gay.
NIKKI GAY: Hi. How are you guys today? This is Nikki Gay, 9888 East Vassar Drive, Apartment
K13, Denver, Colorado, 80231.
The issues I wanted to address today, because I am a driver, are more about the front door barriers
that should be put in place for our safety of the drivers. The reason we employed the rear door
boarding was to keep our drivers safe. Well, I want to know what's changed? You guys stopped

caring? Because now we're boarding from the front and there's no mandatory masks. If the riders
are not wearing a mask, they should not be allowed forward.
Back in early March and early April, we were wearing and RTD not to wear a mask because we
would scare the passengers. However, now you see that a mask, it's mandatory. And even the
governor has mandated it.
So what are you doing to protect us? We should also be getting hazard pay. This whole job is a
hazard, all the way from people spitting on us, cussing at us, and now this pandemic. Hazard pay
should be rewarded and we shouldn't have to ask or beg for it. We've been on the front lines since
the beginning with no masks, when RTD wouldn't even provide masks or gloves.
We've been there for you. We're still there for you. Where's our compensation? That's all I have to
say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Nikki.
Next I have Dale Ambrosio.
DALE AMBROSIO: Hi. My name's Dale Ambrosio, I'm a chief head steward, check-in steward,
for the ATU 1772. My address is 9906 East Arizona Drive, Aurora, Colorado, 80247.
And my concerns are about the front door boarding without the plastic barriers being in place. It's
placing both our operators and our passengers at a grave risk. This should have been done a long
time ago when we brought this up with the outbreak of assaults on drivers. If they would have
done the plastic shields when we were getting all these assaults nationwide on drivers, they
wouldn't have to worry about putting these plastic shields up now to help protect us from the
COVID and assault from these passengers who get irate when we ask them if they could please
wear a mask.
This mandatory mask rule was instated by the governor a few days ago. And for us not to require
our passengers to have to board our buses and wear a mask in a confined public space on these
buses is ridiculous.
We want the rear door boarding back until the plastic shields are in place. We want our hazard
pay, because we've been essential front line workers. We've been the drivers out here face to face
with this since the beginning. We would like the compensation that we think we are entitled to.
I think RTD should step up and compensate the drivers with some hazard pay. For them to take
the $232 million from this CARES Act and use it for what they termed as shortfalls from the fare
box loss of revenue is ridiculous. RTD gets their revenues through state and federal funding and
sales tax, none of which have been cut. I think RTD is lining their pockets, taking this money from
the government, placing themselves further in debt, which is ridiculous.

It's a lot of mismanagement from my eyes. And the drivers I talk to are irate for not being able to
get their hazard pay for risking their lives every day with this COVID-19, which has become more
stable in the newest strain. I think that RTD needs to step up and do what is right. That is all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
Next I have Jeff Campbell. Hello, Mr. Campbell.
JEFF CAMPBELL: Hello and thank you for taking my call. And thank you, thank you for having
me, giving me the opportunity to speak. I am calling on behalf-- I am at 1105 South Cherry Street,
Denver, Colorado 80246.
And the reason I'm calling is because I am calling in support of Director Shontel Lewis's resolution
to reimagine safety and security on transit with compassion. I am also calling to respectfully
request that RTD ensure us that Raverro Stinnett's health and well-being is the utmost priority.
As Director Malpiede opened this meeting, the first thing that came out of her mouth was the safety
of the passengers was the most important thing to RTD. Well, then I'm sure that you understand
that ignoring Raverro Stinnett's condition is causing the stress to compound his injury. So the more
and more we wait to get him proper compensation and proper help, the more pain is being inflicted
on him.
I fail to understand why the General Manager was able to bypass the Board to renew the contract
with Allied Universal Security. And if we have a Board, an elected board, that is not overseeing
the money that's being spent, then really what is their purpose? That is my question.
And finally, I feel like that Allied Universal Security Services has proven to us beyond a shadow
of a doubt, because it was the sergeant in charge that night, April 28, 2018, when Raverro Stinnett
was assaulted, the sergeant in charge was the one who recruited his subordinate officers to be the
lookout for him while he assaulted. That is their training. That is their policy. That is their
character. That is who they are. And that's a bad, that's a black eye not on Raverro, but that is a
black eye on Denver to do business with an egregious gangster company such as Allied Universal
Security Services.
I thank you so much for giving me time. That is all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Campbell.
Next is Shannon Hoffman.
SHANNON HOFFMAN: Hello. All right. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you, yes.
SHANNON HOFFMAN: OK. My name is Shannon Hoffman. I live at 3604 Forest Street, Denver,
Colorado, 80207.

I am the proud resident of RTD District B, represented by Shontel Lewis. I am proud to be
represented by Director Lewis for so many reasons, including, thank you to the other folks that
have spoken tonight, she is also a person that was pushing for rear door boarding, pushing for PPE,
and supporting drivers and passengers. And right now I am especially proud to be represented by
Director Lewis with her resolution to remove RTD's contract with Allied Security and to
reappropriate those funds for employees who can provide social and emotional support for citizens.
Upon learning of the brutalization of local artist Raverro Stinnett by Allied Security guards at
Union Station, so many of our citizens have been propelled into action and we hope that it will
propel the RTD Board into action to provide Mr. Stinnett with a significant financial settlement.
I have been working with a group of concerned citizens to develop some research. And I know
that Raverro's incident is not isolated, as RTD commented to Colorado Public Radio last week.
And I can provide you with a list of incidents of violence by Allied Security that RTD has
compiled.
I believe that Shontel is on the right side of justice. And I hope that the other-- and believe, I truly
believe that it is within your hearts that the other Board members and the Board chair will get on
the right side of justice with us and support Shontel's resolution. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Shannon.
Next I have Kaylee Grier.
KAYLEE GRIER: Hi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi.
KAYLEE GRIER: I am at 99 East Arizona Avenue, 80201. And I am calling as a concerned citizen
to ask you to remove RTD's contract with Allied Security. These funds can and should be
reappropriated for alternative safety measures, proactive and community-oriented solutions, and
also financial compensation for Raverro Stinnett, who was brutally attacked by Allied Security
employees, including a commanding officer.
As many others have mentioned already, this is not an isolated incident. Continuing RTD's contract
with Allied Security leaves the people of Denver vulnerable to further attack and racial profiling.
It's time we end the cycle of enabling unpunished violence by state sanctioned officials and hold
the city of Denver to a higher, more ethical and compassionate standard.
From this point forward, I am refusing to utilize public transportation or the businesses inside
Union Station until the RTD and city of Denver terminate business with Allied Security and until
Raverro is provided with financial settlement. Please support Shontel's resolution and protect,
honor, and serve your constituents by doing so. And help Denver pave the way for what public
transportation can look like.
Thank you sincerely for your time. That is all I have to say.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Kaylee.
Next I have Denise Bowler.
DENISE BOWLER: Yes. My name is Denise Bowler. I live at 25 East Alameda Avenue,
apartment 4, Denver, Colorado, 80209.
My original question was the inaccessibility of the public restrooms in Union Station during
business hours. I was told by an RTD supervisor that it was a responsibility of security in Union
Station, which is the Allied Universal. I have been personally attacked on an RTD bus by a
passenger, and there was no security there or no assist there. I have witnessed the security basically
profiling individuals based on the way they are dressed or the way they appear and primarily
homeless people, people of color.
I, too, feel that the contract with Allied Universal should be terminated. Because I don't think that
having somebody who's supposed to be helping keep things safe and secure are actually attacking
patrons. And there definitely is a problem when you have a public concern that is paid for with
taxpayer dollars, and as a paying patron of public transportation I can't use a quote-unquote public
restroom because the security has pulled a gate across it and it's inaccessible with no explanation
and no one to answer a question. And there just needs to be something done.
And in addition to that, as a former driver, bus operator, there is no security for drivers. Shields
should have been installed many years ago. I've also been personally attacked by passengers as a
driver of public transportation. And I don't think that you guys should be putting drivers at
unnecessary risk without some kind of shield.
And an additional point, on a 40-foot bus that is 10 feet high, 8 feet wide, and 40 foot long, it is
pretty much virtually impossible to socially distance. Because you get double seats next to each
other. And I've been passed by by buses because they say they're full on routes that are busy. So
that situation needs to be addressed. And those resources that you're allocating for security could
be maybe redistributed to provide protection for drivers as well as-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Bowler. Thank you so much for-DENISE BOWLER: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next we have Megan Frank.
MEGAN FRANK: Hi. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
MEGAN FRANK: Hi. My name is Megan Frank. I'm at 3245 Forest in Denver, Colorado. I'm a
business owner, theater artist, and resident of Denver, and I grew up here.

I know that the Board has received the facts and figures approved continuing RTD's relationship
with Allied Security is necessary for the heatlh of our city. And I support that Raverro did not
receive just compensation. I really do believe in the power of story and I'm going to tell it, say a
few words about how Raverro Stinnett touched my life.
We were assigned to each other for an arts advocacy event for the currently houseless residents of
Denver. And our pursuit was to do everything asked and run around the city to get it done. And in
a rush of 24 hours, I watched Raverro haul pieces of plywood through town and design a mural,
cut out million little houses to paint their versions of what home means to them, discuss a way to,
with care, engage youth around the subject of houselessness.
I wear a big yellow rain slicker and a funny red nose. And Raverro did too, so we match. And I
have never met a person who was so deeply willing to care for others. I'm struck by the power of
the art that he made and his insatiable caring personality.
And now with his brain injury, making his art and making human connection is difficult. And it
should not be necessary to hear stories about Raverro's humanity in order to care about him, or
place him into the same system of injustice, or need to humanize a survivor of profiling, violent
discrimination through personal anecdotes in hopes to pull on your heart strings.
Every person who is a passenger of RTD here is using public space to wait for public transit and
should be treated equally regardless of their story. And Allied does not share this sensibility. Yet
you're entrusting this corporation with responsibility and liability for the well-being of RTD
passengers.
I implore you to please be on the right side of history by one, helping to immediately facilitate just
compensation and payment to Raverro Stinnett; two, to support Ms. Shontel Lewis of District B,
in which I am living, in her motion to discontinue RTD's relationship to Allied Security; and 3
three, hire professionals trained in mental health-based approaches that are trauma informed and
culturally safe.
Please act to facilitate public spaces to remain public and to transform RTD into a courageous
organization of proactive [AUDIO OUT] care. We elected you to be powerful leaders and we're
asking for this change now.
Thank you very much for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Megan.
Next is Michael Garcia.
MICHAEL GARCIA: Hi. Michael Garcia. Michael Garcia, Chief Steward, ATU 7072. My address
is 3410 South Platte River Drive, and that is Sheridan, Colorado, 80110.
Yeah. Just wanted-- getting back on pretty much what Dale said regarding protect transit workers,
you know, shields, PPE, passengers mask, and social distancing.

As far as social distancing, going to the lady prior to the last one, Denise, she had been passed up,
which plenty of passengers are getting passed up. We need to add more buses, since we're on a
modified Saturday route. We have plenty of buses sitting around and operators that could help in
that.
Again, hazardous, hero, front line pay, I mean, that would build our morale so good. As far as the
shields go, yeah, once again, just to echo what Dale said, it's nice we got the shield due to the virus.
However, it's basically going to help us as far as assaults.
Now, PPE that I would like the Board to really look at is ultraviolet lights. That would kill the
virus. I might be mistaken, but if you guys could do some research on that, ultraviolet lights will
kill the virus.
And a couple other notes I have here is, is the Board going to recognize the upcoming holidays?
That's a question.
And another comment I have. If you enforce the fares, you could eliminate raising fares every
year. If you get someone out there to enforce these fares, you'd make more than enough money.
People just walk by us like we're nobody, which they know that.
Anyway, that's pretty much all I have. I'd just ask the Board to do some research and deliver some
solutions, ideas for us, the transit workers. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Garcia.
Next I have Heather Current? Curnette.
HEATHER CURNET: Hello. My name is Heather Curnet. I'm calling from 3113 South Gaylord
Street, Englewood. That's District D. And I want to thank each of you for your public service and
for the opportunity to share my thoughts.
I think that we are all in agreement IN our desire for a safe, efficient, and affordable public transit
system. And I hope that we're also in agreement that that same system must be equitable. If the
last few months of paying attention have taught me anything, it's that safety looks and feels very
different for each of us.
And I'd like to take a moment to share a personal story regarding RTD. A couple of summers ago,
my extended family and I were heading downtown on the light rail. There were eight of us in the
car, all white. There was one other rider in the car who was a young black man, maybe 18. And
someone was coming through the car to check tickets.
And I didn't notice if this man was an RTD conductor or perhaps an Allied Security personnel. I
do not know that. But I did notice that he walked straight past us and directly toward that young
man. I could not hear what was said, but I saw it. The young man purchased ticket. And for some
reason, that exchange continued to go on for over a minute.

I watched his face become angry and sad, then defeated. And I know that I was witnessing that
young man, who was an RTD constituent, being racially profiled. It was so stark, in fact, that I felt
compelled to go to him after and tell him that I saw it and it was wrong and I'm sorry.
And in hindsight, I realize I was talking to the wrong person and I wish that I had asked the RTD
employee himself, or whoever that was, why he wasn't also checking our tickets. When you know
better, you do better.
When I think about that from a purely economic standpoint, if I'm tasked with asking and ensuring
that people have paid their fare, am I going to go to the group of eight first or to an individual
sitting by himself? That was not equity and that was not acceptable.
And it's time for RTD to reimagine how to run things. The resolution being proposed by Director
Lewis does just that by offering a transit ambassador program, alternative responses to non-violent
crimes, and by systematically addressing racial bias and profiling within RTD, amongst so many
other things in the proposal. As a rider, these things make me feel far safer than any armed security
ever could, because I know that my neighbors of color would also feel welcome and safe within
the RTD system.
In closing I see an opportunity before you that is truly forward thinking. You have a chance to try
something, to reimagine safety and equity in such a way as to make RTD the gold standard across
this nation, much the way Senate Bill 217 is leading the way in reimagining police accountability
in Colorado, much the way the Camden, New Jersey police department is being studied across the
nation by departments desiring safety and equity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Heather. Thank you so much for your call.
HEATHER CURNET: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Laura Vigil.
LAURA VIGIL: Hi. Good afternoon. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
LAURA VIGIL: My name is Laura Vigil. I live at 1540 Billings, slot number E-25, Aurora,
Colorado, 80011.
I am a RTD driver and I am very concerned about safety. I'm concerned about my safety and
passenger safety with the wearing of masks. I have family that is very susceptible to anything that
I may bring home. And that's very concerning to me. RTD doesn't have plexiglass barriers on the
buses that I drive. I don't feel safe. But I do go to work too. I need to make that paycheck to support
my family.
When we were doing back door boarding, I felt safe. But right now there's a lot of people who are
boarding, even though the mandatory mask was put in place by the governor, there's still people

who are boarding without face masks. And they're more than, not more than six feet apart from
me when they board. They ask questions. They don't wear masks. And I feel unsafe
I feel that RTD is not listening to our requests because we're still not being safe and we're not
feeling like RTD has our concerns at hand. We are frontline workers and we should be getting our
hazard pay. I think that's only right. And for RTD not to do that is showing that they do not care
about their drivers.
Our buses are not-- we can't social distance as well, because there's not enough room and we are
in confined spaces. And I just want the Board to know that I am very concerned, and I don't want
to be in jeopardy of taking anything home to my family .
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Laura.
Next I have Sherry Titus.
SHERRY TITUS: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
SHERRY TITUS: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you. Go ahead.
SHERRY TITUS: OK. My concern is security. You know, I've been hearing a lot of people talking
about getting rid of Allied and different things like that. That's the only security we got. You know,
I drive the 15. Wait, I go, I drive the 15. And from one point, from Billings to Union Station, when
we get to them points, we look for security to help us to get people off the bus because they will
not leave or get off the bus. And that's one of my concerns.
And I'm concerned about the masks. Because when you talk to different people and you ask them,
can they put on a mask, most of whom is either drunk or something, and they want to cuss you out
or spit on you or cough on you. And it just doesn't, it makes you just weary.
And I keep hearing, this whole time I was on the phone, I keep hearing that we're here for the
public. But who is here for us? I mean, who is standing by us? I've not ever heard anybody mention,
OK, well, we're going to stand by our drivers. Because without us, what you got? We need
somebody to stand up and say, hey, you know, enough is enough. We need to make sure that these
people are OK.
Because we're the ones that go to work faithfully day after day after day. And to the people-- I'm
so sorry about what happened to Mr. [INAUDIBLE]. But nobody-- I don't think anybody on that
Board or anybody who called in has been down to Union Station at 4:00 o'clock in the morning.

You'll see what goes on down there, where we can't even go to the bathroom without somebody
trying to rob you or trying to get something from you, or just people-- ooh, it's horrible.
And then the lady says the bathroom was blocked off and there was no way that she could get in
there, because there's been so many people in there doing drugs, they protect us. I need them to be
there. I want to feel secure. At least give us that. At least give us that. Don't take that away. We
need that.
I mean, we don't need a psychiatrist coming in talking about, well, why are you beating her up?
We need somebody who's going to come here and help us. And so I'm very concerned about all
that. We need someone to stand up for us. We're RTDs. We're your heart. Give us some credit for
that.
You know, we need hazard pay. We need protected. Think about us sometimes, too.
That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss Titus.
Next I have Ray Jaramillo.
RAY JARAMILLO: Yes. My name is Ray Jaramillo. I am the President of ATU Local 1772. My
address is 1676 East 135th Avenue, Thornton, 80241.
I am addressing issues that I feel should have been addressed long time ago I have been a bus
operator for 33 years. We as bus operators have to drive the buses with passengers without masks,
no social distancing, because our buses are fuller then they should be. And we have no plexiglass
to protect us.
We are doing a job that we have no control of keeping our safety and our passengers' safety. We
cannot ask passengers to put on a mask. We have not been given the right to even ask that.
Passengers are less than two feet away from us and they enter the bus and pay their fare. Many
take several minutes to do this, and many wearing no mask.
By reinstating the rear door entrance, this would alleviate the fear that our drivers. I realize that
RTD would be losing money if this was not reinstated. But this is our mighty dollar. That almighty
dollar worth more than our lives of our employees?
There have been several drivers from RTD, as well as contract drivers, who have contacted
COVID-19. RTD shows no concern for my well-being, our lives, or our family life.
Now that Governor Polis has mandated that wearing a mask in our public indoor spaces, does that
include our buses? Do we as drivers have the right to mandate this order in our buses? Will you
all respond to this matter?

We are doing a public service and I feel that RTD does not have enough concern for the ones out
in the public each and every day of the year. Many of us sit in our offices and work from home
and are not subject to this on a daily hourly basis. I wish I could stay home. But unfortunately, I
have a family that I need my support. As well, I have 300-plus drivers that come to me for answers
daily. They are all concerned and working in fear daily.
I certainly hope that this issues mentioned will be considered for our frontline workers and our bus
operators. Thank you for listening to me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Jaramillo.
Next I have Maro Zagoras.
MARO ZAGORAS: I use RTD when I'm downtown. I have an 86-year-old mother who comes
down using Bustang from the Aspen Valley. She uses RTD. And my 25-year-old daughter, who
is pursuing a master's degree.
I just want to say first, thank you so much for your service. I'm actually a federal mediator myself.
I work with elected officials all over the state of Colorado. I know today can be a challenging day
to address these issues.
But you know, today I gotta stand out and not be neutral mediator. I have to make some comments.
Because I want to remind all of us that we've got to follow our [AUDIO OUT] to uphold protection
the honoring and serving of the public in everything we do.
And I think it was Angie at the beginning of the call who said safety is RTD's primary concern, or
core concern. And I think it's wonderful to hear, because we've really got to protect these drivers
and the public.
I do want to implore you, though, that to truly protect these folks, we really do need to go all
financial support for Allied Universal Security by not contracting with them anymore, especially
because of how they treated Raverro Stinnett. The reason I say this, I've actually, I'm a teacher of
organizational development and leadership across the state of Colorado for 30 years. Allow me to
just mention the research, which I think is pretty stunning.
Staff very quickly ascertain the organization's leaders values. They pick them up very, very quickly
and they exhibit them. So that is just critical. There is no retraining an organization. There is a
organization that's been inculcated with certain values of how people should be treated equally.
That's how you know an organization is actually going to be really practicing what they preach.
So I just want to address that issue of could we retrain these guys. No, it's really a top down
management issue. And if you're looking for data on that, there's a great piece on the Coast Guard
years ago and how they handled Hurricane Katrina because of the values that were inculcated in
that federal agency.

Also just want to mention one other thing, which is I think at this point, really want to protect RTD
and what you guys provide to the public, but we also have to protect you all in terms of the public's
journey on your system. And we have to look out for the long-term financial sustainability of
transit for you all.
And I fear at this point that we've actually made it so that a protected journey is in question in the
public's eye. And I think really my consulting to you would be, think about your sustainability,
because if people don't feel safe it's going to impact it.
Also just want to mention to repair your reputation, you really have to go beyond just canceling
the contracts with Allied. You really have to show good faith, at this point, a sense of interpersonal
responsibility by supporting Raverro. Substantial damage was done to this young man and his
financial interests. So I-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Just for the record, could you give us your
address, please?
OK. Next I have Alex Manos.
ALEX MANOS: Hi. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
ALEX MANOS: Hello? OK, great. Yeah, my address is 1145 South Clevis, Apartment 106.
I just want to echo some of the sentiment people have expressed recently, with some extra
emphasis on the inclusion of some form of mental health counselors, or at least social workers, to
be present on trains in place of enforcement. I think that that begins to speak to healing an issue as
opposed to just hitting it with a stick until it goes away.
I know that one of the drivers previously expressed that she may not feel safe without
[INAUDIBLE] enforcement officers. And I would like to acknowledge that and kind of begin to
put at ease the idea of ending the security contract with Allied immediately and rather phasing it
down over time and phasing up the inclusion of these mental health care workers. As you begin to
see the problem begin to get addressed, there is a very good likelihood that there would be less of
these sort of violent episodes as people begin to get the care that they might need.
I would also like to ask and request for the inclusion of more transparency in the breakdown of the
budget, especially when there's funding going towards private organizations, such as Allied
Security. I'm not sure what that would look like. I think it would be very important for the public
to be able to trust that funding is being allocated appropriately among these organizations that are
providing a public service.
And yeah, that's what I have to say.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much, Alex.
Next we have Yvette Trujillo.
YVETTE TRUJILLO: Hello.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Yvette.
YVETTE TRUJILLO: Hi. This is Yvette Trujillo and I am out of Thornton, Colorado. I am an
international vice president with Amalgamated Transit Union.
And it pains me to know that this is the fifth consecutive month that I've called in pleading on
behalf of my friends, family, and co-workers who all have put in years of service with RTD and
during one of the most trying times in this country's history are faced every day with the decision
of putting their lives and their family's life at risk to go to work without plexiglass barriers.
RTD has passengers boarding through the front door. Our operators are allowed, let people know
that masks are required but there is no support from RTD on enforcing that passengers wear masks,
although the governor has deemed it a public health crisis and is required masks in all public
spaces. RTD bus is a public space.
We also believe strongly that our operators deserve hazard pay. They have come to work every
single day since this crisis started, while everyone else, including the Board of Directors and RTD
senior leadership team, has been safe at home practicing social distancing. Our drivers have not
had that convenience.
We are urging you to pay them hazard pay, put more buses out to prevent overcrowding, support
them when they ask that passengers wear masks, and also to provide pre-shift screening as ordered
by the health department for RTD and all of its contractors.
We also support Shontel Lewis's resolution and want our drivers to understand clearly that this is
not an attempt to take security off the bus. There is actually included in the resolution that involves
the employees on the front line and ensuring that their safety needs are met. And it's so important.
And I think RTD has the ability right now to do what's right and again be a leader in our
community, and also not only help our employees feel safe, but ensure that our pass-- [AUDIO
OUT].
Nobody should ride an RTD bus and feel that they run a risk of, again, not only COVID right now,
but of being personally attacked and abused by security teams that are there to protect them. And
I hope this gets resolved and I hope I don't have to call in again next month making the same plea.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
Next is Scott Esserman.

SCOTT ESSERMAN: Yes. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
SCOTT ESSERMAN: OK, just a moment. My name is Scott Esserman. I live at 1900 Niagara
Street, Denver, Colorado, 80220. I am in District B.
And I want you to know that I've been watching and I've been listening, not just tonight but
numerous other meetings. I am here, we are here, to borrow a phrase from recently passed civil
rights icon representative John Lewis, for good trouble. Perhaps you're familiar with the author of
How To Be An Anti-Racist, and numerous other books, Ibram Kendi, who tells us that individuals
and organizations cannot exist as not racist. We are either racist or anti-racist. Which one are you?
I think I know the answer, and it's not pretty.
Can you point to a single action that you've taken as a board that would be considered anti-racist?
I'm dubious. I think it's much more likely you've engaged in actions that leave you open to a variety
of EEOC complaints or discrimination lawsuit.
Further, I am puzzled. I have questions. You as a board certainly don't represent the bulk of the
RTD district, the bulk of your ridership, or the majority of employees and operators we've heard
from tonight. You don't listen to and, in fact, attempt to muzzle one of the few members who does
represent them. Who do you represent?
Why isn't Director Lewis's resolution prioritizing alternative safety on the agenda tonight? That's
a troubling question you're going to have to answer. Why won't you even discuss terminating the
Allied Security contract? Why won't you even discuss terminating intergovernmental agreements
with police forces? Why are you as a group so terrified of engaging with community as is suggested
in that resolution? Why is Director Lewis constantly forced to be the conscience of this board?
Why are you incapable of supporting her when she does?
I have seen, and continue to bear witness, to the discrepancy in how Director Lewis is treated in
contrast to other Board members. I witness Board meetings where I witnessed you attempt to
silence her. This must stop immediately.
Why are required Board meetings scheduled during the day when working people cannot attend?
We know which committees Director Lewis serves on. And don't think about continuing to
suppress her voice. We are behind her. We support her. We love her.
You have an opportunity to do what is right moving forward. I sincerely hope that's what you will
do. I recognize you may be feeling defensive and think you may already be doing what is right.
I'm here to disabuse you of that notion and let you know you're wrong.
I want to end by saying this. Under no circumstances should Director Lewis be targeted, critiqued,
or otherwise confronted about the people showed up tonight. Not a single one of you should email,
call her, or otherwise communicate to question or condemn her about this. We've shown up
because we believe it-- no, I've got 15--.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next is Ian Tafoya.
IAN TAFOYA: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
IAN TAFOYA: Hi, Angie. Hi, Shontel. Nice to talk with you.
I'm here speaking on behalf of the Colorado Latino Forum, which perhaps many of you know on
the Board, or not. We're a board of 11 members who are currently elected leaders, have been
elected leaders, or run for office.
I'm here today because indigenous, black, immigrant, and vulnerable communities in Denver rely
on RTD for most of their transit needs. These communities are also the most unjustly targeted and
profiled by security guards and law enforcement. With such knowledge, RTD cannot continue to
engage in oppression of disenfranchised communities in Denver, but not only contracting with
Allied Security but also by not investigating and implementing alternative modes of safety that do
not rely on force of weapons and violence.
RTD should reject the notions of profiling and security abuse of riders committed by the security
guards of Allied, a company with a well-documented pattern of abuse and brutality against
unhoused neighbors, workers rights violations, religious bias, and sexual harassment, racism, and
retaliation. Therefore, CLF demands that not only the city of Denver and RTD terminate all current
and outstanding contract with Allied Security effective immediately, but they should also put
alternative security measures in effect.
In addition, CLF supports a new resolution to be introduced by Director Shontel Lewis that allots
funding in the amount of $30 million toward outreach and support to riders in the form of mental
health, behavior and social supports, transit ambassadors and additional just interventions that treat
all riders as human beings.
Our ask is that you support this new resolution in order prioritize additional safety measures to all
riders. Compensate Raverro, God dammit. And private forces is where bad cops will go. We
literally are reforming our entire system and we know that the bad cops will go here and continue
this abuse. Privatized security forces have got to go, not also to mention undoing the IGA at the
Union Station, which makes the place unwelcome for most and a pause on the unaccessible for
small businesses.
And dang it, give the workers their hazard pay and their shields. They deserve it. We're all frontline
workers. And shutting down buses during the protests, in my opinion, was an illegal infringement
on First Amendment rights by people of color who've been pushed to the suburbs to voice their
opinion on the awful white supremacy that has been part of our society for far too long.
And after many attempts to contact you, Director, the Chair, I believe it's time to call for revenues
to be out for aides for you and directors so that you can truly be responsive to your community.

I'd like to close by saying to all those listening and all those that are joining that we have more
work to do and we have to keep showing up. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ian.
Next I have Angela Williams.
ANGELA WILLIAMS: Hi there. This is Angela Williams. I am an RTD employee of 26 years.
And I live in the District. I live in Thornton at 4201 East 94th Avenue.
And I am calling to stand behind what Yvette Salazar said, what Ian Trujillo said, we need
protection to be guarded out there. I would like to thank Shontel for all she's done on, not just on
our behalf, but the public because. If we as operators aren't safe, the passengers aren't safe either.
So we need to get together and figure something out and do something. Not just have meetings,
because you're having meetings every month and what has been accomplished? We don't have
hazard pay. There's front door boarding. Nowhere, when you were pulling the messages through
every stop, are you telling people, but you need to be ready at each stop. You need to make sure
you're not lingering at fare boxes over the drivers. You need to make sure you have your mask on.
There was no educating the public to get on our buses properly. All it was about is collecting fares.
There was nothing about keeping us safe. These shields, they're not even going to stay. They did
surveys for the shields. But I don't think they listened. They just went with the first thing that they
had. They didn't try to cover us better.
The mental health issue, yes, it's a huge issue and it needs to be dealt with. But it also can't be dealt
with at our expense keeping us safe. So like I said, I stand with Yvette Trujillo, with what Ian just
said, what some of my other co-workers said.
And we need to do something about keeping our private contractors safe. They have had nothing
compared-- we've had little, teensy bits and they have had nothing. RTD's Board of Directors are
responsible. They put that contract out there. They're to be pushing First Transit trans dev to keep
their employees safe. And we need to be safe.
We need security out there. Like I said, we need to make sure that they're continuing to keep us in
PPE. We need hazard pay. There's so many issues. And like I said, you can't have another meeting
where it's just a meeting, or how many months into this pandemic and nothing to show for it.
So that's what I have to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Angela.
Next I have Bob Denninger.

BOB DENNINGER: Hi there. My name is Bob Denninger. I live at 3675 South Hooker Street,
Sheridan, Colorado, 80110. And I am Director of Communications with ATU Local 1772, the
local that has been the most vocal. And we have good reason to be.
We are all scared and we do not feel safe. And if safety is a hallmark of RTD, a core value, then
you'd better line up the menu so it matches the meal. Because it sure doesn't.
We've collected several hundred signatures to Interim COO and GM Paul Ballard. We've requested
many times that there be compliance with the public health order. At the outset, in April, we
requested that we order which recommended 20% maximum capacity on the vehicles be followed.
RTD chose 50%. The order requires RTD, as all large employers are required to do, to scan the
temperatures and to survey the operators pre shift as to whether they might have any symptom.
RTD has not done so.
Safety as a core value is not the case. I'll stop there. I look forward to hearing discussion tonight
that is proactive and that does what should have been done in April and, in some cases, years ago.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
Next I have Kira Jackson.
KIRA JACKSON: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
KIRA JACKSON: Great. My name is Kira Jackson. I live at 14764 East Scott Place in the 80239.
I am in, I'm a constituent of district B. I'm represented by Shontel Lewis.
Just a quick shout out to Shontel Lewis. Thank you so much for continuously advocating for me,
for my family, and neighbors, many of them who are on the call today. Thank you for always
looking out for our safety and ensuring that we, all of us, have access to the system.
So really quick, to the rest of the Board, I'm very confused, extremely confused. So I'm just going
to read something, and tell me if this sounds familiar. Hopefully it does.
Meet our constituents present and future public transit needs by providing safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost effective service throughout the District. So you probably forgot,
but that's actually the first bullet point of your mission that's on your website.
So what stuck out to me was safe. Obviously, we must have different definitions of what safety
means. So let me tell you as a black woman what that means to me. And an example, not fearing
for my safety because of my skin color, my sex. Not being ignored because of my skin color or
because of my sex. Not being profiled because of my skin color or my sex. Especially not having
to watch a security guard from the corner of my eye at all times because of my skin color and my
sex.

Your continued actions of ignoring Mr. Stinnett and dehumanizing him and ignoring the harm that
you're responsible for or ignoring the safety concerns raised by your own drivers, your own
employees, literally the lifeblood of RTD, continues to tell me that you do not know that that's
your mission statement. So you continue to justify a system that caters just to you but ignores
everyone else.
So what's the truth? Is that really your mission statement? This is what I want. Like everyone else
said on this call, we want hazard pay for these drivers. We need rear door boarding. Social
distancing must be required. Plexiglass must be put in place in every single bus. But especially
this Board needs to stand behind Director Lewis and her resolution. We have the chance to build
safety, a safe culture, a safe transit system for all, not just-- so again, I'm really confused about
your mission statement. I hope that you can provide some more clarity, because obviously we have
different definitions.
And that's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Kira.
Next I have KC Hutch.
KC HUTCH: Hi there. Can you hear me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
KC HUTCH: So I am not as eloquently put as some of the people who have spoken already this
evening. But I am calling because I believe that Allied Security Services are racist, terrible people.
And RTD is supposed to be a public service for the people.
And Raverro Stinnett deserves his money. He deserves some sort of compensation for his now
pretty much ruined life. He cannot paint anymore. He was finally getting a chance and making his
way to a full ride scholarship to Rocky Mountain College of Art and Design. He was an up and
coming artist and he can't even paint anymore.
Put yourself in his shoes. Put your kids in his shoes. What would happen? What would you do if
that was somebody you knew, your family member?
Pay Raverro Stinnett. Take care of Raverro Stinnett. Pay Raverro Stinnett. Take care of Raverro
Stinnett. Justice for Raverro Stinnett. Fire Allied Security Services. There has to be another
company that is not in cahoots with privatized prisons. This is ridiculous.
That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, KC.
Next I have Marion Johnson.

MARION JOHNSON: Yes, hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hello.
MARION JOHNSON: Hi. I'm Marion . I am a resident of RTD's District B. My address is 1950
Trenton Street, Denver, 80220.
I stand with Shontel Lewis and her resolution to cancel Allied Security Services' contract. As a
citizen who pays to utilize public transit, I should feel safe and secure in knowing that if I were
victimized and brutalized by an RTD contracted employee, the Board of Directors would do what
is right and not only hold my perpetrators accountable, but the company that employs them.
I humbly come to you not only as a member of the Justice for Raverro campaign, but as a mother,
a daughter, a sister, and a member of the community you have sworn to serve, asking you to act in
concert with what is right, moral, and just. Sever ties with Allied Universal Security Services and
stand for justice, not just for Raverro Stinnett, but the rest of your community who voted for
confidence that you would serve your community with pride and conviction of character.
Let's use those funds to hire trained professionals who can provide compassionate, adequate
service to the public, as well as its drivers out there risking their lives as frontline workers.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Marion.
Next I have Amy Lynn Herman.
AMY LYNN HERMAN: Yes, thank you so much. I am at 1331 East 14th Avenue in Denver,
Colorado, 80218, in District A, the jurisdiction of Director Kate Williams.
So RTD has a fiduciary responsibility to do the right thing in our community, including healing
the social contract that's expected by all local riders who utilize our shared transportation system.
And that's why I'm counting on Board members to support Director Shontel Lewis's resolution to
reimagine RTD's safety policies and immediately end its contract with Allied Universal Security
Services.
I'm calling on you to provide a significant settlement that brings justice to the case of Raverro
Stinnett, a local artist who endured physical and emotional trauma at the hands of Allied Universal
Security Services. My understanding is that RTD maintains a $40 million contract with them
without any modifications to its training, hiring practices, or policies.
And I'm a local educator and a social leader, and I also hold a security guard license in the Denver
metro region. I'm engaging with thousands of people in our community through my work in the
nightlife and hospitality industries. And I'm appalled that RTD maintains contract.

I'm fingerprinted. I've gone through a federal background check and my business is bonded. In my
role, it's required extensive nonviolence and de-escalation training. And I ask emotionally
intelligent questions to make sure that people who come into my presence know that I can help
them navigate their experiences in community safely.
It means everything to me to provide these critical security measures and I want to know that it
matters to anyone who is employed or represented by RTD, including any organization that reaps
the benefits of funding by RTD. As a citizen, I expect any government agency to be informed by
best thinking and best practices and I would expect that would apply to any current and any future
contracts that RTD would pursue.
It would also be wise to reappropriate those funds to support a network of professionals going
beyond security guards. As a professional, I imagine that would include people who are trained in
supporting mental health emergencies.
Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you for your leadership. Do the right thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Amy.
Next I have Erica Brown.
ERICA BROWN: Yes, I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're on, ma'am. Go ahead.
ERICA BROWN: OK, thank you.
First, I would like to say-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, can I have your address for the record, please?
ERICA BROWN: 1950 Trenton Street, Denver, 80220.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
ERICA BROWN: You're welcome. I am a member of District B.
I ask you to support Director Shontel Lewis's resolution and also ask for justice for Raverro
Stinnett. I am a parent. I am a grandmother. I'm a great grandmother. If this were your children,
you'd be up in arms wanting justice for your child. How can you in good conscience ignore what's
going on with Raverro Stinnett? He is someone's child. He is someone's friend.
You know better but you're not doing better. I personally won't come downtown anymore because
I don't feel safe. And I'm sure other people think the way I do, and other downtown businesses are
suffering as well because other people don't feel safe coming downtown. So that's lost revenue to
not only RTD but to businesses downtown.

Frankly, seeing an Allied Services employee scares me. How can you all so consistently ignore
the needs of your constituency? Because the thing is, without leadership and without your drivers,
you guys on the Board don't have jobs. And I just, I don't understand it,
I am a 40-year resident of Denver. I'm a musician. Many, many years, I have had to take RTD to
ride downtown, ride different places in the city. And I know a lot of my fellow musicians do too.
And now, none of us feel safe. Because the protocols that you all need to put in place to not only
protect the riders but to protect the drivers is not happening.
Allied Universal Services has an awful record. And if training were going to work with them, it
would be working. We call for you to sever all ties with Allied Universal Services and cancel that
$40 million contract. Because what it winds up being is just business as usual.
I just don't understand why you're being so lax about safety. You guys are going to listen to this,
and then you all are going to get in your safe little cars and you're going to drive home and some
of you are probably going to giggle about this or whatever, or you're just go blow it off.
But remember that the people who are calling in here tonight have networks. Those people have
networks. And those people have networks. And we are all talking about what's going on with
RTD's Board and the fact that you need to give justice to Raverro Stinnett. That man is-- he's
struggling. And he shouldn't struggle. Everything that should be done has not been done. We need
justice for Raverro. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for your call.
Next I have Shaun Lee.
SHAUNA LEE STRUCKER METZ: Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hello.
SHAUNA LEE STRUCKER METZ: Hello.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is this Sean?
SHAUNA LEE STRUCKER METZ: This is Shauna, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. You're on.
SHAUNA LEE STRUCKER METZ: Hi there. This is Shauna Lee Strucker Metz at 405 Main in
Lyons, Colorado, 80540. I was born and raised in the Denver area. My husband, Sebastian Metz,
started the Guardian Angels in 1994. In 2005, he was brain injured.
We're now 15 years into this brain injury. Raverro Stinnett happens to be a friend of mine. I met
him in 2015 when we were working collectively on Stone Soup Revival, which was in aid to
criminalizing the Denver homeless population. He was a student at the time, a very soft spoken,

artistic gentleman, who we became friends with because of that event. He basically volunteered
his time and drew these beautiful storyboards for us. And this is how we became connected. And
also through Red Line, a nonprofit that is in town, which is where he was the night when he was
at a gala and he was leaving, returning to go home via Union Station.
The reason I bring up Sebastian Metz and his brain injury is because I'm very closely tied to this
for 15 years. And when you have a brain injury, your life is permanently altered, and we still deal
with this on a daily basis. Sebastian cannot have a job. He can't drive. He can't ride a bike. And
this has been 15 years. The most pervasive and successful therapy that happens is within the first
two years of a brain injury. And still nothing has been done to help Raverro.
And I'm so, so-- I don't even want to say disgusted, because whatever the superlative of that is
what I am. Because this should never be done to another human being. And I'm so sad to hear that
you say this is one-off incident, because it is not. People can go online and they can study and they
can see what the genesis of a company is and what the pervasive narrative of a company is. And
this one is not pretty. Allied is ugly.
And you need to understand that and you need to understand how pervasive it is. And what also is
pervasive is the message of all of your drivers not feeling safe and of your riders not feeling safe.
So there's a lot of work to do here. You have a lot of people who have their hearts in this and are
very invested in fixing this and changing this.
So I would suggest that everyone on board who is on this Board get on board with this change,
because it is absolutely crucial for this to be successful and for this to be successful for human
beings. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you so very much.
With no other callers in the queue, I'm going to call the public participation closed at this time.
Board members, the Committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any
corrections from Director? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will
become a part of the permanent record.
Next is the GM Executive Search and the GM Oversight and Performance Management Update.
Committee Chair Catlin, if you would at this time please share with us your comments regarding
the GM Executive Search and the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair.
As you know, this committee is serving two functions for this year only. One is the normal function
of the General Manager Oversight Committee and the second is the General Manager Executive
Search function.
We've been primarily focused on the latter and have an outside executive search firm that we have
hired who is helping us. We received a number of resumes from candidates all across the country

for the permanent General Manager. And the application deadline was July 10, and our consultant
assembled and evaluated and sorted all of those and presented the members of the General
Management Oversight Committee, as well as non-committee members, with those resumes to do
a review and provide comment.
That committee is scheduled tomorrow morning starting at 8:00 to discuss all of these resumes and
their preferences in hopes to narrow down the selection to approximately six candidates with
whom we will conduct interviews. So That's. The process on that.
With regard to the GMOC portion of the committee, that function, we are hoping to pass the core
goals and tactical goals for 2020 and 2021 that will form the basis for Mr. Ballard's evaluation and
going forward. And then we will be scheduling meetings to conduct those activities in the ensuing
weeks.
So with that, Madam Chair, unless anyone has any questions, that concludes my report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any questions from Board members?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
Thank you, Director Catlin, for that update. I don't have a question. I just have a comment. And
this is more for the folks who are listening in on this phone call. Director Catlin and I spoke about
some concerns regarding my attendance to the GMOC. And I wanted to address that publicly.
Because I think I've said on a number of calls that it's pretty difficult for me to be able to attend a
lot of these meetings that happen during work hours. And I recognize that it's much easier for staff
to be able to have these meetings during the 9:00 to 5:00 hours, but that does eliminate me from
some of these.
And I would say, as a Director, I really try my best to be available for those, to the point that I use
my vacation time to attend these meetings. And I don't go on-- and I bring that up because I know
we're going into this tomorrow, but it sounds like we have a pretty captive audience here. And I
know that many folks want to make sure that I'm representing them well. And it is in the bylaws
and so I want to honor that piece.
And so in the event that I am removed from the General Manager Oversight Committee, I just
wanted to give folks a heads up that it's not about my commitment to the work, it's just about the
timing. And unfortunately, it's more important for me to make sure that my kiddo goes to college
and he has a roof over his head than for me to devote time on different committees that happen
during the day where there's not a lot of flexibility in the times and dates that those are offered.
Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other board members have any
comments? OK.
I'm moving on to the approval of the Board meeting minutes for June 23, 2020. May I have a
motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting as of June 23, 2020?
BOB BROOM: Move approval. Bob Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I hear Director Broom.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Director Buzek. Unless there is any discussion, we'll
proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no votes on the approval of the Board meeting minutes?
OK, hearing none, that motion is adopted and the minutes are approved.
Let me begin with the Chair's report. Let me begin also by thanking the public for calling in today
and for their comments. I really appreciated hearing from every single one of you, and I think that
your voice is so important to all of us who sit on the RTD Board of Directors, as well as this
agency.
So let me go ahead and begin with my report. Board members, included in your packet for this
evening is the final report of the ad hoc committee that was tasked with taking a deep dive look at
the RTD's Code of Conduct. I have to say that I am so very proud of the work this committee has
done. And I want to take this opportunity to thank all of the members of the community, both those
from within the agency and our community partners.
And the committee met six times. And through all of our meetings, the discussion was civil,
respectful, and incredibly productive. And as a result, the Code of Conduct that we will be
considering tonight has been molded and refined into a great document. I believe I speak for the
Board in expressing our appreciation for everyone involved in this process and for their hard work
and their passion. So thank you.
I'm going to turn it over now to the General Manager's report. Mr. Ballard, would you please share
with us your report?
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Paul Ballard, General Manager and CEO.
And I have a few things I'd like to bring the Board up to speed on since our last Board meeting.
And you will see that all of us are staying busy on multiple activities, that we're not just dealing
with coronavirus, although that is at the top of our issues every single day.
But since our last Board meeting, I mentioned that I would be meeting with the Amalgamated
Transit Union Local 1001, and I did do that last month after the Board meeting. It was a very good
session, met with the leadership at the union hall. We exchanged thoughts and ideas. I briefed them
on where we are on our financial situation. And was a very, very good exchange of ideas. And I
appreciate them inviting me and giving me time to share my thoughts with them.

We've continued to have dialogue with the Denver Public Schools. We had a conference call
recently where we're trying to get more of their students to use our services over time, whenever
they do come back to school.
I've continued to have ongoing dialogue with the Denver Transit Partners Board Directors, trying
to build, in spite of some things that are going on, build a good relationship with them for the
future. We are partnered with them through 2044.
Continue to meet with the FTA regional administrator on financial and other matters. We continue
to get great support from the Federal Transit Administration.
And then recently I participated in a national Zoom rally led by the New York Metropolitan Transit
Authority which involved a dozen other CEOs around the country. And we all had a few minutes
to make the case for additional federal support for our transit systems. New York MTA felt it went
well. And shortly after the session was over, we got a request from Senator Gardner's office for a
copy of my remarks. So we know that folks were, in fact, [AUDIO OUT].
I've been working very closely with our Chief Operating Officer, Michael Ford, on a number of
issues. Two of the key ones are in reviewing our preparations for labor negotiations. Michael has
been working with some staff for some time now and we're doing a good job, and he's doing a
good job in putting together our positions. We're looking at the resources that we have. We have
an outside firm that we're working with that also gives us input. So that's coming along well.
I'm also working with him and the rail staff, Dave Jensen and the commuter rail staff, in reviewing
our readiness September 21 startup of the North line. And everything is looking very, very good
for that.
I spent several hours today with the Federal Railroad Administration. They are making a visit in
town. They're inspecting all of the commuter rail operations, both the North line as well as the
lines operated by the Eagle partnership. Thursday, we will be at the DTO facilities with the Federal
Railroad Administration.
And I'm pleased to say that the team that is here is the same team I worked with in Fort Worth,
Texas when we started up their line there. The chief inspector is someone that is very, very helpful
and he's giving us a lot of advice and counsel on the issues that we need to continue to pay attention
to as we get the North line ready to go.
All of our managers are continuing to work diligently in their respective areas. The task force
under Bruce Abel has been meeting every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday now for several weeks
and is putting together a package for the Board's consideration by the end of the month to address
the shortfall that we are facing financially for 2021 in particular.
And I do want to close by saying that we continue to benefit from the leadership shown by our
Chair, the Committee Chairs, and all the members of the Board through these challenging times.
We appreciate what you do. We appreciate your leadership. And we appreciate your support.

And Madam Chair, that concludes my report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard.
Next we have our committee reports.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: I was under the impression we could have questions of the General Manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I am so sorry, Director Tisdale. Of course. Are there any
questions for the General Manager?
DOUG TISDALE: I know there was another Director who spoke up so I would gladly yield and
come back to me after that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Okey doke. Why don't we just go down-- who is it?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten, and I will yield to Director Tisdale and go afterwards. I'm
fine with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
Mr. Ballard, there were many important points that were raised during public comment this
evening, many of which deserve serious attention. But let me ask about just one particular issue.
And that is the polycarbonate shields, sometimes referred to as plexiglass shields, but the
polycarbonate shields that are being installed.
I have two questions. And my questions are, A, what is the current projected date for installation
on all of the buses in our system, some approximately 1,200 buses, of these shields? And then B,
what would that date be if we were able to use our own machine shop fully to fabricate these
shields as opposed to having them fabricated by outside third parties?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. This is Paul Ballard, General Manger CEO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, so currently we have completed 104 of the articulated buses and 69 of
the 44 Gillig buses. We're currently averaging about 20 doors installed a day. We continue to cut
the polycarbonate through the rest of this week. We have enough hardware to install another 150
buses. At this rate installs, we'll catch up to fabrication shortly and we'll be looking for more
materials. But we're doing about 20 per day.

We have, of course, 1,000 buses in the fleet. The new buses at the factory, totaling 80 with the
option, will come in with them already installed. So that will help us when they come in this fall.
So we're doing about 20 per day. And so I'd have to do some math to give you the date when that
would be completed.
DOUG TISDALE: The second part of my question was, is that fabrication being done solely
internally by us? Is it being done outsourced? And is there a difference if we were to do all of that
fabrication in-house?
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Ballard, this is Fred Worthen, AGM with Bus Operations. May I answer
that call?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
FRED WORTHEN: So I apologize. I hit the wrong button and got disconnected just as you were
posing your questions, Director Tisdale.
Right now, all of our operations are done internally, all of the production is done internally. And
the fabrication component is very difficult for us to outsource. The cutting of polycarbonate shields
is only a single piece of what we have to produce. We also have to produce stanchions that hold
the polycarbonate shields in place. We have to develop hinges, latches, kits, things like that for our
installation crews. And some of it is very technical and varies based upon the fleet itself.
So for example, one of the three stanchions that we produce, it takes two people to bend it and
fabricate it where it will fit on our fleet. We also have other things that have to be done. We have
to basically protect and powder coat, or not powder coat, but paint the stanchions and things like
this.
So it's not just the polycarbonate that is at issue. It's all of the components that have to be
developed. And the polycarbonate is actually, we've gotten pretty good at producing that. It's all
the hardware that we have to produce that's taking a lot of the fabrication time right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Is there then a difference-- if I may, permission, Madam Chair, follow up-- is
there a difference if we were to go to an outsource? Because I understand you to say now that we're
actually doing all of this in-house. If we were to outsource, would that change the rate at which we
are able to retrofit the buses and provide this additional protection?
FRED WORTHEN: In my opinion, sir, no. Because we do not have anybody underneath of
contract that could do this type of work. We would have to go out for at least competitive quotes
to be able to do this. We would have to award a contract, go through the legal components of
having a contract awarded. By the time we do all that, I believe that we would be completely done
with our installation.
Right now, we will not be installing on all 1,100 of our buses. We have 54 or 55 Gilligs that are
coming in starting next month that will come with barriers installed. And then we have another

order of 40-something buses coming in also. So we'll only be doing about 1,000. Right now we're
on track to be able to have the installations completed somewhere in late September or early
October.
Right now our experience is strictly based upon the articulated barriers and the Gilligs. The 30
foots shouldn't be a problem for us. The FFs are a little more problematic because of the way our
entry works. We have to make sure that we're not obstructing the ADA accessibility and things
like that.
So we're still working on a mockup on the MCIs or the FFs, as most people refer to them as.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the response. I appreciate that, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. My question was related to the comment about a outside
consultant has been brought in to help with the collective bargaining agreement negotiations. And
if that was correct, what is the name of that company?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. Paul Ballard. We have a firm called John Dash and
Associates that have been under retainer to us for some time. And when we actually go into
negotiations, they're available to come to the table, if necessary and if we request them. It's a
company that's been doing these types of negotiations for well over 50 years and they're very
knowledgeable. And they're the ones that we go to and we ask for their advice when we come to
any challenging issues.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that is the company-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have a follow up, yes. So that is a company that have used them in the
past?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. John Dash and Associates.
NATALIE MENTEN: And could you tell me, is that D as in David, A-S-H-E-N?
PAUL BALLARD: No, it's just Dash, D-A-S-H.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's my only question.
PAUL BALLARD: You're welcome.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Any other questions from any other Board
member?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a question. This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to clarify with Fred. I don't know if I heard you correctly or if I
didn't hear it at all. How much time did you expect it would take for us to be able to fit all of our
services with plexiglass?
FRED WORTHEN: About 6,000 manpower hours total.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So about 12 weeks, two months?
FRED WORTHEN: Well, production is basically based upon what we have available for
manpower and resources. I'm not dedicating a full staff to doing this full time. We have a crew
that is working on this. But we have to maintain our repairs also. We have had several hard hits
we've had frame damage just in the past couple of weeks from rear end collisions. We have to
repair buses like that, which is significant amount of resources. We have all the general things that
occur, too, with accidents. We have to maintain our fleet so that we can maintain pull out.
So we're trying to find a balance between production and actually maintaining the existing fleet as
well. We've dedicated as much of our resources as we believe we can to the barrier production
process. We've been working a lot of overtime. Our guys have been staying late, doing 10 and 12
hour days. They've been working weekends. We've been going as full fledged as we can on this
with maintaining the balance between production and keeping our existing fleet on the road.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So with that, with all of that in mind and with those considerations, what
date would you expect with the resources that you have, the manpower that you have, the other
priorities that you have, to realistically be able to-FRED WORTHEN: As I stated earlier, I believe we'll complete the installation late September,
early October.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So thank you. I appreciate you. I appreciate you answering that question
for me.
That concerns me. Because we're talking about July 1st until October. And I think we've heard
from a number of operators, and I've raised this issue a number of times around the rear door
boarding, and the hazard pay as well. So I appreciate folks calling in.
It's kind of concerning for me to hear our operators saying, hey, RTD, can you make sure that we
have the proper protections in place? We aren't being compensated with hazard pay. You know,
the social distancing is a maybe on some of our services. And we recently heard from the DPA
chief that there were concerns about our inspection within Platte.

And so it just feels like we [AUDIO OUT] admit that we might not be able to deal with the how
heavy that COVID has been and the pandemic has been for many of us. And I wonder if we revert
back to the rear door boarding to make sure that our operators feel like, feel that they have the
safety precautions in place to be able to safely operate our services and aren't feeling as though
they need to choose between their lives and their livelihood.
And that's devastating for me to hear operators call over and over and over, send us emails over
and over and over, and we're still doing the same thing. And so I'm just curious of that, if we are
making any additional considerations considering October is quite a ways away.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Not at this time. We have talked with many, many operators. And the fact is
that many operators don't even want the barrier. And so we're actually having to order operators
to actually use them. Some of them been propping them open. And so it's not such a uniform
position. What you find is our operators take many different points of view, and we try to work
with all of them to do what's best for following agency guidelines and all of the other safety
procedures that we've been implementing. So it's not a cut and dried issue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So that's helpful, Mr. Ballard. I guess my question is how would we
know the operators who are saying no that they aren't interested in these? Because I don't know
about other Directors, but the emails that I get in my inbox, on social media, Twitter, Facebook,
phone calls, text messages, are all operators saying, when are you guys going to prioritize us
putting this plexiglass in place for our safety's sake?
PAUL BALLARD: I understand. I don't know how you would get all the information from the
individuals. I know that-SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, how are you getting it?
PAUL BALLARD: We are talking to operators and we get various points of view. I personally
have had a number of operators thank me for going back to front door operation because it's much
safer for them. They were very uncomfortable with having the back door boarding. They feel like
they didn't always know who was on the bus.
And so the operators I've spoken to have actually thanked us for going back to the front door
boarding, because the operators I've spoken to say it's much safer. So the opinions are really all
over the place.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I hear that. It would be helpful for me as a Director to be able to balance out
what is actually making it to my inbox, and it's around the safety glass, the plexiglass serving as a
safety mechanism for many of our operators. So that's what I hear on the communication channels
that I use to connect with my constituents and with operators.
And so I'm curious as to what channels you are using to get a different message. Because it would
be nice to balance those two.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Mr. Ford, go ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: I'd just like to offer, I have been embarking on garage visits recently and
dealing directly with the employees and hearing what their concerns. And as Mr. Ballard pointed
out, there is a mixed bag of folks. Some of them don't want them, and we're having to actually
address some of the issues with the drivers propping the barriers open. I have been diligent in
hearing their concerns and at the garages visits that I've had thus far, I have not heard those
concerns being expressed.
We're doing all the things that we can. We're also providing them face shields as well, and we're
using other alternatives that they might feel more comfortable with. We'll continue to try to
expedite the process for putting the barriers in. But as it's been pointed out, we are getting a mixed
bag. And I've had over three visits thus far in about three sessions each. And that particular issue
has not come up. But I will concede that hazardous pay has. But that particular issue about the
barriers has not come up in my sessions thus far.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: About concerns--.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I make a comment? This is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I know the view and I know that the operators might have
a variety of feelings. The information that I get has basically been wanting the plexiglass or the
barriers. And so that's all I've seen. But I hear from our staff that it's a variety of issues.
What concerns me is that it's going to be the end of September, the beginning of October before
it's fully completed. And for those folks that are concerned with their safety, that's a long time to
feel that they're being exposed to COVID. And I was just wondering if there is some way to speed
up the process. One of the concerns that Fred Worthen said to us is that he'd have to go out on the
street and it would take a long time to get a contract.
And I'm wondering, we have single source ability. And there is a memo or policy in support of it.
And I'm wondering if an emergency situation might warrant a single source so that we can just do
this thing quickly. Because it feels like it's impossible to make it faster. And that doesn't feel real
to me. There's a sense of impossibility. But my sense is that there must be some way around that.
And I'm just wondering if that would be a possibility.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

BOB BROOM: I have A question for Mr. Ballard. Are we just talking about the buses that RTD
operates, or are we talking about all the buses, including the ones by contract?
PAUL BALLARD: It includes all of the buses, which is close to 1,100. So we're talking about the
entire fleet for the contractors as well as the ones that our employees operate.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you very much.
PAUL BALLARD: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska.
JUDY LUBOW: Can somebody answer my question? Can someone answer my question about
whether we can move forward with maybe a single source to get this thing done quicker?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, our labor contract does not permit us to do that. And we've not had any
relief from the union in that respect. It's their right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair-JUDY LUBOW: It seems like once again we're in an emergency and we can't, we have no wiggle
room. I find it very frustrating, frankly. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is frustrating. Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Ballard, Mr. Ford, I'm wondering, and this
may be like completely ridiculous because of logistics and so forth, but for the moment, the drivers
who are uncomfortable with the front door, can they just let them come on the back door, or the
drivers that are uncomfortable without the plexiglass, give those drivers the plexiglass? Do you
see where I'm headed here?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yep.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, you know, those are wonderful thoughts. And I wish that we
could do that. No, and I'm being very sincere. Because it makes perfectly good common sense to
try to do that. But our ability to match buses with operators on a daily basis and an hourly basis, it
would really be an impossible task for us to try to do that. I mean, I wish we could.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, if the majority of-- Madam, as a follow up

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. It
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Occurred to me, Mr. Ballard, when you made the comment that many of
the drivers you've spoken with directly, as well as the drivers Mr. Ford had spoken with directly,
don't want the back door boarding They don't feel that that's safe. It's my understanding also that
the plexiglass really doesn't prevent the spread of the virus. It's the mask wearing. However, it does
provide security of the driver in terms of a barrier between the passengers and that sort of thing,
which we, this Board, have heard in the past, well before, maybe a couple of years ago actually.
So if there-- let's say 75% of the drivers don't [AUDIO OUT] this plexiglass and they're not real
comfortable with it, they don't want the back door boarding, I mean, could we think about grouping
them, batching them, like a batch system? And then there'll be some that may-- you know, a Venn
diagram. Some get it, some don't. But kind of trying to get something that makes people who feel
unsafe driving safe before it is installed in a ubiquitous manner on all of our buses.
That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I just want to clarify, because I'm hearing
multiple stories here. First, I hear that we are unable to provide this shield for the drivers, the
polycarbonate shields, because we are not able to have them done outside because of our contract
with the union. But Director Lewis tells us that the union workers are complaining about the fact
that they don't have the shields. So that seems to me to be a big catch-22 circle that we're going
around in.
And then I hear the same thing that Director Lewis is telling us that people are unhappy, that they
want rear door boarding. And Mr. Ford is telling us that he talks to drivers and he doesn't hear that,
that they feel that rear door boarding is as unsafe as people coming in the front door.
So we are just going around in a couple of big circles here. Am I the only person that hears that?
Nobody wants to answer that. OK, I guess that was a rhetorical question. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair? This is Paul Ballard. I can address this very briefly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.

PAUL BALLARD: We have a large workforce. And members of the workforce, everyone has
their own point of view. And you hear all different points of view. And we try to follow the best
management practices that we know. We listen to our employees. But we still make the right
decision in the end. And I will tell you that the practices that we are currently employing, I believe
represent what the majority of the employees want.
And you know, we're not always perfect, but we have a staff that that's keeping its ears open and
its eyes opened, and we're trying to do what's best for the majority. We're trying to continue to
operate a system that serves our customers the best way that we can. We have to have a standard
process because our customers would get confused if we did different things on different vehicles
or different modes.
So no, Director Williams, I would characterize your summary as being very accurate, because it
is. Because there are many, many different attitudes approaches and beliefs about this. But we
continue to follow what the industry is doing in. General and we are following what we believe is
the safest routes for our customers and our employees.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Hope that helps.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So Madam Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So I'm going to go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, you've asked several questions. Is this a different
one?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Actually, I got cut off and you let Director Lubow speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So I just had a question, and I asked it-- it wasn't answered-- about
the Platte Division. So I know that there were some concerns around the temperature checks and
the scanners. And I just wanted to know if we can get an update on that as a Board, in terms of the
improvements there, kind of where we are.
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Mr. Meader.

MIKE MEADER: Sure. I think what Director Lewis is speaking about is the checks by the Denver
Department of Public Health to the Platte Division. And they checked on a number of things, face
mask usage, social distancing, our signage, our communication, those kinds of things.
And for the most part, it was a very positive report. The one item that they talked about was whether
or not we had a process to screen employees, and that's for temperatures and symptoms. The public
health order said that businesses can do it one of two ways, set up on-site temperature checks, so
sites that someone would check every time someone comes in the building, or you can have
employees self-screen.
So the nature of our business, with operators relieving in the field and some of those kinds of
schedules make it difficult for us to do it at the worksite. So what we have is a policy that states
that employee should self-screen, every day check for symptoms. If they're feverish, if they're not
feeling well, report those symptoms.
So we've been doing that since March. We've formalized that policy. I've spoken with the public
health department on a number of occasions. And just recently, after some of the meetings I had,
received an email from them stating that we were in compliance with the public health order based
upon the policies that we have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So-- I'm sorry, I was going to-- if I might. So if they have a fever,
like if they're taking their temperature and they feel feverish or sick, then it's don't come into work.
Correct?
MIKE MEADER: Correct. What our policy states is that all employees, prior to coming into the
workplace, are required to assess their physical health for the presence of the following symptoms.
These are the symptoms that the CDC and public health identifies as symptoms of the COVID
virus. And they keep adding to them every few weeks as we continue to learn more about the virus.
There's about 10 or 11. One of them is a fever.
The issue that kind of presents itself with this virus is that up to 40% to 45% of people are
asymptomatic with this virus. So the fever may not be present. Some of the other symptoms may.
So that's why we ask them to evaluate their health on all of the symptoms. If they have no
symptoms, they can come into work. There's no need for us to log those. If they do have symptoms,
the policy states that they should first stay home, don't come into the workplace, contact their
supervisor or manager, advise them of those symptoms.
And then we have a process whereby we ask additional questions to capture the data that the public
health departments want us to capture. And then we can track those employees, make sure they're
out of the workplace, and they get well. And if for some reason they get tested, we track those
results as well, for the public health and contact tracing to ensure no other employees were infected.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Go ahead, Director Lewis. I'm sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, it's all good.

So two questions about the reporting. The reporting, you said it's self reporting. So how are we
planning for folks who come in to work, because they might not have vacation time or sick time
or whatever reason, that may have symptoms and they don't report it through the proper channels.
MIKE MEADER: Well, that's the process. They're supposed to report. And we've had great
success with that. We've had over the course of this virus, since February, late February, about 700
people who have taken advantage of the opportunity to stay out with pay for 14 days and quarantine
themselves or to take care of other family members, all of those kinds of things that are allowed
based upon the pandemic.
So we've had great compliance with this participation and we've kept people pretty safe.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: You're welcome.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I guess the last question-- just a follow-up Mr. Ford, or maybe it was
Mr. Ballard who said that it was that we couldn't do the sole source because of the collective
bargaining agreement, or maybe the union. I can't remember which one. And so I wondered if the
union were to agree to that, then we could move forward, particularly considering that, as Director
Williams has pointed out, that I've heard from a lot of operators and they also participated in public
comment. And so I'm curious as to what the steps might be for us to have a conversation about
protecting our workers.
MICHAEL FORD: We continue to work-- this is Michael Ford, COO. We continue to work with
the ATU. This is their work. And if we were to bring in other resources, we would have to work
out an agreement with them. We have upped our opportunities with them. As Fred mentioned, we
have folks working well beyond their shifts, working overtime to try to expedite the process, the
activity on getting the barriers up.
But if we were to bring in any additional resources, they would have to concur with that. So we've
been working, obviously, to try to expedite our process. But our current collective bargaining
agreement doesn't afford us that opportunity unless they're supportive of that arrangement.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Does that conclude your questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep, that's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Anybody else before I close this piece?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. This is Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
So I just want to confirm, you know, we saw reported newspapers that RTD was in violation by
not dealing with the temperature sensing. So apparently that's not accurate, to summarize. Is that
correct, Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please. Yes.
MIKE MEADER: That's correct. There was, in my conversations with public health, there was a
misinterpretation. One of the things you have to understand, these things change, it seems like, on
a weekly basis. There's a lot of people trying to do the right thing. And obviously, with any time
you have these changes, making sure everyone understands it and is trained and it's interpreted
correctly happens.
So the conversations with the health department were that this was a misinterpretation of the latest
public health order. And we're working together with them very closely, their inspectors, their
teams, to make sure that everyone's aligned in this endeavor.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. I appreciate that.
MIKE MEADER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: One additional-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: I have one more comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: May I ask who that is?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Catlin.
JUDY LUBOW: But I'm not-PEGGY CATLIN: No, no-JUDY LUBOW: I'm not finished.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lubow's not finished.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, there were a whole bunch of comments from the public.
One of the things that they raised was an issue that the GM renewed the Allied contract. And I just
was wondering if Mr. Ballard could comment on that. I don't know what that meant.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: I'm not the General Manager that renewed the contract, so I'll ask our General
Counsel to address the issue, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair.
So the contract, as I understand it, was renewed pursuant to the delegation of the Board's authority
to the General Manager for routine purchases of services.
JUDY LUBOW: But isn't there a maximum amount of money that that is for, that delegation?
MELANIE SNYDER: You know, not for that particular delegation, there isn't.
JUDY LUBOW: What is the distinction? I thought there was a maximum.
MELANIE SNYDER: There is a maximum. I'm just trying to find the actual definition. But there
is-- it does specifically say that there's no limit.
JUDY LUBOW: Hmm.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, sure we'd be happy to follow up with a written summary on
that particular aspect of the bylaws, if that would please the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would appreciate that.
JUDY LUBOW: That would be fine. And
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think the Board would appreciate that as well. Director Lubow,
would that be OK with you?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, that's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lubow, this is Director Lewis. I can send it to you, because I've had
these concerns. But it might be worth addressing as a Board how to change that. Because there are
contracts that are much above the number that will go before-- that won't go before
[INTERPOSING VOICES].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, if I might. If I might, please.
Are your questions concluded, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, Director Catlin.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, pardon me. This is Melanie Snyder. I did find the delegation,
if you want that number.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So it's resolution number 19 from 2007. It's a delegation of authority. And
the specific language authorizes and delegates to the General Manager the authority and
responsibility to approve and execute routine annual procurements, regardless of amount, for
operational goods and services.
JUDY LUBOW: I see.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair.
This is going back to the issue with the collective bargaining agreement and the prohibition about
having outside workers assist in the fabrication of these plexiglass shields. There were a number
of ATU representatives who made comment tonight. And I would just ask, if they're listening now,
that they may consider, for the safety of their operators, that they might maybe come back to the
discussion table with our management and see if that is something that we could explore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Great. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's a great idea. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Director Guissinger. Yeah.
Just a couple of quick comments on what's been said. I totally agree with that point is let's pursue
it and see if there are other ways to get outside contractors to help with the polycarbonate areas.
And this may be a question for Ms. Snyder. When is the Allied Security contract up again? When
does it expire?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, we don't have that contract here with us, but we'll provide that
information to the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I would like to look at that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. Just quickly, I agree with so many others. There were a lot of points
that were raised tonight. Can you give us an update on masks? I know that they're required. They
required by the governor and by us and everyone. Are drivers authorized to tell people they can't
get on? What exactly, what are we doing to enforce?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
I have a complete update on all of our personal protection equipment. It's several pages. I'd be
happy to make that available to the Board. And you'll see in every single category exactly how
many we have, how many we have ordered. And I'll make that available to the Board, if that's
acceptable.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that include our policy, Mr. Ballard in terms of what we're telling the
divers to say and if we're giving them masks to hand out and all of those sorts of things?
PAUL BALLARD: No, ma'am. This is an inventory of our PPE. I've misunderstood you. I thought
that's what you were asking for. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I'm basically asking what-- somebody, I heard that one of the drivers
was saying that he's not allowed to pass people by, or not let them get on. What are we asking our
divers to do? And again, I don't want to put them at any risk for enforcement, but I'm just trying to
figure out where we are on our policy.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

MICHAEL FORD: Yes. We have the audible announcements that are on. And they ask the
passenger to wear a mask. We also are having masks on the vehicle. So we would offer them a
mask if they're not wearing one. We do not try to engage them or force anything. But by having
those additional materials on the bus, we're able to at least offer the opportunity.
I think when confronted or when talked to or at least communicated with, people who are more
inclined to put the mask on. That's what we're finding. But again, we're not in a situation where
we're trying to confront the operator. ks But we have had a supply of mass that we've been able to
have on our buses to pass out. And that's what we're doing right now, along with the audible
announcements.
And we're trying to manage it as best we can. Where we're having difficulties, we can rely, or try
to rely on law enforcement to help. In extenuating circumstances or areas that we're having
problems in, we will look to deploy them appropriately to be of help and support there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. I'd just like to make the observation. I rode the mall shuttle a couple times
yesterday. And in both cases, about a third of the passengers didn't have masks on. And of course,
people get on those buses in the middle and in the back and so forth. And so I don't know how you
tell them they should have a mask on. I mean, there's some signs up. But that's about it. Is there
any effort to maybe put some people on those buses for a while to call people's attention to the fact
that they're supposed to have masks on?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. This Michael Ford, COO. We can explore that opportunity. It is a resource
issue. We do have supervisors in the field that can check on our various routes to help communicate
that to our passengers. I couldn't assure how frequent or how much they could do each and every
day. But in particularly the mall, I think there are some efforts we can make to help reinstitute
some awareness of that issue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Broom, does that answer your question?
BOB BROOM: Yes. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other questions from Board members? Yes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just wondering. We have an Accountability Committee that had
appointees from the governor, and the governor's orders about masks specifically reference transit.
Perhaps we could ask the Accountability Committee, that was appointed by the governor, to give
us some assistance in how we mandate masks on transit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I heard someone else.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi. It was Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So regarding the mask [AUDIO OUT], I did have a driver tell me, we are
prohibiting, they're requiring, actually saying, you're required to wear a mask and to try to enforce
it. So I know it is a difficult situation and we run risk of confrontations, but can we look and see if
that can be calibrated a little bit to allow a little bit more assertive posture on that? That would be
one question.
And [BUZZING] request, this information been so helpful, I wonder if we couldn't have an update
weekly about the number of enclosures, percentage of our fleet that's currently deployed that's
outfitted. I believe, from comments, pretty universally true that the Board is concerned about this
and wants to hear more. So that was the thought there. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Mr. Ford
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. We will look to see what we can do.
I also want to call to the Board's attention that there are people that have respiratory issues. Some
people are not able to wear masks. So we have to strike a balance on some of these issues as well,
because there are ADA issues out there that have been brought to our attention and some people
are just not equipped.
So I think in this process, we have to take those factors into account or consideration as well. So I
just would point that out. But I think there are other things that we can continue to look at to see if
we can improve the opportunities of getting people to wear masks and utilizing the resources that
we have. But I did want to bring that point up. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I did hear someone else.
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Mr. Worthen.

FRED WORTHEN: So I do want to clarify. First, the governor's order is not an absolute everyone
must wear a mask. There are exceptions. And in particular, individuals that have respiratory
problems or have other disabilities are exempt from wearing a mask.
The ADA regulations are very specific on when we can and cannot provide service. And the only
way we can really deny service is to make an individualized assessment based upon reasonable
judgment that relies on current medical knowledge or on the best possible available objective
evidence. We have not trained our operators to be able to do those type of assessments. So if we
were to enforce this, we would have issues with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
So this isn't a simple issue for us. This is a very in-depth problem for us. And we have to balance
the governor's orders with also not violating ADA regulations as we deal with this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Any other questions or comments? OK. Hearing
none, I have to say, this has been an incredible robust discussion. And I think that for me, listening
to everybody speak, you know what, we are just in a time of such tremendous transition, and this
virus is changing as we speak. And I think people are really concerned for their health and the
health of their families and the community. And I think we're going to have to keep readjusting as
we move forward. That's the one continuum that I do see for sure. I so appreciate all of the
comments. And I think we have a lot of work to do.
I just want to reiterate what another Board member said is that this agency, this staff, these bus
drivers, these, everybody, this Board of Directors, all 15 of them, we truly care about our
community and the safety of our drivers and our patrons and our families and our community. And
I think we're going to be working together to come up with those solutions.
I think we have some great questions. I think there's a lot of information we need to receive. And
I think things are changing, which has been true this entire year. But I think that this was a really
good dialogue, and I'd like to thank you all for it.
We do have a public hearing this evening on the amendment of the 2020 adopted budget. But
we've been going now for quite some time. So what I'd like to call for is a 10-minute break so that
everybody can go and get coffee or whatever and then come back. OK? So I will see you guys in
10 minutes, or I'll hear you guys. Thank you.
Good evening. I'd like to call to order a public hearing on the amendment to the 2020 adopted
budget. It is Tuesday, July 21, 2020, and it is 8:01 PM.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to order the public hearing on the Regional
Transportation District's amendment to be adopted budget for the year 2020. In accordance with
both RTD's requirements and the local government statutes, notice with both RTD's requirement
and local government statute notice-- I'm sorry, I did that twice-- public hearing was duly posted
in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. Persons who have not already
indicated a desire to speak get this hearing should register right now by pressing star 3.

This public hearing will be conducted under the rules and regulations for public hearings adopted
by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District, and a copy of those rules will
be part of the record of this hearing. The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be
limited to the subject of the public hearing and the presentations of the testimony should be no
longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be presented to Barbara McManus, Executive
Manager, by email. And you can send it to board@rtd-denver.com.
Each Board member was presented with an electronic copy of the amendment to the 2020 adopted
budget. To obtain a copy of the budget, please contact the Board office via phone at 303-299-2302,
or by email at board.office@rtd-denver.com.
If you want to speak to the Board on the 2020 amended budget, please press star 3.
OK. Let's see. I see Mr. Sean Hayes. And Mr. Hayes, if this is not pertaining to the 2020 budget, I
would ask that you keep your comments to that only. You're on.
SEAN HAYES: My name is Sean Hayes, live at 1432 Columbine Street, Denver.
I spoke earlier regarding previous Board meetings I've sat on. I've made my budgetary wishes clear
and I'll discuss those further down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is about the budget of 2020, sir. Is that what your comments
are pertaining to?
SEAN HAYES: They have to do with that, yes. But I'd also like to [AUDIO OUT] the
environments I've noticed at Board meetings-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I'm sorry. This is just the 2020 budget public hearing. I'm
sorry.
OK. I have Carly Wolken. And Ms. Wolken, I would just say to you, if you have comments
regarding the amended 2020 budget, I'll let you speak currently. You're on.
CARLY WOLKEN: All right. Thank you. Things that I would like to see on the budget, especially
regarding all the drivers that called in, is hazard pay for RTD employees who are going to work in
this pandemic and are risking their lives. To me, it's really unacceptable that they don't have hazard
pay yet. And yet, Allied Security got $40 million.
And I also noticed during the meeting, if I heard correctly, that there is no limit as to the funds that
can be used to procure operating expenses. When it was kind of asked about, what did that, that
RTD was renewing the contract with Allied. I tried to listen-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ma'am, that is not part of the budget. That's not the conversation
we're having on the amended budget this evening. But thank you.
OK. Do I have a motion for the 2020 amendment to the 2020 adopted budget? Do I have a motion?

BOB BROOM: I move approval.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any discussion on this motion?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, this is Director Whitmore. Do we need to close the public
hearing first?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, we do. Thank you so much. Hearing no other public
comment, I'm closing the public hearing. And I am now moving on to, I heard Director Broom as
the movement and Director Williams as the second. Is there any discussion on the motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to express some concern about the public hearing. I know in the
past we haven't had folks call in. And so it was pretty disheartening to not hear what the comments
were from these individuals, as we have historically had folks engaged in our budget. And I was
really excited to hear what folks had to say. And so just really discouraged that we would
disconnect the line from our constituents who were engaged.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Is there any other discussion?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is your Director Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did [AUDIO OUT] finish?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I appreciate your leadership.
And I just wanted to say that there are other folks who are reaching out to me saying that they were
in the queue for public comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I see no one in the queue, Director Lewis. There's no one in the
queue. So sorry. But I do not see it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So Ian said that he was in the queue. So I just wanted to make you aware of
that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I don't see Ian in the queue. But all right. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I just wanted to say for the record, and CFO McKillop can probably
clarify this, but this is really part of our process to get the budget into the works and for adoption.
But we do have other opportunities throughout the year to make minor adjustments. And we've
had to do so in the past with regard to different revenues that have come in and other expenditures.
So there could be opportunities between now and December to make adjustments to the budget.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments from Board members? Hearing
none, I will now call on the Directors in turn, starting with Director Broom.
Director Broom, do you have any comments?
BOB BROOM: No comments or questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you. I already [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Just thanks to all involved in adjustments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So I did just get a follow up that Ian is now in the queue, or that
he was in the queue and he was accepted, just for your FYI. No comments otherwise.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow. No
JUDY LUBOW: Comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Just a comment that I will be a no vote. But that's longstanding. Reasons
for certificates of participation, I believe certain areas, still, expenditures are too high. So I'll be a
no vote, which is not uncommon for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No comments or questions from me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. No comments or questions at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions or comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. My only comment, I have no constituents in the queue. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't have any constituents in the queue right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
I do have two other community members in the queue that I will allow to speak. So I'm going to
call on Xochitl Gaytan.
XOCHITL GAYTAN: Yes. Hi, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
XOCHITL GAYTAN: Yes. Hi, my name is Xochitl Gaytan. Xochitl is a Mexican indigenous
name. And I am from Mexico and I'm a naturalized citizen. I'm the co-chair of the Colorado Latino
Forum. I'm bilingual Spanish speaking, indigenous Latina. And on the board, we have 11 board
members that are either elected leaders in the metropolitan area or have ran campaigns, and highly,
highly intelligent political leaders throughout the metropolitan area.
I say this because it's important to make everyone aware on the RTD Board that we have been
listening to this call. And we will continue to listen and we will continue to engage. And so we

would like to continue to participate. As a matter of fact, we can find other Latino constituents of
yours to participate in any committees that are needing Latino engagement and participation.
I'd like to also add that if Director Lewis is going to be allowed to present the new resolution, that
we are in complete support of it. And I want to reiterate what my co-chair, Ian Tafoya, stated
before in regards to the support of the new resolution. It allots funding in the amount of $30 million
towards outreach and supports to the riders, all riders throughout the metropolitan area in the form
of mental, behavioral, and social supports.
And so we ask that you support this resolution, if you're allowed for it to be on the floor and to be
discussed and to be voted on. It is very important for us that especially our Latino community be
kept safe, as we are a large majority, a large percentage of riders on RTD. And you know, we
continue to be in disenfranchised communities throughout Denver.
So I'd want to remind you, once again, as we're trying to reach out and our attempts to contact the
Chair, Rivera-Malpiede, that we seek to understand why this happened to Mr. Raverro, that he
must be paid and compensated for his injuries, that the Allied contract must be canceled, and you
all consider, highly consider protecting the workers, especially your drivers.
And to come up with this excuses as to why you can't come up with this plexiglass solution sooner
than October is highly inconsiderate of you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Xochitl, thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
XOCHITL GAYTAN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, listen, Xochitl. I'd like to thank you. And as a Latina from this
community who's grown up and has worked as an advocate for over 45 years, I know exactly what
you're talking about. As a transit dependent single mom, I know what you're talking about. And I
would just like to say for the record that there are several members of this Board who have
committed to working with Director Lewis on this agenda item of this resolution. We are all
committed to making sure that our community is being served.
I would just ask Director Lewis to contact us so that we can work with her, so that we can make
sure we can work on this together. So it's not that it's not being addressed. It is just not currently
ready to be put out onto the floor. So thank you.
Ian Tafoya.
IAN TAFOYA: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you.
IAN TAFOYA: Hi, Angie. It's Ian again.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Ian.
IAN TAFOYA: I just want to say, we just want to-- you heard what Xochitl had to say. And I'm
here to say to all the Board members that we are open to talking with any of you about the concerns
that we're hearing from people in the community. We're open to making sure you have resources
so that you can be real avenues of community input to be able to shape this large agency.
In the short term, it's like a Green New Deal. We have to invest in the safety of these workers.
Without the workers, you have no system. We saw what happened with the budget cuts even before
COVID happened. And we don't know when the next wave will come or the next wave or the next
disease or the next person who might want to assault a driver. This just makes so much sense to
me to support that.
Obviously, paying Ferrraro and Allied is important. In the short term, we need you guys to get it
together. But in the long term, the real long term, the climate depends on this. This is a climate
crisis and transit plays such a pivotal role. So we want you to know that. We've talked about this.
RTD is a regular topic with CLF. And we're here to work-- work to be better. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks. And you know what, Ian? We are committed to climate
environment. In fact, we have the largest electric vehicle in all of the transit agencies. But thank
you for your call.
I don't have anyone else in queue. So now I would like to call for the vote. So proceeding in order.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: N-O.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Y-E-S.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair, yes. We have 14 yeses, one no, with it being Director
Menten. Thank you.
There is one item on the unanimous consent agenda this evening. And it is the N Line bus and rail
service change final. If anyone has a change to, or questions on this item, please feel free to advise
the Chair at this time, and we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent
agenda for consideration under the recommended action.
Hearing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Was that Whitmore? I had Buzek. Who was the-TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore and Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. That's what I thought. Any discussion?
OK. I'd like to move to a vote on that.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, yes. That's a unanimous vote.
We have four recommended actions tonight listed as item 13, actions C through F in your agenda.
The first one is the ad hoc committee Code of Conduct final report and revised Code of Conduct.
Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
JUDY LUBOW: Second, Director Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Heard Director Lubow. Sorry. Is there any discussion
on the motion? Hearing none, I now want to call on the Board in turn, starting with Director Broom,
on the vote.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No. Still concerns about First Amendment rights with our ad hoc policy on
this committee of Code of Conduct. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, yes. So that's 14 yeses, one nay, with Director
Menten in the negative.
All right. The next one is the approval of the budget action for the Accountability Committee. Do
we have a motion?
JUDY LUBOW: So moved, Lubow.

SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any further discussion on the motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair? Madam Chair, this is Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I'm going to see how this motion floats. But I would like to amend
the dollar amount to $100,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Then I'm going to go ahead and call for the vote and
then go to your amendment. Let me just make sure-BARBARA MCMANUS: Madam Chair, I think you need a second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do it reverse, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, you do the amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Here we go. So it is-BOB BROOM: Need a second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry.
BOB BROOM: You would need a second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I know.
NATALIE MENTEN: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So there is an amendment on the floor to change the budget for
the action for the Accountability Committee from $200,000 to $100,000. And I'm hearing Director
Menten. And then I need a second.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second, Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any discussion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we hear from Director Menten?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I believe $100,000 should accomplish what this committee needs to
do within the span of time that's been set for them to accomplish certain tasks. If needed, they
could come back. But right now I believe $200,000 is excessive. And considering the budget
scenario, they should be able to tighten the belt and work within $100,000, and again, if needed,
can come back and state the purpose for the additional monies they might need.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other discussion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to suggest as part of this amendment that we count the Board staff
time, or any employees of RTD's time, as part of the funding. That might bring us back closer to
the $200,000 number.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any other comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let me go with Director Catlin first. Go ahead, First Vice
Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. When we first discussed this Accountability Committee, I had some
concerns about the budget and made the comment that I did not want it to be a blank check and
that there had to be pretty rigid cost controls on expenditures. And I still maintain that and would
say that just because we have a budget of $200,000 does not mean that that needs to be expended.
So I still stand by that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And then I heard someone else.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a reminder that we've tasked the proposal. This was part of the
proposal. So this is just defining where the money is coming in and appropriating, but we've
already approved this. It's not-- what this committee is looking at and what you're authorized to
look at in terms of documents, talking to people, finances, all of those things. This is not an overly

generous budget. And we did set it up so that once we hit that number, the parties would work in
good faith to find other funding.
So I would encourage everybody and you to please support the $200,000 in the original
amendment, the original proposal and vote down on the amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Any other comments?
All right. So I have an amendment on the floor to move the approval of the budget action to the
Accountability Committee from $200,000 to $100,000. And I don't know, Director Williams and
Director Menten, if you want in there to include time as part of the funding that our staff is
providing. Do you want that part of your amendment?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten. I'm going to speak to when we had this last conversation,
I think it was last week, I think they were counting staff time into the $200,000.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't think so.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten? Director Menten, this is Barbara McManus. Can you
hear me?
NATALIE MENTEN: I can.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So I spoke to this at the previous meeting in the committee. So we
are tracking what the staff time is, but we are not getting reimbursed out of that $200,000. We just
felt that moving forward with the agency having to have outside committees come in, whether it's
mandated by the governor or the legislature, in the past we haven't tracked.
We have not tracked the time that it took for the staff to do the audit through the state that we're
still in the midst of. And we thought it was prudent that we would do that so that this should come
up in the future we would know what type of staff time we were looking at and what budget hit
that would be to the agency. But that is not part of the $200,000. I just wanted to clarify. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. So we have an amendment on the floor from
Director Menten, seconded by Director Folska, Alaska to move the funds the accountability
committee from $200,000 to $100,000. So I'm going to go ahead and do the vote on that.
Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Not without the to the amendment, no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, was that yes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sounded like a no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, it was a no? OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, because I feel it would violate actual MOU.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a no. So that is 13 no's and 2 yeses. And the yeses are
Director Menten and Director Folska.
So we'll go back and do the original amendment, which is to fund the Accountability Committee
in the amount of $200,000.
Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And chair, yes. So it passes 13 yeses, 2 no's, being Menten and
Director Folska.
Now to item E, COVID Budget Response Principles. Do I have a motion?
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I have Director Lubow as the movant and Director Cook as the
second. Is that correct?
SHELLEY COOK: It was Director Guissinger as a second, I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: That's right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any discussion on this motion?
OK. Hearing none, I'll call for the vote. And this time we'll go in alphabetical order. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair, Yes. That vote passes with 13 yeses and 2 no's,
Director Menten and Director Mihalik.
OK. And now, last action item for our agenda is the General Manager's 2020 and 2021 core and
task goals. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved, Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Who was the movant?
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any discussion? All right. Hearing none, I'll
call for the vote. I'm going to go the other way, Director Williams. You're first.
KATE WILLIAMS: I vote yes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And myself, yes. So the motion passes with 13 yeses, 2 no's, being
Director Mihalik and Director Menten.
There is no executive session this evening. Does any Director have any old business to bring
forward? Hearing none, is there any new business to come before this Board this evening?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Lubow.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I just wanted to comment on a couple of items that were raised in the public
invited to be heard. And one of them had to do with hazardous pay. And my feeling about that is
that Lord knows we're not flush with money, and I know we're not. But it's something to think
about in terms of the morale. I think it's a legitimate concern.

And the other issue is compensation for Mr. Stinnett. I know that there is a lawsuit involved and
we I don't want to do anything that would compromise that. But I do want to say that if it turns out
that there does not happened to be a just settlement, whatever that may be, and I don't know at this
time, that I do believe that thinking about moral responsibility as opposed to legal responsibility
is something valid to think about.
So that's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Anyone else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did we complete Old Business? Because I show on the agenda we had a N
Line update under Old Business.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. I included my N Line update in my General Manager's report. I'll
see that's not on there again under Old Business. I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, does that suffice?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much. All right. Anything else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just want to underscore what Director Lubow has said in terms of morality.
I do think a just response is fair for Mr. Raverro Stinnett and I do hope that we operate in that
manner. And at this point, I'm kind of a broken record about the hazard pay. And I believe strongly
in our operator protections, the frontline protection, the protections of our frontline staff on which
in turn is the safety of our patrons. And so I hope we do move in that direction in making sure that
folks are compensated and feel like they're taken care of. Because they've been taking care of this
city, multiple cities, actually, in moving folks around. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Could we get an update on the status of that lawsuit? Is it like two years away
before it's going to be settled or do we have any feel for that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. This is Melanie Snyder, General, Counsel.
So there was a status conference this past week. The judge did ask some questions about the
motions that are pending, the motion to dismiss. He did not give a timeline for resolving those.
But it doesn't look like that case is going to be going to trial any time, I mean, even in the next year
would be would be soon.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. You know, it's a shame that our justice system is so backed up. And
of course, the courts have been shut down because of the virus thing as well. But it's a shame.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK. Thank you. Any other comments to come before this
Board?
OK. Hearing none, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Everybody at once. I'm sorry, who was the movant?
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the second?
TROY WHITMORE: One of the W's.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have Director Williams as the movant and Director
Whitmore as the second. This meeting is adjourned. I have 8:37 PM. Thank you all. Have a great
evening and stay safe.
JUDY LUBOW: Good night.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good night.

