Aug 21 2018 0530 PM Board of Directors Board
Meeting SD 480
[AUDIO OUT]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[GAVEL BANGS]
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I now call to order the Tuesday, August
21, 2018 meeting of the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District. My name is
Doug Tisdale, and I serve as the Chairman of this Board. The record will reflect that we are
convened as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully request that everyone please silence your cell phones or other electronic
devices. I would also note, for the sake of the record and for the benefit of the public, that this
meeting is being video and audio recorded.
Now, in just a moment we will ask everyone to please rise and join with us in saying the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Tonight, we are distinctly privileged to be joined, once again, by Boy Scouts from Troop 376,
located in the Virginia Village neighborhood of Southeast Denver in District A. With us tonight
are Scottie Snyder, Kameron Snyder, and Anthony Muller. These scouts will be posting the
colors for us this evening. Scouts, you may proceed when you are ready.
[INAUDIBLE]
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands-- one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: You may be seated.
Thank you very much, Scouts. And thank you also to Elizabeth Goetz for organizing this
participation by tomorrow's civic leaders. And many thanks to the parents of these outstanding
young gentlemen for taking the time to allow them to lead us in the pledge.
Ms. McManus, if you would now please call the roll of the Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Archuleta.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler.
[SILENCE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Good afternoon. I'm present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am also here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD, safety is our core value, and so I'd like to begin this meeting with
a short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our General Counsel to
make that telephone call. Any medically-trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator, known as an AED device, is
in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or for any other emergency, please
calmly exit out the door that you came in at the back of this room. Go up the stairs to the first
floor, around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will
be there to direct you to a safe meet up area. And anyone needing special assistance in the event
of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
Now, on a related safety note, please understand that while RTD takes every precaution to ensure
the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the
general public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and
trains and around stations, stops, and platforms. As such, we encourage all RTD employees and
patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or
dangerous activity and communicate directly with RTD Transit security personnel on a real-time
basis in the event of an emergency situation. If you see something, say something. The Transit
Watch app is available via Google Play and Apple App Store.
Thank you very much for paying attention to our safety briefing. We now turn to retiree awards.
There are several retirees for the month of August. I believe two of them have joined us this
evening, and I believe those are Michael W. Gonzalez, a Bus Operator who's been with us for 23
years. And Fred Worthen, I think you're going to do the honors and introduce Mr. Gonzalez
before we proceed with the second retiree who's present. So Mr. Worthen, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening. It is a pleasure, and it's sadness also that we will be saying
goodbye to Mr. Michael Gonzalez. [INAUDIBLE]

He's number 36 on the seniority list. He's joined by his wife Rebecca and by his cousin William
also, who happens to work in the Vehicle Maintenance Department here at RTD.
He has two children, three grandchildren, enjoys photography, music, bike riding, and
racquetball. And we are sorry to see you go, but we're happy that you're going to get to enjoy
more time with your family.
MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for your years of service, sir.
MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, I'm sorry.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Gonzalez-[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
FRED WORTHEN: I apologize. You also have a plaque. This is my first time doing this.
MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: You're doing a great job.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Come on over here in front of the curtain. Pay no attention to the man in front
of the curtain.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Dave over here for a formal presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: This way, then-MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: Thank you. Thank you.
you.
MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Congratulations.

MICHAEL W. GONZALEZ: The only thing I'd like to say, working for RTD, was an adventure.
I'm so grateful that I got to retire. I can't tell you.
[LAUGHTER]
It feels good, and it's everything they said. Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: And I have not seen Mr. Padilla. David Padilla was supposed to be joining
us, but haven't received confirmation.
Mr. Padilla, though, was a Bodyshop Mechanic for 24 years. Steve, he hasn't made it has he? No.
He has three children, eight grandchildren. He enjoys fishing and hunting, and he will be leaving
us after 24 years. So I wanted to acknowledge both of their retirements.
I also want to give you a little bit of a fun fact. We have had 39 drivers in the past year who've
retired that have had 20 or more years' worth of service.
[WHISTLES]
FRED WORTHEN: So we have had a number of people that have had great careers like Mr.
Gonzalez, and we're really happy to have had them.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I believe that for our next retiree, it is Gilda T.
Montoya, a Senior Accounting Technician who's been with us for 19 years. And it was going to
be Heather, but you're up.
GILDA T. MONTOYA: Doesn't look like Heather.
DOUG MACLEOD: It's not Heather. Good evening. Doug McLeod. I'm substituting for
Heather.
Gilda Montoya has been with us for 19 years. And Gilda started in the Accounts Receivable
Department within the Accounting function. And she was there for about a year, and she moved
over to Accounts Payable. So she's been doing Accounts Payable for 18 years. And Gilda's one
of the few employees that still knows how to use the old system before Oracle. So we'll miss
those talents going back historically.
But the Accounts Payable Department literally produces and processes thousands of invoices
every month in addition to making additional payments on top of invoices. We have a lot of
responsibility, a lot of volume, and Gilda was the key part of that team.

As far as what she has planned for her future, she has her family here with her. But she loves
spending time with her mom and grandkids, and she's very fond of her glass vase collection. So
thank-DOUG MACLEOD: Your glass vase collection?
GILDA T. MONTOYA: Oh, yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG MACLEOD: I think she is.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG MACLEOD: So, Gilda, thank you very much for your years of service. We will miss
you, and I know the department will miss you very much.
GILDA T. MONTOYA: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: If you'd like to say something.
GILDA T. MONTOYA: Well, I've enjoyed working for RTD. It's always been a pleasure. I've
enjoyed working with all my fellow employees. It's just been a great place to work. And the
benefits, everything-- I can't ask for anything more. And I just feel it was a really good honor-nice honor-- to work for RTD. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[CERTIFICATE PRESENTATION AND PHOTOS]
DOUG TISDALE: Congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any other retirees who are in attendance this evening? I know that
we have a couple others that may or may not have been able to show.
I will, for the sake of the record, read, then, that we do acknowledge the following employees
who could not join us tonight for their many years of outstanding service to the District.
Carol R. Coe is our Paratransit Services Coordinator.
[APPLAUSE]

DOUG TISDALE: Give it up for Carol.
Carol Coe has been with us for 28 years. And you already heard mention of David R. Podilla, the
Bodyshop Mechanic. And he's been with us for 24 years.
And then lastly, let's acknowledge Tom Sherrick who's been an FM Engineer and Supervisor for
17 years. Give it up for Tom as well.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: I understand there is one additional retiree-- Shirley Bennett, our Safety and
Environmental Senior Manager, who will be joining us for the Board meeting next month in
September. We look forward to that because Shirley has been with the RTD for an astounding 39
years. Imagine that. Where were you 39 years ago?
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: All right.
This evening, we are also honored to recognize RTD's participants in the American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) Bus Roadeo and the APTA International Rail Rodeo which
took place earlier this year. And to introduce the Bus Roadeo participants, we're going to hand
the proceedings over now, once again, to Fred Worthen, who's our Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations.
Mr. Worthen, once again, the floor, sir, is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. It is an honor to be able to introduce the participants here from
our International Bus and Paratransit Roadeo.
Jimmy Romero from RTD is not here tonight. Jimmy placed 46th overall at the National Roadeo.
We also have Jose Ek Chan from First Metro Denver. He placed 23rd also. And I believe his
General Manager, Cynthia Menge, is here. Cynthia, would you like to come up and take his
award?
[SNEEZE]
CROWD: Bless you
[INTERPOSING VOICES][CERTIFICATE PRESENTATION AND PHOTOS]
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: We also have our international participants from the maintenance side, who
are former East Metro team. Please, gentleman, come join me.

[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: Ryan Gill, Matt Johnson, and Randall Petersen actually placed tenth at the
roadeo. And I will tell you, if you ever get a chance to see a vehicle maintenance roadeo, it is
something that's amazing to see.
Each one of them has their place. They have their role, and they work like teams. It's
unbelievable how well they work together and how quickly they work together. If you ever get a
chance to see them in action, do so.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: I would like to mention one other thing. This was the very first time this
team has competed together. Placing tenth overall for their first competition is just unbelievable.
Congratulations, gentlemen.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen. That is terrific.
And now here to recognize the Rail Rodeo participants is our Assistant General Manager of Rail
Operations, Dave Jensen. Mr. Jensen, you, sir, now have the floor.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I'm also honored to introduce and present awards for the
International Rail Rodeo this evening, which was held here in Denver this last June.
So what I'd like to do is first introduce the Operations Team and their Superintendent, General
Superintendent to come up with me now. So that would be Narciso Garcia and Robert Dennis
and their General Superintendent, Gary Schaefer.
On the rail side, we've had some experience competing. Narciso is our number one in seniority
Train Operator. Robert Dennis is our number two in seniority Train Operator. And together, they
made a formidable team.
So Robert Dennis is a 24 year employee with the districts. He's competed in many international
rodeos over the years, and he has won the local rodeo seven times, has competed in the
international rodeo six times. He's won first place in the international twice and then got second
place this year. So congratulations, Robert. Good work.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: I don't know if his biggest competitor is Narciso. Fortunately, they were on
the same team this time. But Narciso is a 27 year veteran here at Light Rail, or at RTD. He has
participated in five international rodeo events, finishing fourth in Dallas, first in Phoenix, and
now second this year. So great work, men

[APPLAUSE]
[CERTIFICATE PRESENTATION AND PHOTOS]
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: I should point out that this-- the Operations Team-- finished second overall
in the competition this year.
On the maintenance side of the house, they placed second for the Wheel Measuring Event. And
unlike the operations side, this was their first competition.
So our maintenance employees are Mike Hubbard and Matt Jackson. I don't believe Matt is here.
But, Mike, can you come up? And their Manager of LRV Maintenance, Tim Walker.
Mike has been a light rail electromechanic for five years, and I'm told is a new father and just
came in for this this evening to receive this award.
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: And even though Matt couldn't join us this evening-- I believe he's ill-- I do
want to point out that he has been a mechanic for six years. And together, we're hoping that the
two of them form a team that's highly competitive for the next several years. Good job.
[CERTIFICATE PRESENTATION AND PHOTOS]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: We would like to send the most deserving congratulations to all of you who
have participated in these events. We're very proud to have such accomplished operators and
maintainers in our agency, and we thank you all for your efforts.
And now, finally, there is one additional employee that we would like to recognize this month.
At this point, I would ask our Transit Police Commander John Perry to introduce our final
special honoree of the evening.
JOHN PERRY: Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Terri Sims to step up and stand next to me.
Terri's a Bus Operator for RTD.
I'd like to read a letter from the Aurora Police Department from Detective Joseph Petrocelli.
Detective Petrocelli wrote, on May 26, 2018 at 1:23 PM, Terri Sims, an RTD bus operator, was
operating Bus 6104 and was stopped at the bus stop located at South Havana and East Virginia
Avenue traveling southbound. During this step, Terri observed a motorcycle automobile crash
that happened in the northbound lanes of South Havana Street just north of East Virginia
Avenue.

Terri Sims, being aware of the video equipment on her bus, remained at the bus stop and
recorded the entire crash and aftermath. Terri then reported this to her supervisor whom, in turn,
contacted the Aurora Police Department's Traffic section. We obtained these videos and
discovered that this evidence was extremely important.
The Aurora Police Traffic Accident Reconstruction Team was able to see the movement of the
vehicle that made the left turn into traffic causing this crash with the motorcyclist. The traffic
investigators also used this video from the Bus 6104 to calculate the speed of the motorcycle
before impact, which was in excess of 80 miles an hour.
This case was filed as a vehicular homicide. And with the help from the RTD Video Team and
Terri Sims, the evidence is indisputable. Because of Terri Sims' effort, this detective was able to
file this most difficult case with the Arapahoe County District Attorney's Office, and I wish to
thank her for a job well done.
[APPLAUSE]
So I have a couple of things for Terri today. First of all, I have the letter signed by the entire
Accident Investigation Team and Detective Petrocelli, as well as a Challenge Coin from the
Aurora Police Department, and then a special little gift from the RTD Transit Police.
I think it should be noted that as much bad press as our operators get, I think it's important to
show when they do something as wonderful as this. And it needed to be pointed out. So again, I
appreciate it.
[APPLAUSE]
[CERTIFICATE PRESENTATION AND PHOTOS]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chief.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: We may have created a new tagline. If you see something, video something.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: We turn now to our public participation period, which is open to anyone who
wants to speak to the RTD Board. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present
to speak first so that they can get back to for their own meetings and attend to their municipal
business.

If you have signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you
have not signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the
list, and we will take those additional speakers at that time.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes. Let me repeat that-- three minutes. We respectfully
request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a
speaker's comments, as such outbursts might reasonably have the effect of chilling the free
expression of thoughts by speakers.
And please also bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone, you are consenting to being
video and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our meetings are recorded and made available on the
RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments would have to be
submitted in writing.
So please come to the lectern when I call you, and state your name and your address. And if any
speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please feel free to give those
materials to the Board staff prior to speaking so that we may have those for the record.
Our first speaker is Bob Wilson. Bob, if you would please come forward. Name, address, and
you will have three minutes, sir.
BOB WILSON: Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, fellow residents of the
RTD great Transit District. My name is Bob Wilson. I live at 5373 Parfet, about one block from
the cacophonous or melodious G Line, which is out there testing away.
And I come to offer apologies for my bad memory, Scott. There was a member of your staff who
went above and beyond. Last, oh, about six months ago, members of my church decided to do a
fundraiser by viewing all the wonderful transit art and wraps on the W Corridor. And since I'd
worked down there, I was rather familiar with it, and worked with RTD in the past, I called
Christina Zuazueta. Pronunciation pretty good, I think.
And she went above and beyond. She got me information. I said, I sort of remember there's
something about wraps that Lakewood and you did. And she found it and sent it to me.
And then the 12 church members, who each paid money-- we bought the day passes for them-had a great time going from Federal Center Station, down stopping at certain stations, looking at
the art, the 40 West Arts District, spending 15 minutes waiting for the next train. I was sort of
the-- my wife was the caboose. I was the leader. Let's get on the train. We've got a lot to see.
And then, of course, we went down to Union Station, had a little lunch and a liquid refreshment.
So, Scott, I think I forgot to thank Christina. So if you would pass that along to her, I really
appreciate it. And she really made-- the information she supplied really made our Art on Transit
tour great. And we were hoping to do more, but-- go back on the G line and take the 100 bus
back to our cars. But it wasn't meant to be yet. We're hoping soon.

But the horns at 3:45 or so for the 4 o'clock train, hardly hear them anymore. So thank Christina,
please. And thank you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Wilson. We appreciate your comments.
BOB WILSON: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Speaker number two is now recognized, and that will be Jamie Lewis. Jamie
Lewis, if you would please come forward. Give us your name and your address, and you will
have three minutes.
And we can pick up the microphone from the podium. Our System General Manager for
Communications will assist in that.
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you.
As you had mentioned, my name is Jamie Lewis. I live at 1135 Broadway, Denver 80203. I'd
like to also congratulate the drivers and the train operators for the awards they got tonight. I've
always felt those people are your greatest asset-- RTD's drivers and train operators.
I represent the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC). We are a statewide nonprofit
supporting the independence and welfare for people with all types of disabilities by any means.
CCDC supports option 3 presented to you by the Pass Program Working Group (PPWG).
However, we strongly oppose raising rates, which includes Access-A-Ride in 2019. We stand by
this position because increased ridership through the implementation of a low income program
will help RTD meet its revenue goals.
Many people have asked me over the last three years, how significant is RTD? And my response
is always very significant. Besides housing, transportation is one of the biggest contributors to
our quality of life, whether you use the system or not.
More riders means having people obtain and retain employment. More riders means connecting
our communities to healthcare. More riders means connecting students to all levels of education.
More riders-- getting people an opportunity to spend their discretionary monies.
What is the one act that prevents more rides? And that is raising rates. I encourage you. Let's
encourage more ridership, and let's invest in our community. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Lewis. We appreciate. We ask please, as I said,
not to have any expression of support or opposition to speakers. Just please bear with us on that.
But we all understand in your hearts you're either applauding or booing, and that's fine. That's
where it should be-- in your hearts. Let it be felt there.
We would now like to recognize speaker number three for this evening. And that will be Kristen
Trustman. Kristen Trustman, if you will please come forward and give us your name and your

address. And you will have three minutes. And once again, if someone can assist Kristen with
the microphone so that we'll be able to get a good recording-KRISTEN TRUSTMAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: --for posterity. Thank you.
KRISTEN TRUSTMAN: Let me get situated here.
My name is Kristin Trustman. I live at 2800 Columbine Road, Denver, Colorado, 80221.
I did not turn around far enough.
I am here to discuss affordable fares for Access-A-Ride. Access-A-Ride customers are the most
vulnerable population of RTD riders.
The Department of Transportation ADA regulations allows transit agencies to make the
paratransit fare twice that of the fare of a trip on the fixed route system. But RTD Denver does
not have to make the Access-A-Ride fare twice as much as the fare for the fixed route bus route-fixed route bus.
Most disabled people, Access-A-Ride customers, live on a limited budget. Raising the one-way
fare for from $4.70 to $6 will make Access-A-Ride unaffordable for many of the people that rely
on it to maintain their independence, to go to places like the doctor, to work, to school, to the
movies. Like anyone, people with disabilities want to be part of their community.
I'm aware that RTD takes a loss with every Access-A-Ride trip, and I'm not asking for a 40%
discount for low income riders. What I'm asking for is an affordable ticket price for
transportation for the disabled. If Access-A-Ride fares are raised to $6 each way, people that can
no longer afford the service have the potential of becoming isolated in their own homes.
I am urging the Board to reconsider Access-A-Ride fares. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Trustman. We appreciate your expression of
ideas.
KRISTEN TRUSTMAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Our fourth speaker we will recognize this evening is Paolo Salozano. Excuse
me. I'm half Italian. I use the Italian pronunciation there-- Salozano.
Paolo Salozano, know if you would please come forward and give us your name and address,
and you will be recognized for three minutes, sir.
PAOLO SALOZANO: Thanks. Paolo Salozano, Aurora, Colorado.

I'm a 10 year rider of the bus-- well, transit-dependent. And I guess this would be a
communication-- attempt at communication-- to encourage a focus about what we truly want and
need. This isn't about what's wrong with this, or certain people, or whatever.
But I'm asking that us people-- the dependent-- no longer be regarded as-- I'm quoting, coming
from a book on this guy, Freire. But we don't be regarded as an abstract category, that we are
people who have been unjustly dealt with as far as lack of service and deprived of a voice. I've
been given three minutes every month to voice desperately an urgent concern, desperate urgent
concerns regarding RTD's lack of service and that's deprivation.
To affirm that men and women are people and yet do nothing tangible to make this affirmation a
reality is a farce. Sorry. I just- wrote this out, so the Board, to me, seems to have taken on an
overall posture or attitude of hopelessness. There's a theme of victimhood, a theme of aggression.
This is a human rights, civil rights issue at this point.
I've talked with a few of you guys. I've talked with-- and attempted to open up conversations
with Mr. Genova, Scott Reed, and never got anything back-- community outreach. It just goes
on, and on, and on.
It's-- sorry. So all I hear-- ambiguity, complexity. I've heard much about that in the rooms here,
about the growth of the city, the continuous lack of bus rider shortage. These are obstacles that
are given, I guess. Reasons for uncertainty and unreliability, that we are supposed to accept, I
guess. These are given as causes of the desperate condition that RTD is in, as I've heard it here.
Yet what is the cause of any condition of any operation, any project, any human endeavor? It's
human effort, creativity. It's persistence. And it's one thing-- well, this is another quote. But as
long as the oppressed remain unaware of the cause of their condition, they fatalistically accept
their exploitation. Further, they are apt to react in a passive and alienated manner when
confronted with the necessity to struggle.
It's one thing, and it's tragic, when the oppressed and exploited get fatalistic. But when the
leaders and the people who are supposed to guide and provide guidance and direction become
passive and claim alienation from the city and everything, leaves me in disbelief.
And I don't have solutions. But all I'm saying is like Margaret Reed said, the only thing that has
ever changed anything is people. So it's enough to talk about money and all that. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Solorzano. We appreciate your comments.
Our speaker number five this evening is Latoya Fabre. Latoya Fabre, if you will please come
forward and give us your name and address. And then you will have three minutes to speak to
the Board.
LATOYA FABRE: My name is Latoya Fabre. My address is 21395 East 40th Avenue, Denver
80249.

I have been a transit rider for about 20 years off and on. And for the past six months, it has been
more often than before. And I travel from near the airport downtown. I attend a place where I
receive transportation money. The transportation money is $99.
And I didn't know because it had been quite a while riding the bus and the train that there's a
different price for traveling through three zones. The $99 gives you two zones. And if it had not
been for someone telling me, I could have gotten a ticket for riding the train from 40th Station
downtown and then transferring to a different train after catching the bus to that first train.
And I found out that the difference in the price for my monthly pass would be $171 versus the
$99. And I was also told that you could get on the train, and get off, and then get back on, which
is a hassle for me because that means it would make me late for class.
I also have two students, children, that attend school and they now have to ride the bus. And
being a low income family, it means a lot to not increase the rates and also figure out something
for those who are in the lower income bracket to be able to use the transit system to get to and
from wherever it is that they need to go. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Fabre. We appreciate your comments as well.
Speaker number six on our list this evening is Kiara Fabre. I'm going to suggest there might be a
relationship here. Is Keiara Fabre present?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CROWD: She says she's not talking.
DOUG TISDALE: Not talking? All right. Thank you, Kiara. We appreciate your being here. And
I take it the same may be true of Leo Fabre.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Is there just an attaboy on what we heard from Latoya?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So then moving on to our next speaker, we have Jeff Su. Jeff, if you
would come forward please. And again, give us your name and your address. And you have three
minutes, sir.
JEFF SU: Good evening, everyone. I'm Jeff Su. I live at 3248 South Newcombe Street,
Lakewood, Colorado. And I'm here tonight representing as the Executive Director for Mile High
Connects.
As you all know, Mile High Connects is a collaborative of 25 different organizations
representing the major philanthropic organizations of the Denver Metro Area grassroots

organizations, financial institutions, and banks. And I'm also here speaking as a member of the
Pass Program Working Group that I proudly served on.
So we're coming into the long stretch, homestretch here, of a long process. And I just wanted to
commend the Board from the finance and administration meeting of maintaining what was
presented as option 3 to the public, which kept intact most of the recommendations from the Pass
Program Working Group with some changes. Particularly, wanted to commend the Board for
maintaining the inclusion of the low income and youth fare to be included in the final modeling.
I can't speak for the whole Pass Program Working Group. I certainly know for myself, we
always understood the Board would need to do their due diligence, and we thank you for doing
the due diligence on the entire package because it was designed to work together. And it was
designed to be a revenue neutral solution for the RTD Board.
Also want to commend the staff, Heather and Michael, who are not here, and all the other staff
that have, I feel, very fairly represented the Pass Program Working Group's recommendations
and have also worked diligently to look at the implementation solutions moving forward,
particularly for the low income fare and the youth pass.
So I know over the next month, you're going to be presented with a lot of numbers, and models,
and survey numbers, and budget figures. And I'd like you to keep just a few in mind.
38% of RTD's riders live in households making less than $35,000 a year. And from the latest
model that was presented to the Pass Program Working Group, plus Heather's estimation of
worst case scenario for implementation costs, we're looking at about a $11 million investment
annually.
To put that in perspective, that's 1.7% of RTD's annual operating budget to serve 38% of RTD's
riders. It's 0.55% of RTD's total budget to provide services for 38% of RTD's riders. But as you
consider your decisions this month, I want you to think of something beyond numbers.
So you might hear a lot of voices this month. Some might be frustrated. Some might be tired.
Some might be angry. And I just want you to consider a few stories.
In the early 1970s, a group of tired and frustrated citizens poured a slab of concrete onto a road
and made the first curb cut. And two years later, it was put into part of city planning, and now we
see curb cuts everywhere around the world that benefit bicycle riders, that benefit dockless
scooters now, and parents with their prams.
And that has led-- I wanted you to think about that because you have an opportunity to really
leave a legacy for this community. There will always be a group of tired and frustrated voices. I
ask you to consider the wisdom behind their frustration and just to remember that there will be
no model in the world that could have predicted the benefits of curb cuts across the world. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Su. We appreciate your comments as well.

Our next speaker, number nine, is Vivian Stovall. Vivian, if you would please come forward, and
we'll hand you the microphone. And if you can please give us your name for the sake of the
record. We know you. And your address, Vivian, we would appreciate that.
VIVIAN STOVALL: Vivian Stovall. My address is 4600 West 9th Avenue, Denver, Colorado
80204. And I'm here tonight representing my organization, the Alliance for Retired Americans.
In the three counties ( Denver, Arapahoe, and Adams County) we have over 28,000 seniors that
pay dues, more than that that don't pay dues. Throughout the state of Colorado, we have over
47,000 seniors that we represent.
And I want to first thank the staff. I went to five of the community meetings, and I want to thank
the staff because they really took the time and answered questions. Michael, Heather-- and I do
want to say something especially for Scott Reed.
For those of us who use Access-A-Ride, you know you must be out there at a certain time or you
will get left behind. And when I was running late, he immediately made sure or took the effort to
make sure that I did not get left behind. I was left behind at a meeting one time, and that was not
fun sitting on the corner waiting for someone to pick me up. So thank you, Scott.
But I also wanted to say something in regards to the operators. And that was my other reason for
being here tonight. I use, since 1974, I've been using transit service. And that was before the
Gang of 19. So I'm now using route number 9, and that goes through a community of mixed
income, primarily low through middle income, people who are seniors and disabled. And I want
to do a shout out for our drivers and well, our operators.
Because there's going to be a change, as it always is after a certain time. And there are three
operators that we sent a compliment about. And even though it took them a couple of weeks to
get the compliment, but it usually takes faster than that to get a complaint. So I hope we can
make sure that complaints-- you know, the compliments take as little as time as a complaint.
But I want to give a shout out to them because they don't have the seniority. So a lot of time, they
have to leave and go take other routes because of the lack of seniority. But for those of us who
are disabled who are in walkers, canes, and we have a lot of grocery carts and baby strollers, they
are exceptional. We have a lot exceptional drivers, but these gentlemen and ladies have been
fantastic.
And I just want to say that tonight. And they are your image out there in the community, so
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Stovall. We appreciate always hearing from you,
Vivian.
Our speaker number 10 is Piep Van Heuven, if I've read that correctly. And I apologize if I have
misstated your name. But I have Piep Van Heuven as number 10.
[INAUDIBLE]

DOUG TISDALE: And if you would please give us your name-- and pronounce it correctly, as
I'm sure you can-- address. And I'm adding time to your time here. And please proceed.
PIEP VAN HEUVEN: Well, it's a wonderful circumstance, but my name is Piep Van Heuven.
[LAUGHTER]
PIEP VAN HEUVEN: I live at 2545 Belair Street in Denver. I represent Bicycle Colorado, and
I'm also the Chair of the Denver Streets Partnership.
The Denver Streets Partnership is a coalition of community organizations that are advocating for
people-friendly streets in Denver. On people-friendly streets, walking, biking, and transit are the
first choice of transportation regardless of age, of income, or of ability. Our other members of the
steering committee on the Denver Streets Partnership include Walk Denver, Bike Denver, All in
Denver, the American Heart Association, the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, Colorado
Public Interest Research Group, and also Groundwork Denver.
We're here tonight to strongly urge the RTD Board to adopt the affordable fares recommendation
that was provided by the Pass Program Working Group. We support the Working Group's
recommendation for three reasons.
The first is that it will increase affordable mobility options for our most vulnerable populations.
And that is folks who are living in poverty. And it is families, and it is youth.
The second is that transportation, as you know, is typically the second highest contributor to cost
of living after housing. And affordable transit is really key to keeping our region affordable for
all of our residents.
And the third is that making transit accessible to more people leads to better health, economic,
social outcomes and enables everybody to benefit from Denver's booming growth.
We really applaud RTD for the extensive public engagement analysis, the very thoughtful
consideration that helped inform the Pass Program Working Group's efforts. And we're here to
say that we believe that now is the time for the RTD Board to honor the outcomes of that process
and demonstrate a commitment to creating an equitable public transit system.
Denver Streets Partnership is committed to working with RTD as an important partner in
delivering these important health and opportunity outcomes for Denver residents. And we thank
you so much for your leadership on this issue.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments.
Speaker number 11 on my list is Connie Shilvock. Connie Shilvock, if you would please come
forward and give us your name and your address. And you will have three minutes. Thank you.
CONNIE SHILVOCK: My name is Connie Shilvock. I live at 1800 West 52nd Avenue.

OK. First of all, I want to ask the people of RTD-- all people who work at RTD-- to stand up and
speak for the passengers. So often when-- for example. I'm sorry.
I know. I don't really understand it. OK. How's that? Is that better?
AUDIENCE: Yes.
CONNIE SHILVOCK: OK. Anyway, recently a bus route changed. OK? And there was no
longer a bus stop at 16th Street Mall.
And RTD needs to stand up for the passengers. I mean, the passengers are as important as people
who are driving a car. OK? If there is not a bus stop at 16th Street Mall, then RTD needs to step
up and make sure that there is one.
I mean, don't let Denver walk all over you. The Denver government is not-- sorry. I don't mean
to get upset. Just-- anybody who has any kind of influence, please represent the people.
Represent the passengers.
And by the way, there are a lot of people who want to take the bus who cannot because it doesn't
run where or when in a reasonable manner. People who actually had plans-- they moved to
Denver. They had plans to take RTD. And they try it out, and it doesn't work.
Very few people nowadays work only Monday through Friday 9:00 to 5:00. I mean, we need a
bus system that works on weekends, evenings-- real life. And you would have a lot of people
taking the bus, and we wouldn't have so much traffic because everybody would be on the bus. So
fix the system. You can do it. Fix the system when and where it goes. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Shilvock. We appreciate your comments.
Our speaker number 12 this evening is Stacey Johns. Stacey Johns, if you would please come
forward. Give your name and address, and you will have three minutes.
STACEY JOHNS: Hello. My name is Stacey Johns. I live at 156 South King Street in District C.
I am a parent leader with Together Colorado. I have come before you to strongly advocate for
option 3 that was presented to you that includes a pass for youth and low income riders. I
appreciate the statistics that Jeff gave us. That really-- 38%, that's a significant amount of people
that you can help.
And I think it's important that the low income pass and the youth pass is together. A lot of us
have the option of choice, but it's not really a choice if we can't get our kids there, or if our
younger kids, we can't get on the bus with them because it's cost prohibitive.
I know there may be a temptation to, once you get these recommendations, kind of pick them
and pull them apart and take out the parts that you like, and throw out the parts that you don't
care for. But I would remind you that a lot of money and a lot of time has been spent by RTD

and the folks that were part of the Pass Working Group. And there was an opportunity for public
comment, and folks came out and gave you their comments. And the vast majority of folks
support option 3 because they feel that it's important to support your ridership and to support the
kids so that they can get around.
So I would say resist that temptation. Because if you change things and vote on it, where's the
voice of the community? The community has already spoken, and they've been clear about it. So
thank you very much for your time, for your efforts. And again, I strongly support option 3 and
encourage you to vote for the same. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Johns. We appreciate your comments.
Our speaker number 13 this evening is Judy Werner Judy, if you would please come forward.
Give us your name, address, and you have three minutes.
JUDY WERNER: I have documents. Oh. Excuse me.
I have documentation for you. I'm Judy Werner, and my address is 816 Cherry Street. And I'm
here to talk to you about an idea. It's called the Community Bus Proposal. It's a vision of the
future.
So what is the Community Bus Proposal? Well, there's a 11 city council districts in Denver. And
each district would have a community bus which would cover a route only in that district,
separate from the RTD routes. And in addition to that, these buses could be electric buses. And
they would be in addition to what RTD already has. The route would make a loop within the
district and do it every half an hour.
And I'll tell you where I got the idea.
First of all, charge for the 35 foot electric bus-- and they come in 35 feet, 40 feet-- would be $1
for all day for adults and seniors. And disabled would be free. But it would only be in their
districts.
The first phase 1 could be the four districts of city council or-- it's the Election Commission-that butt up against downtown. So you would have phase 1, phase 2, phase 3 for these buses.
And I got this idea from a trip to Glenwood Springs. They charge $1 for their bus. All that's in
documentation. They had an ordinance that they put before the voter for a minimal-- the voters-for a minimal increase in sales tax, which it passed. Glenwood did this because they had traffic
congestion problems.
Glenwood has traffic congestion problems. I don't know if anybody's driven down Colorado
Boulevard or whatever-- we have traffic congestion problems. And we also have 700,000 people
that live in these 11 districts of City Council. So it's a lot of people.

The benefits for doing this are just to get cars off the street. And electric buses are-- there's one
right now running in Salt Lake City. They can run all day for 24 hours.
And the company I've listed, and it's all in the packet-- I'm going to be out of time-- but is
Proterra. They started out in Golden. Now they're now in California. They're very successful.
Actually, Jay Leno has one in his garage. So check out Jay on YouTube.
OK. I wanted to talk about the Highlands area. The Highlands area does not have a bus that goes
to Union Station. So people that take the A train, what they do is take Uber or Lyft to the airport,
or have a friend take them. Once in a while-- and people I've talked to-- convinced to take the A
train, but they have to take Uber or Lyft to get downtown.
So that loop could be over the 15th Street Mall and across the 20th Street. And do a loop around.
You would get more business on the A train with that.
Why should you do it? You should do it because of your mission statement. It says that you're
there-- RTD is there-- to provide transportation for the future. The voters-- I talked to many,
many voters. They do not have a problem with increased sales tax, but they want to know what
they're voting for.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Werner.
JUDY WERNER: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm going to have to ask you to close. Thank you very much.
JUDY WERNER: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate your comments. And please-- staff will take your documents
to make sure that we have that for the record, so thank you for that.
Our next speaker is Adrian Deshaies. Adrian, if you would please come forward. And I call you
Adrian because I know you. If you would please come forward and give us your name and
address. And you will have three minutes. Thank you.
ADRIENNE DESHAIES: Thank you. Good to see a lot of you again.
My name is Adrienne Deshaies, I live at 1101 North Emerson Street, Denver 80218. I am a
community organizer with Together Colorado and a longtime-- a lifetime resident of Denver.
I've been riding RTD since I was a few weeks old.
And in my work as a community organizer and formerly as a DPS teacher, I've worked for many
years with low income families and students. And I've seen the many ways that families rely on
RTD to live their lives and to support their families.

I would urge you to support option 3 in its entirety because I believe the youth pass and the low
income pass go hand-in-hand, enabling youth to have options for their education and also for
families to support their children by going to the grocery store or going to their jobs.
I have here-- which I'll share a copy with you-- a letter of support signed on by 10 area nonprofit
organizations that work with families and youth that I'd like to read a little bit of to you.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed RTD youth pass program. We
appreciate the effort of the staff and Board in working through the recommendations of the
potential youth pass program. We would respectfully request your support for the youth pass
program with the 70% discount pass for high school students, free RTD pass for youth 12 and
under.
We urge you to consider the aforementioned recommendations and have patience with the
implementation process. There are school districts, library districts, recreation districts, and local
governments with deep experience implementing youth-oriented policies that can help RTD
figure out implementation of the youth pass. With this in mind, the decision concerning the
youths' age should not be a barrier to a yes vote. Many school boards have signed on to support
the proposed youth pass program because they know access to transit can create higher
attendance in schools, help alleviate barriers to extracurricular activities, and support lower
income families.
The aforementioned recommendations from the Pass Program Working Group are grounded in
best practices for supporting youth as they navigate their access to health, academic, career, and
civic health. The proposed lower income and youth passes would make the metro area a more
equitable place to live and work by ensuring that our public transportation system and the
economic opportunities it provides is both affordable and accessible to all.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment, and I hope you decide to adopt option 3 in its
entirety. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Deshaies. We appreciate your comment.
And kudos to all of you who have, in fact, kept yourselves under three minutes. We applaud that
because we appreciate hearing you, but you have stated things so succinctly. We greatly
appreciate that.
Speaker number 15 I have as M. Scott, and I believe that's "Roaming." And I apologize if I have
mispronounced that. And I would ask M. Scott to please give us the correct pronunciation along
with his address. And you will have three minutes, sir.
[MIC FEEDBACK]
SCOTT RAMMING: Hello. I'm Dr. Scott Ramming. I live at 3356 North Franklin Street,
Denver 80205, the Cole neighborhood, District C. And thank you for giving me the time to talk.

I wanted to hark back to the earlier woman who spoke about putting the customers first. A lot of
people have spoken about fares tonight. I'd like to look at an aspect of information. And
specifically, I'd like to review the L line closure this past Sunday.
About a week before, I saw some signs downtown that said, there will be no L line service next
Sunday. There will be no shuttle buses either.
That was about all it said. I have difficulty imagining that might happen to any of the other rail
lines in the system, but I'm not really here to address any historical slights to the Walton Street
corridor.
It turns out the L line was closed because of a bicycle race that went up and down 20th and 21st
streets and essentially isolated different stations along the line. However, there was no link to the
route map from the RTD website or the city and county of Denver website. And when I did a
web search, I actually found the celebration along Walton Street-- sorry, on Walnut Street
several blocks away first.
When rider alerts came out, that helped a little bit. But on Sunday when I was riding a bus on
detour, there were still passengers who weren't exactly sure what was going on. I had some
Twitter discussions with your communication staff, and they said that there was an objective to
keeping the sandwich boards and other information short so that people would read them and not
lose them. I'm presuming that if people see L line and know, that's not where I travel, they could
stop and that would be OK.
But for those of us who do ride the L line, please give us the information that we need so that we
can continue to either enjoy the festival or go about our other life activities. And so again, I'll
close by asking to have a customer-focused viewpoint. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Dr. Ramming. We appreciate your comments as well.
We turn to speaker number 16, Kristin Seidel. Kristin, if you would please come forward and
give us your name and address. And you will have three minutes to speak to the Board.
KRISTIN SEIDEL: Thank you. Kristin Seidel, 6953 East Jewel Avenue, Denver, 80224.
I'm here on behalf of the Denver Women's Collaborative. It's a group of nine leading nonprofits
working with women, and girls, and their families here in Denver. And I'm here to talk about the
positive impact that nonprofits will see in the implementation of a low income pass.
We have seen much conflation between the low income pass program and the nonprofit discount
program. And know they will be beneficial to one another. They will in no way are they in a
position to replace what the other one does.
According to your own nonprofit report released in December of 2017, 88% of participating
nonprofits give purchase tickets to their participants at no charge. Only 8% charge the complete
purchase price. Nonprofits run on a strict operating budget. I'm sure that's something you're

familiar with. And the money comes from foundational giving, private donations, and
government programs.
It's an unrealistic position to put the cost, distribution, and determination of the low income pass
onto nonprofits. 70% of nonprofits reported that they met RTD's spending cap in 2017 due to an
increase in participants' needs. As we continue to see stagnant wages and a quickly rising costs
of living in conjunction with a predicted decrease in private donations, nonprofits are preparing
to make cuts to their already tight budgets.
Even with some crossover in who visits with some of the participating nonprofits and who will
qualify for a low income pass, there will also be a large group of people who do not participate in
any nonprofit program but will qualify for the low income pass. There is no way nonprofits will
be able to cover the total breadth of who is in need.
Through the recommended low income pass program, we see an opportunity of greater
population being served. We see an opportunity for our participants being able to maintain
independence of our program sooner. And we see ourselves as being able to serve those
participants with greater need in deeper and more comprehensive ways.
We would like to continue moving forward as seeing RTD as a partner in providing services to
our community and not another obstacle we need to deal with. As you prepare to vote on the
Working Pass Group recommendation, we strongly encourage you to vote on 3 as it was
proposed to you.
As you could see, the community is strongly supporting that. And it's the community you were
elected to serve, and we would like you to do that. And it's the community that is going to be so
deeply impacted by this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Seidel. We appreciate your comments as well.
Speaker number 17 is Art Prostkoff. Art, if you would please come forward. Give us your name
and address. And you will have a vote three minutes to speak.
ART PROSTKOFF: Art Prostkoff, 1901 Eudora Street, 80220. I have a fast question.
Based on my talking tonight, and I'm watching the clock, when will you make your decision
regarding about option number 3? When will that become public?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Prostkoff, if I can point out, we don't, during the course of public
comment, engage in dialogue-ART PROSTKOFF: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

DOUG TISDALE: --and answer questions. That said, information is available and can be made
available to you later in response-ART PROSTKOFF: OK. Thank you.
ART PROSTKOFF:
DOUG TISDALE: --to your question.
ART PROSTKOFF: So I'll get back to-- I've never been here before. OK.
I'm representing Metro Caring, a used food bank at 18th and Downing. I'm a volunteer in the
warehouse. One of my coworkers is here as well. Steph was supposed to be here, but she had a
death in the family.
I've been here to help get support for option number 3. I've been working in the warehouse for a
couple weeks now-- about a month or two in the warehouse. Metro Caring's been around since
'74. It's also known as the [INAUDIBLE] Foundation Family Nutrition Center. And we're asking
for help about to make transportation more affordable for Metro Caring's participants and
community. And I'm going to read it fast.
Increased public support and awareness of RTD proposal that would benefit many in Metro
Caring's community under this proposal, low income bus riders, many who are most transit
dependent but who can barely, if at all, afford the fare would qualify for discounted fares. And
about-- to create-- to please create-- option number 3 would create a discounted fare for low
income riders up to 40%. It would also increase the discount for youth passes up to 70% and
would have no cap on the number purchased for nonprofit programs.
So we would appreciate very much your support. And thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Prostkoff. We appreciate your comments.
We turn to speaker number 18, Scott McCary. Mr. McCary, if you'd please come forward. Give
us your name, your address, and you'll have three minutes.
SCOTT MCCARY: Good evening, RTD Board members. Scott McCary-- I'm representing
Boulder County.
I was fortunate enough to be on the Pass Program Working Group, and we worked very hard.
And I think we achieved everything that the Board asked us to do. I do hope that you support
option 3, which was the consensus recommendation.
I've talked to your GM and some senior leadership team. I think they all supported the process.
They thought it was a good process. I think if RTD is looking to then hold future working
groups, it's important that you honor the consensus recommendations that come out of these
working groups.

So with that, I'm actually going to switch gears and talk about another matter completely
unrelated. It's actually the LD route.
So the LD route is the regional transit route that goes from Longmont through Lafayette to
Denver. Currently, there's 21 round trips on this route. Four of those are bought up through an
FTA grant that Boulder County applied for. The proposal that you saw last Tuesday at the
Operations and Customer Service Committee packet actually cuts that route in half. So all of the
trips coming from Longmont would actually be terminated at US-36. So that would force all
those passengers to then have to transfer.
So it's actually a lot of passengers. This isn't a small deal. There's-- according to RTD's own data
that we've been given, there's 161 daily passengers that get on the route between Longmont and
Lafayette. So 161 passengers would be forced to travel. And in fact, if you look at the people that
get off at Union Station on the LD, three out of four got on before they got to US-36. All those
passengers would have to transfer. So this is a pretty serious situation that we're looking at, going
from 21 direct one-seat ride trips to zero.
So this is proposed for the January 2019 Run Board. That is not a run board cut. This isn't-- we're
not in a cut scenario at least for January. And actually, if you look at all the service hours, it's
about a wash. And some of the routes actually see substantial increase in service-- the 16 and
16L, collectively, are going to see 4,000 hours of increased service.
We're talking about 3,300 hours of decreased service for the L route. So it's not as if there is
broad-scale cuts for the entire district. It's really focused on just this one route.
I also want to be really clear that Boulder County, we paid for the match for the grant. And with
that same funding source, we'd be willing to continue to purchase those routes at 100%. So we
were paying 20% of the federal match, and we'd be willing to pay for 100% of those. So we hope
that RTD would at least consider us continuing to pay for those so that the service continues as it
is today.
That's just how important these one-seat rides are for us, that we're willing to put our local
monies in to pay for that.
So secondly on that, I want to talk about the Y route really quickly. The Y route is another route
that's being cut. That's the midday service between Lyons and Boulder. We also pay 100% of
that with our local sales tax.
And I recognize the ridership is kind of low on those midday services, but Boulder County pays
for all of it. And we would really encourage you and your staff to allow us to continue to buy
those up.
So I hope that in the next coming months, we can really work with Michael Ford, and Jesse
Carter, and the good team that you have to work to a reasonable solution for both the LB and the
Y route. Thank you very much.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. McCary. We appreciate very much your comments.
We turn to speaker number 19, Mone Miller. Mone Miller, if you'd please come forward and
give us your name and your address. And you will have three minutes.
MONE MILLER: I'm Mone Miller. 2360 East Evans Avenue.
I'm the Advocacy and Civic Engagement Coordinator for the Center for Work, Education, and
Employment or CWEE. A Denver-based nonprofit, CWEE helps low income Coloradans
prepare for and launch careers so they can help support their families and ultimately break the
cycle of generational poverty.
Each year, CWEE helps more than 300 low income workers find stable employment. These
workers reduce public assistance costs and generate more than $6 million in wages annually,
fueling the Denver economy. In addition, our participants are contributing to our RTD by paying
for it through sales tax and through riding the bus and light rail.
Many of our participants take RTD for various reasons, either because they do not have a car or
they simply do not have any other option for transportation. With that said, based on our direct
work with regular RTD users, CWEE as an agency would like to recommend that RTD
implement option 3 that includes the low income and youth passes.
One barrier to successful employment is transportation. Families in Denver are struggling to pay
for transportation in Denver, and that should not be the case. It is important that public
transportation is affordable and accessible to everyone, not just the lucky few. We are aware that
people from different economic backgrounds use public transit, but people living at or below the
poverty line use it the most and depend on it to survive.
One of the largest barriers to coming to CWEE or work is that participants have no transportation
to get their kids to school. Poverty, particularly generational poverty, creates a tangle of
interrelated challenges that make it extremely difficult for people to become self-sufficient and
get ahead. To qualify for welfare, a single parent with one child may earn no more than $3,972
per year. For families on cash assistance, public transportation is extremely unaffordable and
reinforces generational poverty.
When we talk about affordable fares, we're not only talking about one single adult using public
transportation. We're also talking about whole families with children who use public
transportation. If we want to break the cycle of generational poverty, we need to make public
transportation affordable for hard-working low income families
RTD's rates also impacts participants that become successfully employed and are no longer on
welfare. CWEE is a member of RTD's nonprofit discount program, which is extremely helpful in
providing transportation assistance while participants are involved with CWEE's employment
training program. However, we only have the capacity to provide transportation assistance while
they are in the training program itself.

Once they obtain employment and are no longer coming daily to CWEE, they become
responsible for covering the cost of transportation themselves. The bus pass becomes a large
financial burden because families are trying to pay for child care and other necessities while they
struggle to afford transportation. So option 3, the low income and youth passes, would alleviate
the issues that I just discussed with you. Thank you for your time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Miller. We appreciate your comments.
Speaker number 20 is Jenee Donelson. Jenee Donelson, if you would please come forward. Give
us your name, address, and you have up to three minutes.
JENEE DONELSON: Hello. My name is Jenee Donelson. I'm with the Rocky Mountain Bus
Riders Union and the 9to5. My address is 5535 East Gale avenue.
We are entering the last phase of what will be the legacies of this current Board, and what you
leave here is what people will remember you by. How you handle these fare restructurings will
be the values in which we identify with your face. Many of you are looking at new areas of
government to become a part of, and I hope you're paying attention because the conservative
climate that you're used to is changing.
The RTD is a public transit system. 54% of your revenue comes from our sales tax money. The
other 20% comes from state and federal grants-- also taxes. The other 20% comes from farebox.
In total, your pockets-- our pockets; sorry, our pockets-- fund your projects, and your projects are
not in line with our values.
We have asked for an income-based bus pass for the past six years-- six years of dropped routes,
route cuts, stop consolidations, exhausted drivers, fare hikes, and closed communication. The
people who need you most need an income-based bus pass. Rent prices have not stopped
increasing. Wages have remained stagnant, and there are cities doing transit better than us that do
not have the same economic booms that we currently have.
RTD's current money-making strategies mimic the very early stages of redlining-- raising fares
for bus services in 2015 but not the light rail service that services mostly affluent white
neighborhoods, drastically reducing services in under-served communities of mostly people of
color, and closing stops in from direct service providers like Metro Caring. Again, I hope the
current Board is paying attention because we are paying attention to you and what you approve.
This is an economical issue. This is an environmental issue. I have not seen the mountains in two
months, but I have seen signs that say, ozone alert. Please use public transit. But if I have no
stops or route by my home, what am I supposed to do? If it takes two hours for me to get to my
job, what am I supposed to do? If I cannot afford the three transfers at a regional pass, what am I
supposed to do?
The recommendation of the Pass Program Working Group put together at RTD's best option for
its survival. I would like to add that there is nowhere within the Pass Program Working Groups
recommendations of a fare hike. $2.90 is what RTD asked the Pass Program Working Group to

work off of since the first meeting. It is also important to note that the fare hike was suggested
before the group convened in July of 2016. We also know that $2.90 is a ridiculous fare price,
which brings me to option 2.
Everyone, option 2 is a fake. RTD does not give change at the farebox, and it is more profitable
for a person to have $3 in their pocket for their for the three-hour pass. The youth pass makes up
so much of a small percentage of RTD's overall ridership that it does not produce an accurate
percentage point in the beginning.
If RTD does nothing to advocate for its riders, it will fail. Ridership will continue to dip.
Services will continue to be cut. And there is nothing left for the riders. An income-based bus
pass is the first step in the right direction.
I urge the current Board to leave a legacy of great necessary change. The right is to support the
people and that support this staff's salary. I ask you to listen to the six years of work from the
Affordable Fares Taskforce and to do work that is needed to sustain your transit system.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JENEE DONELSON: Your failure to-- your failure could result in much more than high
expenses for riders. It could mean the end of public transit by way of our RTD's own undoing.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Donalson. We appreciate your-[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Please. I've asked before. I have asked before. Please. Cheer in your hearts.
Boo in your hearts. Please do not express. That's not fair to everyone. And the one thing we're
trying to do is to be fair to everyone.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
We turn to speaker number 21, Matt Samelson. Matt, would you please come forward give us
your name and your address. And you will have up to three minutes.
MATT SAMELSON: Thank you very much. Good evening. My name is Matt Samelson. I live
in Denver, Colorado. I've been an RTD rider since 1992.
I work for the Donald Kay Foundation, which is doing-- we work on education policy in the state
of Colorado. And for the last three years, we've been working on some ideas on how to improve
transportation options for students.

Now, The. Whole idea behind this is to improve the portfolio of transportation options so that
youth can get to school, they can get to work, and they can get to their extracurricular activities.
A suite of transportation option is particularly useful for students and families who are exercising
choice in going to school that's not their neighborhood's school.
In recent weeks, I've heard some concern that a youth pass would only benefit Denver public
schools, and I'd like to talk about that real quick. We spent a lot of time with school districts
across the metro area, and a lot of them have passed resolutions in support of both the youth and
the low income pass.
Now, the superintendents and the school board members did that after a lot of consideration of
RTD routes, and the frequency of the routes, and how that would affect some of their students in
some of their high schools. And so I'd just like the list off the districts who are in favor of both
the youth pass and the low income pass. We have Adam 12 Five-Star Schools, Aurora Public
Schools Boulder Valley School District, the Charter School institute-- which represents 41
charter schools-- Denver Public Schools, Englewood Public Schools, Jeffco Public Schools,
Sheridan School District, as well as a few other charter school management organizations-- the
Denver School for Science and Technology Kipp Colorado, and Strive Prep.
Now, these districts are going to be supplementing their transportation with the RTD youth pass.
They're not getting rid of yellow school buses. This is an opportunity for them to provide more
transportation options to students. They're not going to be discarding the work that they're
currently doing. And so with that, I'd like to ask you to pass the youth pass as well as the low
income pass.
Last week we heard from your staff that you're considering not including up to 12-years-old
being free. We recognize that implementing youth-centered policies is difficult, and it's not
necessarily something that your staff and, as a Board, you guys do. However, there are many,
many organizations in the community that are willing to help out and are experts in youth
implementation of policies.
There's are school districts. There's library districts. There's recreation districts, local
governments, nonprofit organizations. All these folks are here and ready to help out and to figure
that out with you.
And then the last thing that I was hoping that we could have a little bit more information on the
survey that was presented to all of you last week. Your consultants came up here and gave you
some numbers, but they may as well have come up here and started reciting the numbers for pi
and just been-- 3.1415 and continued on and on. Because those numbers are meaningless without
the actual data and the questions that are underneath it.
If this was a landline survey, then they missed pretty much everybody under the age of 40. We
would like to know if they were talking to youth. And we think that having that information
available for everybody in the public would be useful, especially if you're going to be putting
some weight into these numbers that were presented to you. I appreciate your time.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Samelson. We appreciate your comments.
Speaker number 22, Jaden Ngyen. Jaden Ngyen, if you'd please come forward. Give us your
name, address, and you will have up to three minutes, sir.
JADEN NGYEN: Hello. My name is Jaden Ngyen. I'm a senior at Denver School of Science and
Technology (DSST) Green Valley Ranch High School and a member of the Colorado Youth
Congress.
I come from a low socioeconomic background, and both my parents were high school dropouts.
I've been invited out to many speaking engagements since my junior year, but a big problem I
faced was transportation. I'm still learning how to drive.
[LAUGHTER]
Luckily, there's 40th and Gateway light rail that allows myself and other passionate students to
easily commute to the downtown Denver area. Only thing is even though these tickets offer
relatively cheap student discounts, there was still a point where I couldn't even afford to buy my
own ticket. I know for a fact there are more students who are in worse situations than me, and
providing an even lower cost for a light rail ticket can drastically benefit how us students create
change.
Being from the far northeast Green Valley Ranch (GVR) community, we sometimes feel left out
from the events happening in the downtown Denver area. At the end of the day, we're humble
students only seeking to create a positive impact for the well-being of our families. And I believe
that by providing easier access to public transportation, you'll be showing your support towards
the students and hardworking families who only seek to create a positive change for themselves
and their amazing communities.
Adopt option 3, and I am confident you will see more students taking action creating systemic
global change. Just look out for the Colorado Youth Congress. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Ngyen. And please forgive my mispronunciation
of your name as I called you. We appreciate your comments.
Speaker number 23, the last one I have on the list, is Kobe Penkhay. Kobe Penkhay, if you'd
please come forward. Give us your name, your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
Thank you.
COLBY PENKHAY: Hello. I'm Kobe Penkhay. I live in the GVR community, and I highly
encourage for you guys to consider option 3 as one of your greatest choice. I believe option 3
would help the youth to actually be connecting to the downtown area.
As a student that actually who goes to the Denver School of Science and Technology at GVR it's
really important as a junior that I'm actually doing internships. And with internships, we are
provided with a free RTD passes to actually go downtown and work on internships down here,

which is very impactful for the student to learn some soft skills for as they're going up and
learning how to get into college.
I feel like with option 3 with the youth pass, this is very important. Because as my family was all
so hardworking, we came from a low income background. And we worked very hard for me to
get into this type of school, and I feel very privileged enough to actually be down here for this
event to speak out.
And another thing to look out for is that I know I am also a student from Colorado Youth
Congress. And with Colorado youth Congress, we are a program of set group of students from
different areas of the metro area to actually come down here. And we want to work on systemlevel changes.
And with this pass, you're actually helping these students to come together to make these type of
change. Because we are the next generation for this society, and I feel like it's very important for
us to be able to travel into a specific work place for us to connect together, to build relationships,
and to work very hard. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Penkhay. We appreciate your comments.
As I indicated at the beginning of the public comment period, I will now ask for additional
speakers because we have reached the end of the list-- if you have something independent and
new that you would like to add. Please recognize we've had a number-- 23-- speakers who've
taken their full allotment and then some. But if you would like to come forward, we have made
that time available.
Please, if you would come forward. And I see someone at the lectern right now. We'll start with
that, and then we will get to others in the audience.
If you would please give us your name and your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
WILL ANDERSON: My name is Will Anderson. I'm in Denver County.
First off-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
WILL ANDERSON: Access to healthy, inclusive, and affordable transit creates a booming
economy.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Could you please direct yourself to the microphone?
[RUSTLING]
WILL ANDERSON: Access to healthy, inclusive, and affordable transit creates a booming
economy as people are able to move better about their city and access to jobs and resources. The

average household that makes $35,000 a year pays RTD $210 a year in taxes. That does not
include what they would pay in farebox revenue. Homes that make $35,000 are more often
transit dependent, paying RTD more each year because of costs of car ownership and ride-share
apps.
As income-based bus passes would alleive part of the cost of living in a rapidly gentrifying
Colorado, I've noticed also-- notice that Seattle's TriMet has been named the best transit
company in the nation, citing their income-based bus pass as one of the main reasons for their
win. If we want to be on par with other cities, we must advocate for the people who need the
service the most.
At the end of the year, RTD clocked over 6,000 dropped service hours, making it incredibly
difficult for transit dependent riders to get around. And I, for one, have noticed that the clock-the hours, because several of my buses have not shown up at all.
And we also have seen sharp decreases in bus service as stop consolidations and route cuts have
been RTD's main source of quick money. I've also noticed that the route-- when-- the stops near
hospitals, schools are the ones that are going away. Which is, I find that apprehensible, because
handicapped people, senior citizens, need those stops close by.
For public transit systems to survive, the people need to have access to critical stops, routes need
to remain open and must be affordable. RTD is doing exactly the opposite.
People who are given public assistance while going through periods of property often times do
not stay on these programs. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and other
public assistance systems have been renewed every three to six months. The income-based bus
pass could be treated the same way.
Not every low income family has children, though. The kids pass is helpful and necessary, but it
does not solve the problems under-served communities face when access to transit. Most people
do not know we have Board elections, but it does not cost money to run for the RTD Board. And
I've also noticed that it is very-- it's extremely hard to find RTD meetings on the website, RTD
website. Especially this one.
RTD has been notoriously closing stops and routes for black and brown neighborhoods. RTD
staff has said we know that lower income people will pay whatever price we set our fares to
because they depend on us to get around.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments. Thank you for coming
and sharing them with us this evening.
Next, I'm going to ask, actually, the gentleman who's approaching from the rear there with the
white cane because he did actually rise second. And I would ask that he come forward to the
podium now. If you would please kindly escort him, Officer, to the podium, so that he may
speak, then we'll take the others.

And we will encourage people, remember, you do not need to take the full three minutes. We
will be enforcing the three minute rule strictly.
Please, if you'll give us your name and your address for the record.
DERONN TURNE: We're right here. Turn this way.
JOE TRIPLETT: OK. Where's the podium?
DERONN TURNER: It's right here. Here's the microphone.
JOE TRIPLETT: OK. Got it. OK. OK. My name is Joe Triplett. My address is 3111 South
Truckee Court, Building 25, Apartment 102, Aurora, Colorado 80013.
OK. I originally wasn't going to speak, but I kind of feel like I need to. But I'm going to come at
this from a different perspective.
I think we have some of the best, if not the best Access-A-Ride drivers in the country. And
they're very customer service-oriented. They're very compassionate about their job.
I would like-- I'm very concerned about going to $6. We're going to top out here pretty quick.
These Access-A-Ride staff only gets funds from the state and federal government. They have not
gone for grants and government funds for various reasons.
I would like to ask the Board, which has been a very privileged to work with you and some of
you on the Board personally. I'd like to see us form an ad hoc committee-- several of us AccessA-Ride drivers, and staff, and Board members. I don't want to add any more to you, but I feel
that we've got to now find more funding. Otherwise, they're going to have to lay off drivers
because people are not going to be able to ride. $12 for a trip is too much even for me. I've lost
$1,705 per month this year in funds, and I know I'm not the only one.
So I want to work with you. I want to see us get more funding for Access-A-Ride. And I'd love
the Board and Access-A-Ride to work together. I know the staff-- Larry Buter and his staff is
well-overworked. So let's work together because I know we can make it happen. Let's get more
funding, so we can work together as a team. Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Joe. We appreciate your comments as always.
If we could have, then, the next speaker in line. Please come forward. And if you would please
give us your name and your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
DERONN TURNER: My name is Deronn Turner. I live at 3501 Hudson Street. The bus passes
back and forth right by the side of my house because I live on the corner.
What I wanted to talk about is I have four children. One just flew back to Baltimore, Maryland,
going back to college. My youngest child is eight years old. She has Down Syndrome.

And the thing of it is with the transit system, I want her to be able to one day be independent.
And one of the ways that she can be independent is by being able to use public transit. But if
public transit is too expensive, then that takes her ability to be independent away. And I would
really like for you all to think very carefully about making fares too expensive for people,
unattainable for folks.
It's not to say that we have a low income or anything like that. But I just think about it from the
perspective of just making things attainable and accessible for people. If you make things
unattainable and inaccessible, why do you have a transit system in the first place if it's
unattainable for people?
Because most of us here know that there are people that have the means, and they never have to
use the transit system. And they're lucky. Because when we first moved here 19 years ago when I
was pregnant with my oldest child who is now in college, I had to use the transit system. And I
was grateful for having it be efficient where I could get around.
But I would say you all really need to think about option 3 because it's the best option for
everybody. Everybody wins if everybody has the ability to have access and the opportunity to
ride the transit system at an affordable rate. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Turner. We appreciate your comments.
Next, if you'd please come forward. Give us your name, address, and you have up to three
minutes.
CAROLYN PICkTON: Good evening. My name is Carolyn Pickton. I live in the 2700 block of
South Vine Street in Denver. That's District D.
And my comment today is around the recent service changes that you all adopted with your
Board meeting in June. Over the last seven weeks, I've become a lot more familiar with your
processes here as an organization. And I've had to do that because I suddenly found out that my
particular route, route 27, was going to be affected by the service changes that happen next week.
One of the things that I really enjoy about Denver is the opportunity to use transportation, public
transportation. And one of the reasons that I took route 27 is because my company moved to the
Denver Tech Center. That particular route has its terminus at Ulster and Tufts. It starts out on the
west side, down over by Wadsworth.
There are plenty of people who actually take that route all the way through from west to east and
vise versa. People that are included in lower income areas, people who are disabled-- from canes
to wheelchairs-- people who are students, who actually go to Cherry Creek schools, people who
have jobs all along that route. The route change that is put into place, essentially, is taking out
the middle 1/3 of that route and leaving all those people who are traveling from the west only
getting to Englewood Station. And then it's picking up again at Yale Station and going to the
Denver Tech Center to the terminus point.

That means that people are going to have to transfer twice in order to get all the way to their
destination on the other side. It also means that I won't be able to take that particular route to my
job. Now, I am very fortunate that I also have a car. I would rather take public transportation.
So I would encourage you, during your next session where you are looking at service changes, to
please re-look at that particular route as well as other routes and dig into the data. Because you're
looking at people who don't just start at a particular stop when they get on but also people who
go all the way through. There are a lot of people that are going to be affected by the upcoming
service changes, and I know that you look at those several times a year. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Pickton. We appreciate your observations.
If the next speaker would come forward. Please give us your name and your address, and you
have up to three minutes.
CESIAH GUADARRAMA: Good evening. My name is Cesiah Guadarrama, and my addresses
5400 Sheridan Boulevard, Arvada, Colorado 8002.
Like I said, my name is Cesiah, and I'm a housing organizer with 9to5 Colorado. 9to5 is a
grassroots, member-based women's nonprofit in Colorado. And I'm here to testify in support of
the income-based pass.
We are currently seeing a housing crisis in Denver and in our state. The rising cost of living in
Colorado has had a significant impact on our families and our children. Some are having to make
some of the most difficult decisions like choosing between paying rent or buying food. We do
not expect RTD to fix the housing crisis or raise wages. But all of those issues are interconnected
and need to be discussed because they're all part of the same economy.
Transportation is an essential part of one's economy-- of one's economic stability. Those were
public transit dependent need a service that is affordable and reliable, so they can get to their
jobs, doctor's appointments, school, and so on. Access to healthy, inclusive, and affordable
transit creates a booming economy as people are able to move better about their city and access
jobs and resources.
As a city and as a state, we should ask ourselves, what are the concrete actions we are taking to
make this possible? As it stands, if fares are subject to increase in 2019 to $3, we'll be making
RTD one of the most expensive transit agencies in the country, with inadequate service to its
transit dependent riders.
That is a clear message to its riders and residents that we are not looking for other options but
instead putting the burden on them. In addition to raising fares, residents are often concerned
with bus stop route cuts and delayed buses. At the end of the year, RTD clocked over 6,000
dropped service hours, making it incredibly difficult for transit dependent riders to get around.
Being late to work on a constant basis or missing a doctor's appointment might be the thing that
puts somebody on the street because they no longer have a job or not being able to get medical

care that they need. People have gone back to jail for dropped service, and they don't have
enough money to ride the bus.
For a public transit system to thrive, the people need to have access to critical stop, routes need
to remain open, and it must be affordable. You have the power to give a clear message, if you
pass and support the income-based pass, that you value riders, and you are about being a city
who offers transit at an affordable rate because you know the significance that this makes in
riders' lives. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Guadarrama. We can appreciate your comments.
And by the way, if you are a speaker wishing to speak, feel free, should you wish, to say, I
concur in the previous speaker's comments. And we all understand that. But that said, our rule is
to allow you to speak.
So please come forward. Give us your name, your address, and you have up to three minutes.
And you can also just say, I concur in the prior speaker's comments.
JUDAH RUCSHA: Hi. My name is Judah Rucsha and my address is 9997 Martin Luther King
(MLK) Boulevard.
I started riding RTD alone at the age of 12, so I can get to school in the morning because my
mom had work. I'm asking the Board to work towards making all youth fares free or as free as
possible, even if they are traveling alone. For us, RTD is like a way of freedom.
Also, the Board must not increase fares for people with disabilities. It's truly unfair to raise rates
on a population that's 100% dependent on RTD. Everyone has a right to affordable and
accessible transit. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your succinct and cogent comments.
Next, if you would please come forward. Give us your name, address, and you have up to three
minutes.
SHALELIA DILLARD: OK. Hi. My name is Shalelia Dillard. I live at 8001 East 11th Avenue,
Denver 80220. I-- hold on. Sorry.
I am the founder of SCD Enrichment Program, and our mission is a recruiting and support
program for high-achieving black students and students of color in advanced and college-track
coursework.
I've have been a rider of RTD since I was four years old. During that time, there were several
occasions where I had to travel far distances, even from south Aurora to south Denver in order to
attend the school of my choice. As a former DPS teacher, I have observed firsthand the effects of
rising fare prices in the attendance of my students.

We would respectfully, as a community, request your support for the RTD pass program with the
70% discount RTD passes for high school students and free RTD passes for youth 12 and under.
With this in mind, the decision concerning the youths' age should not be a barrier to a yes vote.
Many school boards have signed on support on the proposed RTD youth pass program. Again, as
a former teacher, it can be frustrating to see students travel to their school of choice only to
arrive two and three hours late through the route changes or because of lack of funds. The lower
rates will also increase parent involvement.
The proposed lower income youth passes will make the metro area a more equitable place to live
and an equitable place to go to school. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Ms. Dillard.
Next, if you'd please state your name, address, and you have up to three minutes. Or you can
simply say, I concur in the comments of the prior speakers.
JORGE VALDEZ: Hello. My name is Jorge Valdez. I live on 26900 East Colfax Avenue. I came
here in support of option 3-- well, giving free bus passes to kids from the ages 12 and under and
discounts for the high school ones.
But the reason why I think it's a really good idea is because I'm living in one of the more poorer
areas of Aurora, I got to see a lot of kids from low income households who lived around 30 to 40
minutes away from their school of choice. For example, I went to South Middle School, and I
lived around 25 minutes away from it. And my little sisters both went to a [INAUDIBLE]
elementary school, and that's also 25 minutes away.
And since both of our parents didn't really make much, they both had to work. And that meant
that we, in the morning, had to go find our own way to get to school. And especially during the
winter, when it gets below zero, and it starts storming, and there's a bunch of snow on the
ground, it's especially hard for us to walk there. And the bus route was really never an option
because we couldn't afford it.
And I know that that's a story with a lot of the kids, especially around my area. I work with
[INAUDIBLE] Organization for Youth. It's mostly centered around Aurora Central High School,
and South Middle School, and also West High School. And what I see as a reoccurring issue
with a lot of them is that they can't find their own way to school. And a lot of them have missed
class because it's either too cold in the morning or if going out in plus 100 degree weather is a
little bit risky.
So-- [LAUGHTER] Sorry. I'm a little nervous. And-- thank you. [LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Valdez. We appreciate your comments.
Next, if you'd please come forward. Give us your name, your address, and you have up to three
minutes.

VICTORIA OKINE: Hello. My name is Victoria, and I live at 18023 Mitchell Street or Mitchell
Place. And I'm a sophomore at the Martin Luther King , and I also play soccer, which getting
transportation to it can be a little bit difficult. Most of the time I have to take an RTD bus. And
sometimes, I can't take it because money can get a little tight. And that means sometimes I have
to miss out on my games or practices. And as an athlete, I feel like I should be dedicated to my
sport.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Victoria. We appreciate your comments.
Next, if you'd please come forward. Give us your name, your address, and you have up to three
minutes.
KEELIE GRAY My name is Keelie Gray. I live on-- sorry. I think it's 11700 East 11th Avenue.
And I agree with others have said. And yeah. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that, Ms. Gray. We appreciate that.
Next, if you'd please come forward. Give us your name, address, and you have up to three
minutes.
DEYA ZAVALA: Yes. Hi, everyone. My name is Deya Zavala. I am with Mile High Connects.
I'm used to going last, but I am not this time. So, yay. My address is 879 Wolf Street in
Westminster, Colorado.
I agree with what everyone has said today about the affordable fare program and really support
option number 3. But rather than go into that detail, I did just want to note the letter that Jack SU
passed out earlier this afternoon, which shared 70 plus organizations as well as elected officials
that are also in support. Thank you for your patience tonight and just hearing all of our
comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Zavala. We appreciate that.
Next, please. Name, address, and you have up to three minutes.
KAREN MORTIMER: Karen Mortimer, 2949 Lafayette, representing Together Colorado. Just
two words-- I concur.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Mortimer. Well-stated.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Next, please. Name, address, and up to three minutes.
ANGELA WILLIAMS: My name is Angela Williams, and I'm Recording Secretary of ATU
1001, and I live on 4201 East 94th Avenue.

And the reason why I'm here is I was up in the information center yesterday, and I was told that
there's a new position being created up there for a brand new supervisor. And I questioned how
many more new operators are you going to have? Are you increasing hours? And I was told no to
all of it.
So what is the need to create a brand new position at the same time when you're asking the
public to pay more money for services? And how many new positions have been created in RTD
this year at the same time you're asking the public to pay more money, and you're cutting
service?
And I get the cutting service. I mean, our operators are being mandated six days a week. They're
tired. But what are you guys doing to cut the amount of jobs you are creating at the same time
you're asking the public to make such a big hit? That's my question. And I understand you're not
going to answer, but it is something that needs to be taken seriously.
You cannot be creating positions at the same time you're asking low income people to pay more
money. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Williams. We appreciate your observations.
Next, if we could have what looks like our last speaker.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIN MOONEY: Great. My name is Erin Mooney. I live on the 900 block of South Leyden
Street in Denver, but I work in Adams County. I am the Executive Director of a nonprofit called
Cultivando. We work with the Latino community around advocacy. And I just wanted to bring
up two things that impact Adams County specifically, and I think a lot of other surrounding
communities as well.
One is the promise of the commuter rail. RTD has invested a huge amount of money in
expanding the commuter rail up into Adams County, which could be a beautiful thing. But if our
riders who need it most cannot afford it, we wind up in a situation where the commuter rail
actually negatively impacts the community in Adams County by continuing to displace them and
continuing to raise housing prices.
We're going to see a whole lot of adorable little [? lobs ?] go up, and we're going to see a lot of
families continue to make the move that we see them making already. And that's towards
Greeley. That's towards Nebraska. That's towards Alabama because they can no longer afford to
live in Adams County.
I would love to see our transit system be additive and not damaging. And by additive, it needs to
be accessible. It needs to be affordable. I'm clearly a proponent of option 3.
The other issue in Commerce City where we work is that we have literally the worst school
district in the entire state. We have families that have no options because Adams 14 is continuing

to fail. And without accessible transit that actually gives families options to seek the better
schools in surrounding communities, we are pinning in those families for failure. And it is not
fair. I would love to see RTD be a partner in options for those families, and you can do that by
supporting option 3.
It's hard for me to advocate for something that is raising fares. I would love to see an option 4
that includes the benefits of option 3 without the raising fares. So get back to work. But thank
you.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Mooney. We appreciate your observations.
I see no more speakers in the queue. We will therefore close the public participation period, and
the Chair will administratively call a five minute recess for a two function break.
[GAVEL BANGS]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: --because I wish to express appreciation and thanks to all of the 34 speakers
who addressed us this evening, and especially to the Pass Program Working Group members
who were here for both your comments and your service. This Board is scheduled to address this
matter again at the September Board meeting. And the possibility exists that it may carry over to
the October Board meeting. But in any event, the matter will be taken up in September.
We next turn to the committee reports. The committee minutes were included in the Board
packet. I'll now ask, are there any questions as to any of the reports that are not otherwise already
on this agenda? If not, those committee reports will stand as submitted and become a part of the
permanent record relative to Planning Capital Programs and Fast Tracks Committee, the
Executive Committee, the Government Relations Committee, the Civil Rights Committee, the
Operations and Customer Service Committee, the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee, and the Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
[LAUGHTER]
Hearing none, those committee reports stand in the record.
Next, the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update Committee Chair,
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: You are recognized. Please, sir, if you would at this time share with us your
comments regarding the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So over the last-- so-- the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Committee met last week. We talked about the results of the survey amongst
ourselves as a committee, and then Mr. Genova came in, and we had a discussion about those
also.
After the survey was-- after the survey was closed, I called Director Tisdale. And Director
Tisdale and I called lots of the Board members. I called most. I called about 12, and Tisdale
called some other number. And so there was some overlap there. And to get a sense of the
comments that we heard during the survey-- the comments that were expressed during the survey
and the ratings that were expressed during the survey.
We both heard that there was a-- I guess I could read, but I don't feel like reading. But we both
heard that there was some desire to change some element of the existing contract. So given that,
we-- I guess part of our duty is to discuss those elements and those discussions with the GM. We
also had a discussion at the Oversight Committee about those.
So I'll just read a prepared statement.
So as the Chair of the GM Oversight Committee, I spoke with a majority of the Board members
to discuss the results of the mid-year survey results. In the course of those discussions, I was able
to get a sense of the Director's feelings regarding the current status of the General Manager's
contract. By and large, the majority of those with whom I spoke expressed a desire to change at
least one of the terms of the existing contracts. As such, I felt it appropriate to share those
conversations-- not the specifics or the respondent with the conversation, but just the gist of
those conversations with the GM Oversight Committee.
The committee met again this past week. And during our discussions, Chair Tisdale made the
following motion which has been distributed both electronically and in paper form to you.
Does anybody want me to read that?
PAUL SOLANO: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. It's a long one, so bear with me.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: That a group, consisting of Committee Chair Walker, Chair Tisdale, and
General Manager Genova, commence by August 31, 2018, preliminary discussions characterized
as, and understood to be, a tire-m kicking exercise regarding the parties' mutual consideration of
their options for an extended employment contract with General Manager Genova commencing
January 1, 2019 under the same general terms, including economic, as the current contract with

the General Manager. And that the group report the outcome of those discussions at the next
meeting of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
And that the committee then discuss, at that time, whether to submit to the full Board a
recommended action regarding a possible process that might be followed for the authorization of
a contract extension in the event that the preliminary discussions are fruitful, and that the Board
consider any such recommended action regarding any possible contract extension authorization.
Hold on. Let me start over.
Regarding any possible contract extension authorization process at the next Board meeting. And,
should there be an affirmative vote for such an action during the Board meeting, that the
committee then proceed to consider and potentially recommend for authorization by the full
Board the ratification of an extended contract for a duration to be determined.
So the committee members-- that's the motion. The committee members in attendance
unanimously approved the motion. That was five members that were in attendance. And within
the next few weeks, by August 31, Chair Tisdale and I will be meeting with General manager
Genova to do some tire-kicking, so to speak. To get a sense of available options for the General
Manager's contract going forward.
These discussions are intended to augment rather than to supplant any discussions regarding the
General Manager's contract that may take place in the GM Oversight Committee or in future
meetings. Chair Tisdale and I will report back to the GM Oversight Committee regarding our
discussions with the General Manager. And the committee will proceed from there with any
action-- any action-- being reported during this portion of a future Board meeting.
So I'll take this opportunity to remind all Directors that all GM Oversight Committee meetings
are open and also to the public. They're all open, and you're all encouraged to attend. And we
welcome your feedback.
So that's all I have. At the Chair's discretion, I will entertain or take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. We appreciate that.
For the sake of the record, I will remind the Board that the charter of the GMOC does expressly
confer on the GMOC the duty-- it is described as responsibility and accountability-- for oversight
and management of the General Manager's employment contract, compensation package, annual
comprehensive performance evaluation, and other duties as assigned. That is why the tirekicking exercise has been initiated by the GMOC subject at all times to reporting back to this
Board.
So if there are questions for the Chair, I see that Director Williams is in the queue. Director
Williams, you're recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: My turn to speak. Do I have three minutes, or? No.

[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Could you?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. OK. So let me not go down that rabbit hole.
So my question is, all committees are committees of the whole. Is that not correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, if the Chair may address that, no. The General Manager's Oversight
and Performance Committee is a stated committee of seven. All other committees are
committees of the whole. But this body, many years ago, confined that committee to seven
members.
KATE WILLIAMS: And that's the only one that's not a committee of the whole. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'd like to see that change right away. But I'll take care of that later.
So what I understand is that two members of this Board are going to meet with the General
Manager and discuss options. And then those two people are going to present that to this
committee of seven. And that committee of seven is then going to talk about that. And then they
will bring that back to the rest of the Board.
Because I'm not on that committee. So at what point do I get input into the discussion of my only
employee?
JEFF WALKER: You get input every step of the way other than the discussion with Director
Tisdale, and the GM, and me. So at the Oversight Committee, your input's very welcome. So is
any member of the public. They're all open, so input's welcome there. To get to vote? That would
be the Board. Does that make sense?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. OK. Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I would like to let Director Lubow go first.
DOUG TISDALE: So you're deferring to Director Lubow?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just because I'm going to go behind her.

[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Just because you want to go behind her.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Why not? It's been a long night. Why not stretch it out a little? Director
Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much, Director Menten. I appreciate that.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: I just wanted to say, for the record, that there was a pretty long discussion about
this at the Executive Committee meeting. And several of the people there, including myself,
basically said that we liked the contract the way it was, and it was vetted for a long time, and
weren't interested in discussing extending it, especially not without the whole Board being
involved.
And I know we were told over and over, yes. The whole Board is involved. But nonetheless, I'm
saying that people have expressed concern about this process. And we still have the concern.
And I hope for the best. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. We appreciate that. Director Menten,
you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you I will share that I'm also concerned about this discussion. And
know that when I was contacted by Chair-- General Manager Oversight Committee Chairman
Jeff Walker-- the direction I was going was not at all in a three-year.
My comment was based upon what occurred three years ago is, to be very, very blunt, I feel we
are paying more than we should be for our management. Colorado Department of
Transportation's (CDOT's) Executive Director is in the range of about $171,000, $174,000
compared to $295,000. That is a huge difference.
For anybody who's still in the audience and wondering about fares, you should consider the
overhead of this agency. So not only the General Manager, it is our administration.
So I'm interested to see how this goes forward. But I feel horribly awful that I did not make it to
the General Manager Oversight Committee. There was nothing on the agenda about having a
discussion. I got caught up in my other work, and I did not make it-- my fault. I would have been
in the minority, but at least I would have felt better.
So we'll see how this moves forward. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We appreciate that. And we appreciate, also, your sharing your
thoughts with the full Board as, I think, the whole purpose behind this engagement is to have a
full sharing with the full Board.
Mr. Chairman of the General Manager's Oversight and Performance Committee (GMOC) , you
you're recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So-- I guess I'm the last one. So just to wrap up, that is the process that
was adopted back in 2010. And that's one that is-- as far as I'm aware-- has been followed, from
talking with past Chairs of this committee.
So the point, at this time, I guess, it's different than previous points. Because we're at the end of
the three-year term. That's a three-year period that's guaranteed in the contract. The next year is a
renewal term. 2019 would be a renewal term.
Some members of the Board that I spoke with expressed a desire to change the compensation for
the contract. Some members expressed a desire to change the term of the contract. So I can't
choose favorites, so we have to have a discussion. If we're going to have a discussion, which this
process requires of me and the Chair, then we have to discuss everything that was expressed as a
desire. So that would be any compensation and any term.
So our job is to determine what Mr. Genova, or what the GM is thinking. He might be fine with
things the way they are, and then we don't talk. That's it. That's the end of the discussion.
But if he does express desire, then that's when we come back to the Board and said, this is what
we discussed-- either way, we say, this is what we talked about. But the length the conversations,
the number of conversations, is dependent upon what both parties want.
So this party, this Board, has expressed a desire for-- different members of this Board have
expressed a desire for change in compensation, change in term. We have to discuss that. That's
our role.
I have not seen the job description for CDOT's Director. I do know that that CDOT's
Commission makes $150 a month. If there's fat around the table, maybe we can start trimming
our own budget. That's something else to think about.
A lot of agencies around the country only pay-- larger agencies-- about $500 a month. A lot of
Board members don't make anything. We could start looking at our own compensation, if we're
really, really serious about it. So that's it. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale.

We sat here for an hour and a half this evening listening to public participation of people who are
desperate for us to either do an income fare based fare-- no. Income-- well, you know what I
mean. I guess I'm a little tired.
But also-- and to encourage us to adopt item number 3. And I think that's maybe a good step in
the right direction. We have had an employee come and to speak to us about finding enough
drivers. We've got school-- there's just a lot to go on.
It is that time to talk to our General Manager about renewing the contract, right? Not making a
new contract, renewing the contract, or actually exercising the one of two-year options, right?
And to go back and spend the time-- and frankly, a distraction, I would say, to our General
Manager-- to focus on a whole new three-year contract with all new terms means he needs a
lawyer. We need a lawyer. And it's an extended, protracted process that costs both time, energy,
and money both from the General Manager and from this agency.
My concern is that we just keep spending money on things that, to me, could be better used to
create a system that is more accessible to people. And when you think about people with
disabilities paying $12 for round-trip ticket-- I mean, these folks are on a permanent, fixed
income. And it could be going away too if some people have their way about it.
So we, I think, need to take a lot of care and be more humane about how we provide the services
here to the people in this district. And $295,000, by the way, also every time he gets an
automatic-- and it's not just Mr. Genova, right? It's the contract. It's not about an individual. I
think we're very lucky to have Mr. Genova, and I appreciate his talent and expertise.
The position, however, gets an automatic increase of, what is that? 3%, something?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, $10,000. But it's a percentage, isn't it? Or is it just a flat? Anyway,
it's just this automatic increase. And then if there is a discretionary performance payment in
addition to that, that doesn't just mean for the General Manager position, right? Correct me if I'm
wrong. It also includes all of our senior leadership to a certain degree. They get an increase in
their wages. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: It isn't-- I'm sorry. It's not really a dialogue in terms of questions, now, to the
extent-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well.
DOUG TISDALE: If Director Walker knows that the answer is, in fact, no, he can share that, or I
could. But-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's just my impression. So what I'm just getting at is that it isn't just
about one individual salary, right? It's all those other things that are tied to it.

And I don't know how this city is booming so much, and we have such a huge gap between the
haves and the have-nots. And it's really-- it's concerning, and it's deeply troubling to me.
I hope that the General Management Oversight Committee takes a look at whether or not the
General Manager wants to exercise the option, which was what the original agreement was, and
it has both parties decide, yes, we're going to exercise it, and it's over. And we get to the business
of providing public transportation. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. We appreciate your comments.
Director Williams, before I recognize you, I am going to ask if anybody wants to speak because
you have already spoken. And if you wish to speak, it's going to preclude anybody else from
speaking again because we will have exhausted. So I just want to make sure nobody else wants
to speak, and then I'll recognize you.
Oh. Director Anderson wishes to speak. So we're going to take Director Anderson first. And then
we'll see-LORRAINE ANDERSON: I actually think we ought to let the process work and cut off
discussion tonight. We still have work to do, and there is a process in place. And we ought to let
it work, people. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Well-said. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I wasn't going to speak, but I concur with Director
Anderson.
I called into the Oversight Committee meeting just because I wanted to hear and be a part of it,
and it was very inclusive. I was asked my opinion, even though I'm not a voting member. So I
appreciated that, and I intend to exercise that option in the future.
With regard to your comment about the CDOT Executive Director, I had looked at that as well.
And having served as Acting Director at one time, I know that there's a lot of responsibility. And
the agencies are about the same size in terms of number of people. And I'm mindful of the fact
that one covers the entire state of Colorado, so there's a slightly different description.
And the CDOT Commission only meets one day-- one and 1/2 days a month. So they're
compensated based on their participation, which is not as involved the RTD Board. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin.
I do not see anyone else in the queue at this point. Thank you, Director Williams.
We turn, then, to approval of Board meeting minutes of July 17, 2018. May I have a motion,
please, to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of July 17, 2018?

I have a motion from Director Archuleta. I have a second from Director Broom. Is there any
discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in favor indicate by saying aye. Aye.
Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
The Chair's Report-- at this time, I will point out certain highlights for your attention. Yes, you
can strike that as unanimous, staff.
The highlights are on Thursday, August 2, several Board members-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: You-- OK. You still need-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Staff-- all right. Please click on it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: You've got to give us a-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: And we're catching up. Our technology will absolutely be with us here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're ready-- you're ready to vote.
DOUG TISDALE: We're ready.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I need a vote from Director Archuleta.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. For the sake of the record, it is electronically noted
that that motion passed unanimously.
To the Chair's report, we have highlights.
On Thursday, August 2, several Board members, including Directors Anderson, Solano,
Williams, and I, attended the State of the City event hosted by the Denver Metro Chamber of
Commerce.
Last Wednesday, August 15, a number of our Board members and I sat down with our
counterparts that we have just described from CDOT's Transportation Commission for a dinner
meeting held in the spirit of communication, collaboration, and cooperation.

Directors Anderson, Hoy, Walker, and Williams will be attending the APTA Annual Meeting
next month in Nashville, Tennessee.
And noteworthy is that Director Walker is, in fact, nominated now, on a pretty sure basis as they
run these elections, to a three-year term for an at-large seat on the APTA Board of Directors.
On Thursday, August the 20, Chair Sisk will be hosting a Rider Appreciation event sponsored by
Commuting Solutions. That's being held at the Table Mason Station in Boulder. Chair Hoyt will
host a similar event at the Westminster Station on Tuesday, September the 18.
And on Friday, August 24, a public event for the Mobility Choice Blueprint will be held at the
History Colorado Building at 1200 Broadway.
The RTD Light Rail Rodeo will be held on Saturday, August 25 at the Elati Light Rail Division.
And the Bus Roadeo will take place at the District Shops on Saturday, September 15. And we
encourage all Directors who can make it, please to do so. It's an exciting event, and staff truly
does appreciate seeing you there.
RTD is hosting a briefing for the candidates for the RTD Board of Directors. That event will be
held from 3:00 PM to 5:30 PM on Monday, August 27. And both General Manager Genova and I
will participate and meet with our perspective colleagues at that time.
Other candidate fora are being scheduled, and that includes one that is being presented by Dr.
Mack on September the 4 at 1:30 PM at the-KATE WILLIAMS: Alliance Center.
DOUG TISDALE: --Alliance Center. At the Alliance Center. Further details can be obtained
from Director Williams and from Board Office staff.
That concludes the Chair's Report this time. Let's turn to the General Manager's report.
As our General Manager noted last week, I will just add RTD will be hosting a Transportation
Transformation summit on the morning of Wednesday, September 13. That event will be held at
the Tivoli Turnhalle on the Auraria campus. General Manager Genova, we would love to hear
more details about that you may have along with the other information in your report.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you your esteemed General Manager, Mr. David Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
A few items to update on tonight. And I'll start with that link on that Transportation
Transformation Transit Agency to Mobility Integrator. That's the title of the summit that we're
going to be doing on September 13. It's from 7:30 to 11:30, as you said, at Auraria.

We have a small working group that we've had together of some local transportation
professionals working with us, putting together the agenda. We should have the agenda finalized
in the next day or so, and so we'll be getting that out to the Board along with the formal
invitation. I think you all received a save the date last week.
We realize there's a couple other events going on that day. We did our best to try to plan around
everything that's happening, including CDOT's event that's two weeks after ours. There's just lots
and lots of events to work around, so it was just very difficult to avoid a conflict.
Really, this is going to be more than just a one-way presentation. What we really want to
accomplish is really engage in a dialogue with transportation professionals from the local
municipalities, and counties, and Telephone Management Applictions (TMAs), and Telephone
Management Organization'sT(MOs), and provide some information on some of the things RTD's
working on, some of the things that are going on around the industry regarding mobility. But
really, to get some real serious input from our stakeholders throughout the entire region about
what they would like us to be seen, what are gaps in their areas, and really have them engaged
alongside us in leading this conversation on the future of mobility in the region. So this is just
kind of the first part of that big outreach and engagement that will happen on September 13.
A few things that I've reported briefly on before, but I got a couple of questions recently. So I
just wanted to make sure that the full Board has seen the information that we've put out.
We recently had a financial management oversight audit, very comprehensive audit from the
Federal Transit Administration. And the regional administrators said they selected RTD in this
region because we are the largest, and most complex, and complicated agency in terms of our
financials, and grants, and things like that.
And we got very glowing remarks. The project manager said it's the fewest number of exceptions
he's ever seen in a report and. Then the-- Cindy Terwilliger, our Regional Administrator for
Region 8, was very, very gracious in her remarks as well that they were very minor and nothing
that can't be worked through. So great review. And that, course, that was on the heels of the
triannual that we had last year.
The Board's familiar with seeing my GM report that is always within the Board packet. I'm going
to start working on providing a little bit more information in that report, so you'll be seeing that
beginning next month to the extent that I can flesh out a little bit more info on the variety of
different things that we're doing there in terms of what the meetings are about and that.
Yesterday, we had the General Manager and CEO from Jacksonville Transit Authority in
Jacksonville, Florida here. They're going to be coming as part of a chamber visit, I believe, in
October. And this was their advance trip. And the reason they're coming to Denver is they want
to know how we did Denver Union Station, how we did Fast Tracks, the Eagle Project, and also
how we've been really successful with transit-oriented development.

So we had a really good meeting with them. And they'll be, as I said, coming back later in the
fall, so we look forward to seeing them. And by the way, that's also-- that General Manager, Nat
Ford, is also the Chair of American Public Transportation Association (APTA) this year.
Somebody mentioned the raw data, I think, during the public comment tonight around the
telephone survey. And we provided that to the Board on Friday. I sent one email that was the
Friday memo and then one email that was just about the fair proposal information because I
didn't want that to get lost in the shuffle because there was a lot of information that came out on
Friday.
And I did-- you probably saw today I reissued the service, the Service Level Agreement (SLA)
map. Because when we converted it to accessibility, it dropped some info. I thought it looked
unusual, and I confirmed that today with the team. And I had a couple of questions on it. So
sorry about that confusion, and I hope it's making sense now.
But what we're going to do-- in fact, I have a draft that I'm reviewing. Some of that raw data-- we
captured a lot of information from non-riders in that data. So you have to really look at it to see
it, but I've had our-- I've had our market research group put together about 10, 15 or so slides that
just shows that information in a much more visual representation. But I think it's really
interesting to see what the survey called people that have ridden RTD versus those that haven't
ridden RTD.
And you can see some comparisons there. And I've had questions about doing more surveys of
non-riders, which we're going to be doing more of. But I think this is interesting information.
We'll have that, I think, in front of the Board later this week.
You may have also seen-- I just sent out this afternoon the annual Northwest Rail Report. And
this is something that came out of Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) that we agreed that
we would publish a report that basically talks about the various commitments we had made and
the progress regarding the Northwest Rail and our conversations. Also included with that report
was correspondence of a letter that went to the Burlington Northern Santa Fe asking them to
work with us on pricing for that corridor.
We're hoping to get some information back from them in a couple of weeks. I'm not sure if it's
going to be in the form of very specific pricing or going to be more in terms of asking us a few
more questions, so we can get towards that pricing. But I'm pleased at the timing of the report. It
will be an agenda item on next week's US-36 Mayor and Commissioners Coalition. So we'll
make sure that we walk through that report with the stakeholders.
And Bill van Meter sent that out. After we sent it to the Board, he sent it out to our various
stakeholders along the corridor.
And thank you, Chair, for mentioning the Light Rail Roadeo, which is this Saturday, and then, of
course, the bus roadeo which is coming up next month.
A quick update on University of Colorado A Line, and G Line, and a little bit on the B Line.

We continue to do the testing on the G Line. I did send you all an email right before this meeting
started. We did-- of course, one of the reasons you test is to see how everything works and if you
have any glitches.
On the G Line during testing, we did find an anomaly that we think is related to software that's
going to take a little bit of work on behalf of DTP and their contractors. So they're diligently
working that. And they have another meeting, a telephone conference, scheduled with the FRA
tomorrow to describe the root cause of what they're seeing and then also hopefully some
mitigation. But I encourage you to take a look at that email that I sent you because it's got a little
bit more information that you'll be interested in seeing.
So that concludes my report, and I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. We appreciate that comprehensive
report. And again, details will be available from General Manager and from Board Office staff.
And in the future, you might have even some greater detail in those comments.
We have one speaker in the queue. Director Folska, you are recognized for a question to the
General Manager.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
General Manager Genova, will you be videotaping your Transportation Transformation Summit?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. We are planning on doing that, so it's available to those that are not
able to participate.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excellent. Will that be a live feed or something you pick up later?
DAVID GENOVA: We don't intend on doing a live feed, but we will post it later to our website.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then, finally, what's different between your summit and CDOT's
summit?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, CDOT's focus is really on the things that CDOT's working on and
more what a state transportation department would do. Ours will be more focused on mobility
isSues around transit. But I think the most unique thing about ours is we want to engage our
stakeholders in a dialogue and receive their input, and then work together in a collaborative
fashion toward solving mobility issues throughout the region.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska.
Anything further to add, General Manager Genova?

DAVID GENOVA: No, thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir.
We turn to our unanimous consent portion of the agenda. We have one item on the unanimous
consent agenda tonight. It is noted as agenda item 11, action A. It is the Citizen's Advisory
Committee appointments. You will find that as tab 11 A in your Board packets. It commences at
page 27 of the packet.
If anyone has a change to or questions regarding this item, please feel free to advise the Chair at
this time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for
discussion under recommended action. Are there any takers to that?
Hearing none, may I have a motion now to approve the loan item on the consent agenda?
I have Director Williams as a movement. I have director Lubow as a second. Any discussion on
that motion?
Hearing none, all those in favor, please vote electronically to indicate your assent with Director
Williams as the movement and Director Lubow as the second.
That motion passes unanimously by a vote of 14 in favor, none opposed, and with one absent
vote.
We now turn to the recommended action. In this case, we have only one recommended action on
the agenda tonight. That is noted as agenda item 12, action B. And if you turn to your packets,
should you feel so inclined, that begins at packet page 30.
It is the award of Access-A-Ride call center services. It is recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to enter a new contract for the provision of Access-A-Ride call center services with
First Transit Inc. This contract is for three years with two one-year options for a total five-year
amount. Not to exceed $15 million $114,226.
This proposal represents the most responsive and cost-efficient proposal received in response to
requests for proposals RFP18-DK-001 to provide Access-A-Ride call center services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective October 1, 2018. This
recommendation addresses two of the General Manager's 2018 goals. Career goal number 1-successful delivery of transit services, and core goal number 3, strong financial management.
May I have a motion to approve the recommended action?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Anderson. I have a second from Director
Archuleta. Is there any discussion on that motion? Great.

I have Director Menten in the queue. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Just very briefly, reminder of my statement. Why I'm voting no is
that with roughly $3 million a year for this and with the new electronic system that we are going
to-- that's going to be innovated, I'm concerned that a three-year ties us in too long when we have
technology improvement right around the corner. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. We appreciate the cogent
observation. Any other discussion on the recommended action item?
If not, we have double A's. We've got Director Anderson as the movement, Director Archuleta as
the second. If you would please vote, please. And then the rest of us may then vote.
All of the votes are in. The vote is 13 in favor, one opposed, and one absent vote. By a vote of 13
to 1, the matter is passed.
For the sake of the record, there is no executive session this evening, so we will not ask for that.
Is there any old business that any Director is aware of to be brought forth before the Board at this
time?
Hearing none. In terms of new business, Is there any new business that any Director wishes to
bring forward to the Board this time?
The Chair has one piece of new business that I would like to bring to your attention, please. We
are requesting the scheduling of a special Board meeting on Thursday, September 20, 2018 to
commence at 5:30 PM for purposes of discussing the results of the structured mediation between
RTD and Denver Transit Partners, to be conducted in Denver on September 17 through
September 19.
You may recall that the Chair, pursuant to Article 4, section 2 of our bylaws, has the express
authority to call a special meeting. But this Chair would prefer to present the question to the full
Board in a spirit of open communication, collaboration, and cooperation. Moreover, please note
that should circumstances not warrant the calling of such a meeting, the meeting would, of
course, be vacated.
May I please have a motion to have a special meeting of the Board at the date and time indicated,
Thursday, September 20 at 5:30 PM?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Anderson. I have a second from Director
Williams. Is there any discussion on that motion? Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: I will be out of town.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the notice. We appreciate that. Is there any further
discussion on the motion for a special meeting on Thursday September 20 at 5:30 PM?
Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is that at 5:30 as usual in this same place?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I apologize. Time and location?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, 5:30 PM. And intended location is here in the RTD Conference Rooms.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams, for that clarification because I did
not mention the venue. And I appreciate that.
Chair Hoy, you're recognized.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I guess the Thursday throws me off a little bit. So I may be-- I'll
probably vote yes for this, but I may be late or very late. I'm not sure yet. I'll try to make it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your advisement to that effect, and we
do recognize that this is an unusual time. But we live in unusual times, don't we?
So given that, is there any further discussion on the motion?
Hearing none, Director Anderson, I have you down as the movement. And Director Williams, I
have you as the second. If you would please vote, then we may proceed with the conclusion of
this matter.
[INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: You'll need to add me manually, please, as a yes.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: Same here. I re-logged that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I'm having to log back in.
DOUG TISDALE: Directors Menten and Archuleta-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And Folska.
DOUG TISDALE: --and Folska we will note as manual yes votes. Because we can handle that.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Does anyone know the Jeopardy theme?
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: And we now have a recorded vote of 11 who are electronically indicated yes.
We have three verbal yesses from people who were not able to cast their votes electronically,
that being Director Menten, Director Archuleta, and Director Folska.
Is there any correction or change to that voting record as I have enunciated it into this record?
Hearing none, that will stand as approved, and the motion is passed unanimously.
Is there any further business come before this Board?
Seeing no further business to come before the Board at this time, the Chair will entertain a
motion to adjourn the RTD Board meeting at 8 17 PM.
I have a motion to adjourn. I have a second. Any discussion?
No discussion. All those in favor indicate by saying aye. Aye.
There are no opposed. That passes unanimously. Thank you very much. We stand-[GAVEL BANGS]
DOUG TISDALE: --adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

