2022-12-06
Special Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. I will now call the Tuesday, December 6, 2022 special board meeting to
order. We're convened as of 5:31 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted until you are
recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that until further notice the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held
remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit
RTD-denver.com. And the live stream of this meeting is also available via our RTD's YouTube page.
I'm not going to read the civility statement again. Let's get this off the-- be nice to each other. I'm going to
ask Ms. McManus at this time to call roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you, Chair. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan? Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I'm going to try Director Sloan again.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. We have 13 present and two absent. We have a quorum.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I'm here too. So good. That's great. This is now public comment. I also want to
recognize the presence of Stuart Summers, our Chief Communications and Engagement Officer.
Welcome, Mr. Summers.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Thank you for having me.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Next is our public comment period, which is open to anyone who would like to
address the Board. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or
press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at RTD.boardoffice@RTD-denver.com.
During this time the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin

their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments.
Ms. McManus, anybody log in or anybody raise their hand for comments?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have eight attendees and one hand raised. Cornelia Hall.
VINCE BUZEK: Cornelia Hall, you have three minutes. Please state your name. And you may begin.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You are still muted.
CORNELIA HALL: Sorry. Can you hear me now?
VINCE BUZEK: We can hear you.
CORNELIA HALL: I'm afraid that I have a somewhat negative report that I would like to give to you,
although I am positively grateful for the service of RTD, and it's been very important to me in my life.
However, at this time, my well-being, my mental well-being is not well. And it's because, I think, of the fact
that I can't really get anywhere successfully on RTD anymore.
Now, I know that during the virus, a number of situations were beyond your control. However, at this
point, I have thought that you may have been reinstalling some of the rides or some of the stops. The
service in my situation has become actually almost non-existent because I used to take the 16 express to
Lakewood for a support meeting on Fridays to the Clements Community Center. I live in Capitol Hill.
That bus has been discontinued, even though it was very well traveled, and it made a big difference in the
ability to get from downtown Denver to Lakewood and to get back, especially in this inclement weather.
I have had some very bad experiences with-- so not only that, all of my stops were taken away a couple
of years ago, maybe one or two years ago. All the Emerson Street stops, the number 10 Emerson Street
stop, the number six Emerson Street stop.
I don't want to go into some of the other particulars, such as-- I can name all the stops that have, for
example, have the seats taken out, and the seats that don't face the way the direction the bus is coming
from. So you can't really sit there and know when the bus is there and rise up and go out to the curb.
I mean, there are many-- and there are also situations in which the shelter is available if you're standing,
but when you're sitting, the shelter is not available. But these accumulation of these impressions result in
the feeling for the rider that the public transportation user is really not considered or important or almost in
a way, well, you would think that some of these things would have been done with a more rational
approach, perhaps by somebody who used these various stops and trips.
But the worst thing for me has been the access van, which served me very well during the time I was
using my walker. And I still take that bus. However, the service has deteriorated very sharply within the
past month or so to the point that I've had very bad experiences. The last one, I have to tell you, was I
was trying to get from my home out to the Lakewood Community Center.

There was the van, apparently. I hardly see the van anymore. I have cab drivers. The cab drivers, this
one in particular, seemed to really resent doing this. And so the first cab driver that came-- there used to
be automated calls that would tell you when they would arrive, when the ride would arrive. However, there
was no automated call. So consequently, I took 10 minutes-- I have to say, my fault-- getting downstairs
to the ride.
By then, the cab driver had left. However, he went and picked up another person, and he did return about
15, 20 minutes later. But he was quite irate. He then took me over to Five Points, to somewhere in a very
roundabout way. And that took about 25 minutes to drop off the passenger that he picked up that he
would have picked up after me if I had been down within the 10-minute arrival time that's allowed for the
van.
Or maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's slightly less than that. At any rate, when I got over to Five Points, he
dropped off the other person at some kind of an apartment building or something. And he went on to talk
to the dispatch and was told that he was to go to Thornton. And I said, well, I cannot go to Thornton. I'm
an 80-year-old person. I can't sit in the cab that long. What about my trip in the opposite direction or the
90-degree opposite direction?
VINCE BUZEK: Cornelia, I'm going to stop you here. You're coming up to three minutes.
CORNELIA HALL: He would not allow me to get out of the cab.
VINCE BUZEK: Can you wrap up your comments?
CORNELIA HALL: He would not allow me to get out of the cab. It's very upsetting. Thank you very much
for your time.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments.
CORNELIA HALL: He would not allow me to get out unless he took me home. He locked the doors when
I tried to get out and take the train. And I saw a train across the street.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments. Are there any other hands that are raised for public
comment?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see none, Chair. Thank you. You're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this
time. We have two recommended actions to come to us tonight, listed as items Roman numeral IV A and
B, the first being the 2023 GM CEO performance appraisal criteria and weighting. And I need a motion for
the Board of Directors to approve the performance appraisal criteria for the performance period

commencing January 1, 2023 and ending December 31, 2023 and for each performance period
thereafter. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams. Second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell second.
VINCE BUZEK: I've got Riviera-Malpiede as the second. And is there any discussion on this motion? First
Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just wanted to raise the issue that I think we can do better in terms of
our criteria and how we evaluate our CEO. And actually, I've talked with Ms. Johnson about it and hope
that that's a conversation that we'll have in the next year to get her more specificity. I think that there are
some ways we can make this process better. And I hope we'll look at this again. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your comments. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I concur with First Vice Chair Guissinger. I have said through the performance
committee meetings that I think we really need to take a hard look at those criteria and make it a little bit
more-- or a little easier for us to objectively evaluate Ms. Johnson. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, ditto. I voted against the Third Amendment that put this framework in place. And
I still have the concerns and some others too that lead me not to support this. And just making that point
and hoping that you all can carry forward some ideas for improving it, which I think would be better all
around for Ms. Johnson and otherwise. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Any further comments? And Director Cook, are you
going to be a no vote?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I am.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Well, Ms. McManus, can you call roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, Chair. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. We have one absent, two nos, and all else yes. This passes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. That item passes. And comments are well noted, I think. I believe there are many
other Directors that would agree with those. We'll move on to the second recommended action, which is
approval of the General Manager and CEO's 2022 appraisal and 2023 compensation. I'm looking for a
motion for the Board of Directors to approve General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson's attached
performance appraisal for the period of January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, her performance
period and then connection there was to approve a 0% increase in the GM CEO's adjusted base salary
commencing January 1, 2023. Is there a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: Start move, Dishell.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: The motion and the second. How about discussion on this? Director Lewis, please go
ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll actually let Director Dishell go first, and then I'll go after him, if that's all right.
VINCE BUZEK: It's fine with me. Director Dishell, is that OK with you?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. That works for me.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just wanted to share for the benefit of those who were not at the performance
committee, who were not able to attend the last few performance committees, and for the sake of the
record, that there were-- the proposed 0% increase is not a reflection of the Board's appraisal and viewing
towards General Manager and CEO's Debra Johnson's performance. I would encourage those who have
questions about that to go review the transcripts from those prior meetings in which many directors, I
think-- all of them-- most if not all advocating [INAUDIBLE] made similar remarks.

And so just want to, for the benefit the entire Board, summarize that at the performance-committee level
from which this came, there were a number of comments indicating the positive and great work Ms.
Johnson's done in order to bring it forward. I just wanted to note that and so forth. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Dishell. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually had very similar comments. So I would just like to, just as a reminder, and
again, to revisit the meeting that we had previously, that as a committee, we went into deep discussion
and learned that the base salary for our General Manager CEO is 3% below market, and that's with a
cost-of-living adjustment, and 9% below market without the cost-of-living adjustment.
And I know that all of us are aware of what the cost-of-living adjustment is. It's to adjust to the cost-ofliving increases. And so moving forward, I hope we see this as an opportunity to both reevaluate our
evaluative tools as well as to determine as a board if we want to lead in terms of compensation for the
agency. And that's essentially what the Gallagher report provided to us. If it's our desire to be competitive
and to attract and retain top-tier talent, we're really going to have to decide if we were at the top of that,
middle, or if we want to be lagging in that area.
And so I hope that you all can continue that discussion. As I've noted before, the evaluation is in no way
indicative of the work that our General Manager has done during this pandemic, during the financial crisis.
I mean, all of the things with the security and the issues at Union Station with our homeless populations.
We just recently hired our first homeless coordinator. And that is not anything to sneeze at.
And so I just cannot say enough about our General Manager. And if I'm honest and standing in my
integrity, I do have a hard time-- and members of the committee know, and I know there are other
members of the committee, who have a really hard time moving forward with this recommendation of a
0% salary increase, especially understanding that 3% and 9% below the market.
And so I just hope that you all, as you move forward and decide who the Chair of this committee will be
moving forward, that you are committed to leading as an agency in terms of compensation for our
employees. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Lewis. And thanks for your work on the performance committee. I think
most of the members share your sentiment in that regard. So I'll move on to First Vice Chair Guissinger.
You're muted still. Lynn, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. No, I think that I agree with Director Dishell's point and Director Lewis's
listing of many of the accomplishments we've had this year. I think that we could list many others,
including the Zero Fare for Better Air, and all the success we had there.
And part of the reason I'd like to look at the way we do this next year, but I think there's been a lot a lot of
good work. And appreciate all that our CEO has done this year to move us forward. Thanks.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. First Vice Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Chair. I concur with what everyone has said. I did attend
many of the performance committees. And I would like to take this opportunity, I know on behalf of the
Board of Directors, to say, once again, thank you, General Manager, for being the leader in saying to us
the cost of living was so high. I don't want any additional dollars. I'd like to thank you on behalf of the
Board, on behalf of the agency, and on behalf of the community.
Your leadership is astounding to me in terms of looking at the whole community. And I just wanted to say,
on behalf of my community, [SPEAKING SPANISH] because everything you have been working on has
had such a tremendous impact for our communities. And I think your leadership is just stellar. So please
know that I hope, like Director Lewis and others who may not be on the Board next year, that this Board
will take a look at it and work with you diligently to develop a new strategy to move forward.
We're all learning this stuff together. But I'll tell you what. One of the best decisions we've ever made as
an agency was to bring you on as our General Manager. So congratulations on an extraordinary year of
success. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do want to echo many of the comments that have been
made. I think that General Manager CEO Debra Johnson has acquitted herself quite well in terms of
leadership of the RTD, and it is much appreciated. I do want to make one comment for the record,
because the record as it stands would indicate somehow that the salary being paid to the General
Manager is somehow inappropriate as being far below market.
And yet, as Gallagher Benefit Services, Inc, the entity that was retained to conduct a comprehensive and
systematic benchmarking analysis of the total compensation package, concluded that the salary range is
highly competitive. So just for the sake of the record, because there might be an impression left that it is
not a competitive salary, I thought I would make that comment. But I return to my initial thought, which is
that General Manager CEO Johnson has acquitted herself well. And I think we are proceeding along in a
very positive path. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I concur with Director Tisdale. I was very comfortable with where
we stood with the Gallagher report. I had to swallow hard to accept a 0% merit increase. And I think we
were somewhat bound by the criteria that we set forth. And I look forward to working to modify that,
maybe by way of an amendment to make sure that we have a balanced approach to performance next
year.

I really do agree with the accolades that have been expressed for Ms. Johnson's leadership, very much
so. But given the fact that she had the wherewithal and wisdom to negotiate a COLA increase, and that
that has been significant this year, I was comfortable with moving ahead on this course. And I want to
echo Director Rivera-Malpiede's appreciation for Ms. Johnson expressing that she really did not expect to
get any more than the COLA increase this year. So thank you very much for that generous gesture.
That's all I have to say. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Director Rosenthal, you're up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And certainly to echo and build upon what all the other
Directors have been saying, thanks to the General Manager for pushing this agency forward through
difficult times and through the little issues, the medium-sized issues, the big issues that we all faced and
the agency faced and our drivers faced, the community has faced.
And so certainly kudos to her and her team that she has built. And one of the issues that I wanted to
mention is that while it may be a zero increase this year, I didn't want anybody-- to echo everybody else-I didn't want anybody else to think that that was a reflection of her performance and that if we do give a
raise next year, it's not like she did poorly this year.
It's like, no, we're redoing some of the factors that everybody mentioned in how we're doing the
evaluations. And we may well see an increase next year based on performance and of course plus the
inflation numbers as well. And I know that seems to me that with as CEOs, hopefully she'll be around for
a while. But in terms of her career, that this is not to be seen as a negative spot in that and that this is
special circumstances. Thank you. Bye.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Chair. And I'll make it quick. I just wanted to clarify that in our
discussion in the committee that we did learn from that Gallagher Report that our General Manager salary
is 3% below market with the cost of living adjustment and without is 9% below market without. It's not a
reflection of it being a fair salary, but that was just the data that we were provided from our solicitation
from our consultants.
And so I just want to underscore that because one of the things that I understood is this was an
opportunity for us to determine how we would like to move forward as leaders of this agency. Do we want
to lead in terms of the market, or do we want to lag in terms of the market? And so I hope that that
provides a little bit more clarity for the members who didn't have the opportunity to be a part of that
discussion because it was really good information and a really great discussion that we had. Thank you
so much, Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. thank you, Chair. I just wanted to say thank you to Director Lewis for putting out
the call to lead in this area. And figured I would note that at the APTA conference with the Board
members, this was a hot topic, was how to measure CEO performance and evaluate compensation in the
unprecedented times that we're in.
So I would simply say, I think there is an opportunity to lead and reevaluate this. And Director Lewis,
certainly you have my commitment and I know the commitment of many of us, to continue the work and
look at ways to lead and appreciate the call to do so. And likewise, of course, would echo the comments
and thank you to Ms. Johnson for leading us in what is ultimately a very unprecedented and difficult time.
So thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And I'll just make a couple of quick comments. And I think
Director Rivera-Malpiede and I have a kind of unique perspective when it comes to Ms. Johnson, in that
we were Chairs at the time that she was hired and working here and met with her on an at least weekly
basis and have viewed her performance firsthand up close and personal.
And I can attest that I am thrilled that she's with our agency. And she does an excellent job. That being
said, I'm also going to notice that Director Guissinger is now here and Director Broom is now here. Any
other comments? No further comments. I don't see anybody's hands raised. So are there any no votes on
this recommended action?
Great. Seeing none, I believe that passes. Is anybody absent? Is it 15 to 0? Do we have anybody absent
still? I think everybody's here, right? 15-0. Good.
OK. We're moving on to other matters. Are there any other matters to come before the Board at this
special Board meeting? Cool. I see no hands raised. I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved. Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: I hear Lewis has a movement, and Rosenthal is the second. And are there any no votes
on the motion to adjourn? No hands raised. Great. Thanks, everybody. Thanks for your participation and
comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Fabulous.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Good night.

