1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Larry Hoy, District J
Bill James, District A

William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Tom Tobiassen, District F
Jeff Walker, District D
Kathi Williams, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 17, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Gary Gallentine, Bus Operator, 21 years
Daniel Haro, Bus Operator, 29 years
Stephen Pilon, Senior Manager-Facilities, 24 years

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Directors Anderson, Hoy & Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MARCH 27, 2012

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A. Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to Execute
Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA) for the A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station
(DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute Purchase and
Sale Agreements (PSA) for the A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station (DUS) with the
Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) or an affiliated designee in the amount of
$10 million each. It is further recommended that an adjustment to the earnest money
deposits for the cost of asbestos remediation on A and B Blocks be authorized, that RTD
agree to authorize a change order with DUSPA for asbestos remediation and enhanced
building foundations (“underbuild”), that the underbuild cost be in addition to the sales
prices, and that RTD agree to refund the increased cost to USNC for the underbuild on B
Block if it is sold to another party. The Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to execute purchase and sale agreements (PSA’s) in January 2008. The title
company has made a Board resolution a requirement of closing.
The General Manager is further authorized to transfer up to $6 million from the combined
total sales proceeds to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for uses to
include working capital which will be refunded at the close of the project, RTD approved
change orders for asbestos remediation and enhanced foundation work, any costs
associated with other changes and schedule adjustments requested by RTD, and to enter
into any related agreements necessary for dedication or development of roadways,
easements, and rights of way to benefit the DUS Project.
B. Resolution appointing Salaried Employee to Salaried Pension Fund Trustee Board
C. Ticket Vending Machine Upgrade and Replacement and Related Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the upgrade of ticket vending machines (TVM) on the
Southeast Corridor and replacement of TVMs on the Southwest and Central
Corridors.
D. Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Fourth-Year Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s
Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract
18DH016). This contract amendment is for the fourth year of a five year period
of performance. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually. The fourth-year
fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract value to date of
$7,922,000.
E. Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building Improvements
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the General Manager enter into a
contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA) or one or more of its corporate
members for $5 million for the purposes of designing and constructing renovations to

the Denver Union Station (DUS) historic building in advance of RTD and USA signing
a lease. The purpose of this early work agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is
relocated back into DUS to coincide with the opening of the new commuter rail
terminal and termination of the lease at Amtrak’s temporary facility. The source of
funds for the $5 million is a Colorado Department of Transportation FASTER grant
and RTD's associated local match to the grant which was awarded to RTD in early
2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board authorize a transfer of $5 million from unrestricted net assets to fund this
contract. The unrestricted net assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended
Budget by the proceeds of the FASTER grant.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
F. Approval to enter into a FASTER Grant IGA with CDOT for Circulator buses
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve this action to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) to receive the $3.9 Million
FASTER Grant for the purchase of six buses for the Downtown Circulator, with the
$3.9 Million in grant funding being added to the total project budget. The acceptance
of the FASTER Grant requires a local match of $3.9 Million which is included in the
adopted FasTracks financial plan.

G. Recommendation Regarding a Competitive Procurement Phase as a Result of
Evaluation of the I-225 Unsolicited Proposal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the issuance of a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the competitive procurement
of the remaining elements of the 1-225 Corridor. Authorization of this RFP by the RTD
Board of Directors will allow staff to complete development of an RFP that may
accelerate completion of all or portions of the remaining 1-225 Rail Line without
displacing other planned expenditures within RTD adopted FasTracks financial plan.
H. Alameda Station TOD Pilot Project Implementation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to facilitate the development of the Alameda
Station TOD Pilot Project. Such authorization includes all documents necessary to
facilitate the following transactions:
Primary Transaction:
The key elements of the primary transaction with D4 are as follows:
 The sale of 2.987 acres at the Alameda Station (designated as Parcel 1:
Northern Parcel on Exhibit A) to D4, the development entity for Denver
Design Center and the Broadway Marketplace adjacent to the Alameda
Station. The purchase price for the land is $20 per square foot
(approximately $2.583 million, subject to determining exact parcel
dimensions). D4 intends to develop residential apartments on the parcel.
 Deduction from the purchase price for:

o





the costs for the construction of a new transit plaza and related
improvements, including new bus bays;
o
RTD’s share of the costs to extend Cherokee Street between Alaska
and Virginia Avenues including build out to middle of the right-ofway of South Cherokee Street for a bus lane; and
o
the potential costs of environmental remediation on transit plaza and
South Cherokee Street not to exceed $100,000.
Deduction from the purchase price of $305,370, which is the present value
of a 25-year obligation by D4 to maintain and repair the new transit plaza,
including any landscaping and equipment, pursuant to an RTD approved
scope and standards. RTD will grant vendor and signage rights on the new
transit plaza to D4 for the duration of the maintenance obligation.
Grant of access easements at no cost to RTD for routing of buses through
the private streets within the Marketplace.

Final cost figures for the transit project improvements will be determined after
completion of final design through a competitive and negotiated process involving
both D4 and RTD.
South Cherokee:
This action would give authority to negotiate and enter into an agreement with D4
and the City and County of Denver (the City) to convey to the City a new section
of Cherokee Street between Alaska and Virginia Avenues that will be dedicated as
public right of way (designated as Parcel 3: South Cherokee Parcel on Exhibit A).
In addition, this action would give authority to convey a small, nearby parcel of
property to Xcel in exchange for Xcel conveying a small parcel to the City; the
Xcel parcel is needed to build the street to the City’s right-of-way standards.

Option for the Sliver Parcel:
This action would give authority to grant D4 an option to purchase 4.657 acres
south of Virginia Avenue, east of the existing light rail tracks (designated as the
Sliver Parcel in Exhibit A). In exchange for D4 paying $25,000, RTD would grant
D4 a 12-year option for a purchase price based on the appraised fair market value
in 2014. In 2019, a new land value would be established by an appraisal.
Contribution to the Drainage Project:
Finally, this action would give authority to negotiate an arrangement whereby the
Broadway Marketplace (BMP) Metro District (Metro District) would be reimbursed
$700,000 from the future sale of the Bus Barn Site (shown on Exhibit B) to a
developer or if RTD develops the property itself. In addition, RTD will grant an
easement for the storm water pipe to the BMP across the bus barn property, at no
charge to the Metro District.
XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Contract Negotiations--DUS Negotiations

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

XV.

ADJOURN

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

