1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 17, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present at roll call. Director Anderson participated by
phone.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Dave Genova presented Stephen Pilon, Senior Manager-Facilities, who has been an RTD
employee for 24 years. Dave Genova stated the retirement of Stephen is bittersweet.
Stephen begun his employment with RTD in 1988 and has been promoted through the
ranks. Dave shared that Stephen leaves behind a great legacy and it has been both a
pleasure and honor to have worked with him. He will be missed.
Stephen responded by stating he will never forget his 24 years at RTD. He considers it a
great privilege to have worked for RTD and honors such a great staff. He acknowledged
General Manager, Phil Washington stating he has worked with many General Managers
before but has never worked for such a great one as Phil. He stated that Phil not only has
a concern for the community but also the employees and it has been a great privilege to
have worked under him. It has been a privilege to work with Dave Genova also.
Chair Kemp acknowledged the presence of Stephen’s wife who was there in support of
his retirement and presentation. Chair Kemp stated that it also takes the understanding,
flexibility and support of loved ones at home to work as diligently as Stephen has.
Bruce Abel and Mike Gil presented Daniel Haro, Bus Operator who has been an RTD
employee for 29 years. Mike stated that Daniel was a great, outstanding employee, very
dependable and always willing to go above and beyond. He is known here at RTD and at
home as the “fix it man electronically” because of his skills and ability to fix anything
broken. Mike thanked Daniel for his hard work and dedication to RTD. He will be missed.

Daniel responded stating he may be a man of many skills but not a man of many words
but thank you.
Chair Kemp acknowledged the presents of Daniel’s family who was there in support of his
retirement and presentation. He thanked them for all of their understanding and support.
Bruce Abel and Mike Gil presented Gary Gallentine, Bus Operator who has been employed
with RTD for 21 years. Mike shared that Gary was graciously opinionated, very vocal but
with class and respect who was always smiling. Mike acknowledged Gary’s wife and
thanked her for her support over the years.
Gary responded saying thank you.
Chair Kemp acknowledged the presence of Gary’s wife Geri and thanked her for her
support.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION AWARD-AMERICAN PUBLIC WORKS ASSOCIATION
Bob Manwaring of the American Public Works Association presented a special award to
the West Corridor Public Information Team particularly Brenda Tierney in recognition of
her excellent efforts, and as a team for their outstanding work on the West Corridor Line.
They were selected and voted on by membership of the Colorado Chapter. A few of the
accomplishments were read from the application submitted. The team held more than 100
Public Presentations, held 470 external meetings, distributed more than 6,200 Fact
Sheets, more than 50 Press Releases, 12,000 door hangers, sent Construction News
Letters to 5,000 subscribers on a monthly basis and sent about 50,000 emails all during
these construction activities. As a result of the scope of the project, the team received
more than 4,000 correspondences from the public in which Brenda and her team
responded to. Those statistics measure the true effectiveness of the team, great job!
Congratulations.
Director Cohen shared that not only is the team exceptional but as individuals they are all
fabulous. Congratulations to the team. It is very well deserved.
Director Malpiede dittoed Cohen and Bob Manwaring on what a great team the West
Corridor Informational team is, adding that they are stellar with their community outreach
skills. She offered a special thank you.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Councilman Chris Nevitt stated that he hopes the RTD Board of Directors will approve the
Alameda Station project. He conveyed thanks and gratitude for stepping up and working with
the private sector and for sharing the same dreams and goals for the transit community. We
not only want it known as a great transit system service but also as a powerful catalyst. He
commented that right now, the transit stop is like a dumpster behind the K-mart store. He
acknowledged that this is a very complicated project and that RTD is not in it alone. The
transit developers, the City and County of Denver, to name a few, are all behind the project
and have contributed at least 13 million dollars. This project will bring new life to this
neighborhood that is run down (i.e. more jobs, more homes, and more retailers to the area).
It will increase property value and increase ridership participation which will in return increase
revenue. He thanked RTD for being in partnership.
Chair Kemp thanked Councilman Nevitt for coming down and sharing and for all of his hard
work.

Paul Ryan, City & County of Denver Mayor’s staff, spoke on behalf of Mayor Michael
Hancock. Paul requested to the Board that they approve the recommendation of the General
Manager and his staff to move forward on the TOD project and in doing so it will help the
City and County of Denver implement other projects and plans currently in discussion. Paul
Ryan requested that the following note from Mayor Hancock be read into record. “Chair
Kemp and RTD Board – I wanted to send a note of support for the Alameda TOD Pilot
Project. This project has been in the pipeline for quite some time and represents a true PublicPrivate Partnership. Please count us in for future support”, Signed Michael.
Chris Waggett, CEO of D4 Urban, LLC presented an outline summary to the RTD Board of
Directors regarding the Alameda Station P&S Agreement/Option Agreement and Development
Agreement in which all Directors present were provided a copy of the outline. D4 thanked the
Board for the opportunity to speak. Chris briefly reiterated some of the comments and
concerns addressed by the Board during the P&D meeting held on April 10, 2012 which
included the quality of the Staff report - D4 echoes the Boards sentiment as universally by
Directors expressed; the Pros of the transaction – D4 echoes the Boards sentiment as
expressed by supportive Directors; and last but not least the Cons of the transaction – D4
wishes to address the sentiments expressed by the Directors having concerns, notably four
key matters that reflect the negative comments: (1) The financial terms; (2) The risks; (3)
The Partnership with the City/BMP Metropolitan District and D4; and (4) What’s in it for us?
“RTD Benefits”.
D4 has personally reached out to all the Directors, inviting an opportunity to meet and
interact with D4 to understand the Company, the nexus with the Denver Design District
(DDD), the General Development Plan (GDP), and the specifics of this initial Alameda Station
TOD Pilot Project and the benefits to RTD. To date, many of the Directors have engaged in a
conversation for which D4 is grateful.
Chris shared that on February 6, 2012 during the Denver City council meeting, Council
approved the Regional Drainage project 12:1. The Mayor’s Head of Projects, Diane Barrett,
described the project as having inherent” synergy and serendipity” by virtue of the alignment
and benefits accruing to all parties. This is reinforced by the RTD’s own Pilot Program
Recommendations and Pilot Project objective. He Also noted that without the nexus between
the City’s Regional Drainage project (aka “enabling works”), RTD’s Alameda Station site and
the adjoining Broadway marketplace/DDD property, together with a common, unifying
developer of D4, the project is undevelopable unless RTD’s conditions are relaxed or deleted
(as they relate to the Pilot Project objective to achieve Good TID principles and addressing
TAC/Operations, together with the Approved DDD-GDP + Design Guidelines). Furthermore,
the Regional Drainage Project is only possible if the BMP-Metropolitan District No. 1 is aligned
with the developer of Alameda Station to create the physical connectivity through the use of
Eminent Domain (approval already granted by the City 2/6/12).
Chris read RTD’s TOD Mission into record, “Facilitate TOD opportunities that increase
ridership or enhance transit investments throughout the District through station design and
close coordination with local jurisdictions and developers”. He also shared that an analysis
follows of RTD’s TOD Pilot Program Recommendations from Dec. 2010 and the proposal
being considered at the Alameda Station Pilot Project.
David Tryba of Tryba Architects distributed maps of the existing site of the proposed
Alameda Station and shared briefly the benefits of the project, noting that the project will
allow commuters to go from one side of the neighborhood to the other side for shopping and
other business dwellings which currently now is a challenge. David concluded his summary of
the project which included going over some of the current and future plans of the Alameda

station.
Dan Cohen, BMP Metro District, stated that he was available to answer any questions the
Board has regarding the Alameda Station. No questions were submitted to Dan.
John Riecke of Denver expressed a concern regarding the fare to travel from one side of
town to the other (downtown to Park Meadows) stating that essentially it would be a
roundtrip of about $32 dollars at the rates currently in place and questioned if RTD was
actually losing money due to the high fares. He suggested to the Board that they consider
reducing or making an adjustment to the high fare cost for long distance traveling.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Daly indicated a typo on page 14 regarding the FAA Committee Meeting Minutes
held April 10, 2012 where Director Walker questioned if it was anticipated using the
TVM’s in “Gold Mine”. It should read Gold Lines. This has been corrected.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley stated that the General Manager Oversight & Performance
Committee is composed of six (6) members from the Board of Directors listing himself,
Malpiede, Tobiassen, Cohen, Daly, and Anderson who meet regularly in reference to the
General Manager. All members were present with Anderson via phone. Chairperson
Bagley reported that they will bring before the full Board within the next 2-4 weeks
contract discussions for the General Manager whose contract expires December 31,
2012.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MARCH 27, 2012
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the
adoption of the March 27, 2012 Regular
Board Meeting Minutes as written and
circulated.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14

votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Anderson was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp stated that Staff is following up on the Fiscal Sustainability items for revenue
enhancements/cost reduction proposed by Deadwyler and Williams.
Please note a series of West Bus Service Change Hearings that have been scheduled
through April and listed on the Two Week Calendar.
Upcoming Events
 Friday, April 27, 2012 Ground Breaking for I-225 @ Yale Bridge Site
 May 4th – 9th, 2012 International Bus Roadeo and Bus and Paratransit Conference
in Long Beach, CA. Chair Kemp encourages as many of the Board members that
can participate to go.
 May 9th – 11th, 2012 WTS Conference – Advancing Women in Transportation
being held here in Denver. Chair Kemp states that it will be a very worthwhile
event to attend.
Other Matters
Chair Kemp and General Manager Washington traveled to Dallas Fort Worth for the BNSF
Conference. Also in attendance was Tom Clark of the Denver Chamber. It was a very
encouraging meeting and BNSF is willing to work with and support RTD. It was discussed
what’s going on now with RTD and how they can be of assistance. They also had a
meeting with Mr. Carl Ice, CEO, and his senior staff and that meeting was a very good
meeting as well.
General Manager Washington dittoed Chair Kemp that the meeting was encouraging and
productive. The next steps will be for Chair Kemp and General Manager Washington to
have a discussion to decide the appropriate time to go to the ballot.
Chair Kemp read into record the following FasTracks Decision Process Chair Update:
We took a big step last month – approving a FasTracks plan that is fiscally responsible
and incorporates an effective transit investment strategy for the Northwest Corridor.
The proposal included a financing package that assumes voters will approve an additional
increase for the FasTracks sales tax in November. As I think you all concur, the plan we
approved last month demonstrates our unflagging support for completing the full
FasTracks system as soon as possible.
However, there are many unanswered questions about the details of the plan.
We need a realistic assessment as to what work needs to be undertaken in order to
answer all the questions and to uncover issue we may have not thought of yet, with
accompanying estimated timeline.
I have asked staff to focus next week’s Study Session on helping us to evaluate the
option of a 2012 tax increase election and the alternative direction they would propose

taking if we decide to forgo the 2012 election. Given all of the speculation and
discussion going on around the region, I also have asked staff to invite a few key
partners, representing business and community interests, to
next week’s Study Session for a conversation with the Board and obtain their
perspectives. We have a solemn responsibility to our constituents to be thoughtful and
thorough in our deliberations about when to ask taxpayers for more money. I look forward
to what promised to be an important discussion for this Board and another change to
demonstrate our collaborative leadership as we shepherd one of the
region’s most critical infrastructure investment.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
General Manager Washington gave a brief update on the following items.


Upcoming BRT Vehicle Display - a hand out pictures of NABI 60 ft BRT’s was
given to the Board stating that in late May or early June there will be a bus similar
to one of these buses parked outside of RTD and around the region for the
community to see.
Director Tobiassen stated that he is excited about the 60 ft BRT’s and they are
similar to those we use on Colfax. Are we considering using a 60 ft BRT along the
Colfax corridor to improve efficiency? General Manager stated that it is something
they will consider and look into.



Agreement to move AMTRAK back into DUS - An agreement has been reached for
space with Amtrak to move Amtrak back into DUS; still need to negotiate the
lease.



I-225 Segment #1 Groundbreaking – On April 27, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. the IMA will
have its Groundbreaking and the next day April 28, 2012 the Yale Bridge will be
coming down. In regards to the I-225 proposal, it will be discussed May 1, 2012.



Graduation of First Multi-Agency Exchange (MAX) Program participants – Between 8
to 10 middle managers will graduate in Dallas after moving around and learning
different aspects and best practices within different agencies. Following that all the
General Managers will meet to see what can be improved. This has been a very
successful program.
Director Daly asked how far down the line in rank will the Multi-Agency go. General
Manager Washington stated that as of right now it’s just middle managers but to keep
in mind that this is only the first of five different prong exchanges and he does
anticipate other ranks being included at some point.



X.

Other Matters – General Manager Washington briefed the Board on a report of a
stabbing near the Auraria/Colfax Rail Station where the victim was stabbed across the
street and made his way over to the station for assistance. The victim was in stable
condition and the suspect had been apprehended. An email was sent to staff and
Board members. Any additional information will be passed along.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A-E on the unanimous consent. Director

Deadwyler requested that item E, Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvements, be removed from unanimous consent.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion that
the Board of Directors adopts the
unanimous consent agenda, items A
through D excluding item E.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Anderson was absent.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

A. Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to Execute
Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA) for the A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station
(DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute Purchase and
Sale Agreements (PSA) for the A and B Blocks at Denver Union Station (DUS) with the
Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) or an affiliated designee in the amount of
$10 million each. It is further recommended that an adjustment to the earnest money
deposits for the cost of asbestos remediation on A and B Blocks be authorized, that RTD
agree to authorize a change order with DUSPA for asbestos remediation and enhanced
building foundations (“under build”), that the under build cost be in addition to the sales
prices, and that RTD agree to refund the increased cost to USNC for the under build on
B Block if it is sold to another party. The Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to execute purchase and sale agreements (PSA’s) in January 2008. The title
company has made a Board resolution a requirement of closing.
The General Manager is further authorized to transfer up to $6 million from the combined
total sales proceeds to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for uses to
include working capital which will be refunded at the close of the project, RTD approved
change orders for asbestos remediation and enhanced foundation work, any costs
associated with other changes and schedule adjustments requested by RTD, and to enter
into any related agreements necessary for dedication or development of roadways,
easements, and rights of way to benefit the DUS Project.
B. Resolution appointing Salaried Employee to Salaried Pension Fund Trustee Board
C. Ticket Vending Machine Upgrade and Replacement and Related Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the upgrade of ticket vending machines (TVM) on the

Southeast Corridor and replacement of TVMs on the Southwest and Central
Corridors.
D. Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Fourth-Year Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s
Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract
18DH016). this contract amendment is for the fourth year of a five year period
of performance. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually. The fourth-year
fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a total contract value to date of
$7,922,000.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
E. Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building Improvements
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the General Manager enter into a
contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA) or one or more of its corporate
members for $5 million for the purposes of designing and constructing renovations to
the Denver Union Station (DUS) historic building in advance of RTD and USA signing
a lease. The purpose of this early work agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is
relocated back into DUS to coincide with the opening of the new commuter rail
terminal and termination of the lease at Amtrak’s temporary facility. The source of
funds for the $5 million is a Colorado Department of Transportation FASTER grant
and RTD's associated local match to the grant which was awarded to RTD in early
2011.
It is further recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board authorizes a
transfer of $5 million from unrestricted net assets to fund this contract. The
unrestricted net assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended Budget by the
proceeds of the FASTER grant.
PRIMARY MOTION: Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the contract award for Union
Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvements.
Director Walker seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

Director Deadwyler expressed concerns
around this item and requested more time
to discuss the DBE/SBE numbers which
have not yet been provided. Marla Lien
commented on the statement saying this
action has previously been approved by
the Board last month; this was just the
reinstatement of that approval dealing

just with the State grant money. Director
Deadwyler agreed that it was previously
approved but still do not have the
numbers to move forward. General
Manager Washington explained that the
action was only for the $5 million with a
separate goal attached and the remaining
contract would have the separate piece
and this ONLY applies to the FASTER
Grant and does not affect to anything
else. Director Deadwyler stated that on
page 47 of the packet it does not sound
like it’s separate. General Manager
Washington explained that there was no
DBE goal. DBE was Federal funds for a
project and SBE was local funding.
Director Tayer commented that he
supported the action but would like
clarification regarding the DBE/SBE
questioning is this just a piece that falls
under the umbrella of SBE. General
Manager Washington clarified again that
SBE is local funding ONLY and DBE is
federal. They are two separate
components of that goal. It is similar to a
change
order.
General
Manager
Washington acknowledges that we still
need to set a specific number within the
range for SBE but this action today has
nothing to do with that. Director Tayer
reiterates that he will support the project
but does agree with some of the same
concerns and confusion addressed by
Deadwyler and suggest that maybe the
statement could be amended to reflect in
better detail. Carla Perez stated that a
number for the SBE goal has been set as
of yesterday and it was set at 20%.
Director Malpiede shared the same
frustration as Deadwyler and believes
there needs to be clarity in the written
statement.
Director McMullen states that the Board
needs to brush up on the definitions,
differences, and understanding of DBE
vs. SBE and believes that would eliminate
the confusion that some of the Directors
have. DBE follows Federal requirements

and are federally funded, SBE is locally
funded. The project in question is not a
federally funded program and pointed out
that he too has some concern but
supports the project and encourages his
colleagues to vote in favor of.
Chair Kemp asked Director Deadwyler if
her questions were answered to move
forward. Director Deadwyler stated she
still felt it should go back to the
committee.
SECONDARY MOTION:

Director Deadwyler made a secondary
motion to remove this item from the
agenda and send back to the Planning
and Development Committee.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 2 in
favor (Deadwyler, Malpiede) and 12
Against (Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker, and Williams).
Director Anderson was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the secondary
motion FAILED.

VOTE ON
THE PRIMARY
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 2
against (Deadwyler, Malpiede). Director
Anderson was absent.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

General Manager Washington requested that the minutes of this meeting note that the
FASTER Grant is a state grant. There are no federal funds in the $5 million grant
funded contract or in the historical station redevelopment. There is a SBE, not a DBE
goal for the project.

F.

Approval to enter into a FASTER Grant IGA with CDOT for Circulator buses
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve this action to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) to receive the $3.9 Million FASTER Grant for

the purchase of six buses for the Downtown Circulator, with the $3.9 Million in grant funding
being added to the total project budget. The acceptance of the FASTER Grant requires a
local match of $3.9 Million which is included in the adopted FasTracks financial plan
MOTION:
Director Bagley made the motion to
approve the action to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Colorado Department of Transportation.
Director James seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against.
Director Anderson was absent and
Director Cohen left early.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

G. Recommendation Regarding a Competitive Procurement Phase as a Result of
Evaluation of the I-225 Unsolicited Proposal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the issuance of a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the competitive procurement
of the remaining elements of the 1-225 Corridor. Authorization of this RFP by the RTD
Board of Directors will allow staff to complete development of an RFP that may
accelerate completion of all or portions of the remaining 1-225 Rail Line without
displacing other planned expenditures within RTD adopted FasTracks financial plan.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
authorize the issuance of a Request for
Proposal (RFP) for the competitive
procurement.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Anderson (via phone) stated that
this is a very important project and
believes it is a good thing. If she was
here she would vote in support of the
project. Director Deadwyler stated she
wasn’t present last week and wants to
know how far down I-25 does it go, or if
was there any additional information
given. Chair Kemp stated that we are
only approving that it goes out for bid
and then it will come back to the Board

for
discussion.
General
Manager
Washington stated that is correct, it will
be back before the Board on May 1,
2012, adding that it was reported to the
Board that the proposal submitted by
Kiewit does have merit and it is a
confidential proposal and in crafting the
RFP we will not be specific in regards to
what is in the solicited proposal. This
request is merely asking to put a RFP
out. Director Deadwyler stated it seems
unfair and questions if we are showing
favoritism to Kiewit. General Manager
Washington stated we have revised our
unsolicited policy to allow for a very very
competitive environment. If we were to
show favoritism to in this case Kiewit
then we would be sole sourcing this
thing. We are not sole sourcing it; we are
putting out a very generic proposal for
people to bid on to tell us what they can
do. That is the whole nature of an
unsolicited
proposal
environment.
Director O’Boyle stated that he objected
to moving this forward last week and
asked if any of the Board Members have
received any additional information as it
pertains to this proposal. Chair Kemp
stated not that he is aware; no other
Board Member has received any
additional information. Chair Kemp stated
that due to the nature of the
confidentiality there would not have been
any additional information given. Director
McMullen urged the Board to vote for
this project and stated we can only be
hopeful that this works out. He is looking
forward to the additional information that
will be provided at the appropriate time
and
he
told
General
Manager
Washington, he hopes there will be
proof.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0

against. Director Anderson was absent
and Director Cohen had left early.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

H. Alameda Station TOD Pilot Project Implementation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to facilitate the development of the Alameda
Station TOD Pilot Project.
MOTION:
Director James made the motion
to authorize the General Manager
and/or his designee to negotiate
and execute all documents
necessary to facilitate the
development of the Alameda
Station TOD Pilot Project.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.
DISCUSSION:

Director Walker indicated he
would abstain citing a conflict of
interest.
Director Anderson reiterated that
if she were here she would vote
for this project because this is a
great way to build communities
and cities. She commended
everyone for all their hard work
and dedication in making this
Alameda Project work. Director
Tobiassen asked what the
results of the soil testing from
last week were. Dan Cohen
stated that we have been given
a clean bill via verbal
communication. Director
Deadwyler stated again that she
was not present last week for
this discussion but that in
reading it seems a bit risky.
Director McMullen briefly went
over some of the key points
from last week and again
encouraged the Board to vote
yes on this project. Director
Bagley gave four key points to
the benefits of this project and

stated that the Board must
support this project to the
fullest. Director Malpiede
expressed some of the same
concerns Deadwyler addressed.
In addition she stated that she
is insulted by the comments
about this neighborhood, stating
that we need to be more
considerate and respectful when
describing others’ communities.
Director O’Boyle expressed that
he may not share the same
ecstasy as some of the other
Board Members as it pertains to
the project; however he shares
the same mission which is to
provide transportation to the
community. He believes the
TOD project will increase
ridership. Director O’Boyle
reiterated his opinion stated last
week but supports the project
because he can see it from a
different perspective, the whole
picture. Director Deadwyler
reiterated she just doesn’t see
the value. Director Tayer
reiterated his discussion from
last week but stated he will vote
for this project to move forward.
Several other comments were
reiterated by members of the
Board. In closing Chair Kemp
stated that as shown this is a
very diverse and opinionated
Board and every one’s
statements, comments, and
concerns are respected and
noted. We all share the same
passion though it may be in
different areas. It is all done out
of the passion of our hearts but
we need to make sure that as
we make decisions that we view
all the aspects of the project and
weigh if the benefits outweigh
the risk. He believes in this case
that it does. Chair Kemp
encouraged the members of the
Board to vote for the project.

Chair Kemp also stated that he
supports Director Malpiede in
the comments made about being
sensitive, considerate and
respectful of one another.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken
with (9) votes in favor (Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen,
and Williams), (3) against
(Deadwyler, O’Boyle, and
Malpiede and (1) Abstain
(Walker).
Directors Anderson and Cohen
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

XIV.

OLD BUSINESS
Director Malpiede states there are more WIN flyers for the orientation if anyone wants one to
pass out along their communities.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp acknowledges Sylvia Francis as being selected as the Mid Manager for the
Salaried Employee Pension Trust Board. Director O’Boyle shared that the selection committee
met on several occasions and solicited self nomination. We were gratified to have received
about 10 individuals willing to make a difference for all employees. The committee
unanimously selected Sylvia Francis. Thank you and congratulations.
Sylvia responded saying thank you.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp requested a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e) Contract Negotiations--DUS Negotiations.

MOTION:

Director McMullen made the
motion to enter into executive
session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) Contract NegotiationsDUS Negotiations.

Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion PASSED.

The meeting adjourned into Executive Session at 8:10 p.m.
XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 9:00 P.M.

Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Assistant (Temporary)

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, April 17, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams

District I
District O
District H
District M
District C
District J
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Lorraine Anderson (Appeared by phone)

District L

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Lacy Bell
L. Skip Brown
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Libby Cox
J. Donovan
Martell Dyles
Sherry Ellebracht

Sylvia Francis
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Gary Gallentine

Doug MacLeod
Anthony Mendez
Carla Perez
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Walt Stringer
Brenda Tierney

Pauletta Tonilas
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Marie Washington
Phil Washington
Daniel Haro & Family

OTHERS PRESENT: Laura Aldrete – Parsons Brinckerholf, Steve Barlow, Mac Callison, Frank Cannon –
USNC, Dan Cohen – D4 Urban LLC, Jeri Gallentine, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Floyd Jones, Matthew
Kuchar, Tim Maclan – Kiewit, Herman Malone, Bob Mainwaring, Councilman Nevitt, Gene Putman –
Transportation Manager, John Riecke, Terry Reiter – CCD, Paul Ryan – Director of Regional Affairs, City &
County of Denver, Jeanne Shreve – Adams County, Alvertis Simmons, Alexandra Storms, Chris Taylor –
Spectrum, David Tryba – Tryba Architects, Chris Waggett – CEO D4 Urban LLC
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

