Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 1 of 9

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 6, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
April 5, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Director’s Deadwyler, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Boerma, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin
Flynn, Marcia Fraley, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Jason Longsdorf, Pat McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Ana Mostaccero, Andy Mutz, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue,
Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Scott Roberts, Teresa Sedmak, Jannette
Scarpino, Prunaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Greg Straight,
Walt Stringer, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Del Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

K. Burass-CAC, Mac Callison–City of Aurora, Frank Cannon–USNC, Alan
Canter, Jenny Clark–DUSPA, Dana Crawford–Oxford, Melissa Doal, R.
Falkenberg, David Gandesa, Gilberta, Jerry Glick-DUSPA, Dan Guimond–
EPS, Todd Langorsh, Chris Leutzinger–EPS, Daryl Kinton, Herman
Malone, T.C. Martin–DTCG, Aaron Miripd–Urban Land Conservancy, L.
Nelson, Stuart Ohlson–OSIG, L. O’Kelley–USA, Jim Paulmeno–
CDOT/FasTracks, George S.-DRCOG, Ken Schroeppel-USA, M. Salzman,
J. Salzman, John Shaw, President-McWhinney, Jeb Sloan–Baker, John
West–DTCG, Martin Willie–USNC, and Bob Wilson.
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.
Director Bagley indicated there would be a change in the agenda, and the
first item for discussion would be the DUS Historic Building
Option/Project updates.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 2 of 9

I.

Updates


DUS Historic Building Option
Bill Sirois teed up this item and introduced members of the expert panel who would
join him later in the discussion. The expert panel members were John Shaw, Larry
Nelson, and Bruce Alexander. Jerry Glick represented the stakeholders group.
 Bill Sirois indicated that the project summary was from the past 7-8
months of compiling information and looking at future uses of historic
Union Station. Union Station will need to be considered a Real Estate
asset which will allow RTD to figure out how to proceed best.
Community objectives and criteria summary focus on 3 points: Making
sure that the building is active,
 Historical Integrity is maintained,
 The building is Self Sufficient.
The committee looked at various process alternatives which included Competitive
RFP Process, Extend contract with USNC, or Make needed Amtrak improvements
only, and defer other improvements to development partner selection.
The staff process recommendation included these steps:
1. Proceed with RFQ and subsequent RFP with a request for innovative
ideas to address funding gap and development constraints.
2. In addition to evaluation criteria and panel participants, RFQ should
specifically disclose financial and development constraints, re-use
analysis results and RTD priorities and evaluation criteria to generate the
most serious and thoughtful responses.
3. Prepare analysis documentation for FTA/other review in the interim if
source for Federal funds is identified.
4. Based upon number of responses and/or information received addressing
requests for information in #1 above, decide whether RTD interests are
sufficiently met to continue with RFP process.
5. Develop backup plan for building interim re-use and protocol for
continuing ultimate re-use effort as needed.

A major observation made by this expert panel had to do with DUS financial
constraints. In general the more restrictions placed on control of the building will result
in less likely ability to garner financial interest and therefore potential developer
responses.
Bill Sirois also shared that the DUS building had been excluded from the EIS studies
that had been previously done. They have since captured a lot of information that can
be used for documentation of the process should the Board decide to pursue Federal
funding which would require an EIS analysis.
Director Bagley noted that it was very important to have an expert panel present and
invited the panel to participate in the discussion.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 3 of 9

Bruce Alexander explained that the goal regarding Union Station was the viability
options while protecting RTD, the owner. Traffic flow does not directly move to or
though the space, funds are not currently available to do all necessary improvements,
and various uses are somewhat difficult due to historic constraints. However, others
uses such as Hotel, Office, and Retail space were viable options.
John Shaw highlighted that in excess of $20 million dollars, and only 47,000 square
feet of leasable space, focus needed to be on future use of the space. Special
consideration needs to focus on leases and how the space is used. Pedestrians pass
around, but not through. This is not a heavy traffic area and whatever use selected will
need to supplant and draw people to the space. Buses should re-enforce the building
but they currently do not. Mr. Shaw considers this a fairly unfriendly pedestrian
environment.
Larry Nelson added that Union Station is the key to the future success of Lower
Downtown.
Director Malpiede asked if the Panel could explain the Pros and Cons of all the options
available. John Alexander noted that Office space was available, but limited. Retail
space would work, but there would be no guarantee to traffic flow, and a lot of tenant
improvement funds would be required. A hotel would not work due to the costs unless
it had a sister/partner hotel nearby. Open space, such as a museum would not be cost
effective either.
Jerry Glick from the stakeholder group indicated that the building is very difficult to
figure out, and the stakeholders agreed with the recommendations of the expert panel.
Director Cohen noted that Union Station is said to only have 46,000 square feet but
documentation shows 56,000. John Alexander explained that usable/leasable space is
46,000. Director Cohen then asked how much space Union Station needs to make it a
viable space. Jerry Glick indicated that the space that is available can attract people, it
is just a matter of making it a “destination space”, which would make the building
successful.
Director Brohl asked what it meant when it was noted that the building was not
environmentally cleared, and if that will need to be done. Bill Sirois explained that
Federal Funds were not expected, so it was not put on the list to be examined. It will
not need to be cleared and will not affect any construction timeline.
Director Brohl also inquired about the relationship with USNC and if any conflicts would
exist between their contract with DUSPA and the targeted time period for changes in
the DUS building to accommodate future uses. Are they eligible to bid? Bill Sirois and
Jerry Glick responded these are mutually exclusive relationships and USNC would be
encouraged to bid.
Director Daly asked for a clarification by John Shaw of what he meant when he stated

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 4 of 9

“this was an unfriendly environment.” John responded the plaza was not friendly.
Director Daly also inquired about the financial constraints. Bill Sirois responded it has
to do with using the building as collateral and the desire not to put RTD in an
uncomfortable financial position in case of default.
All of the panelists agreed that it is important that traffic activation needs to be on the
first floor as this could determine the financial success of the building. This building
needs to be self-sufficient. Right now RTD’s cost for maintaining this building (cost of
doing nothing) is around $1M. Any plan that is pursued for the use of that building will
need to cover costs, add value to the development that is occurring around it, as well
as retain the historical importance of Denver Union Station. Creative RFP responses are
encouraged.
Director Bagley noted that this item was not an action item, therefore did not require
any action from the Board. Union Station is the hub of our FasTracks program, and is
extremely valuable.
A copy of the DUS Historic Building future use is available with the minutes in the
Board office.


DUS Project Update

Bill Mosher, DUSPA, noted that as of February 28, 2011 they are at 34.4% into this
project and have spent $126 Million into the project. The Light Rail station is nearly
complete with only lighting remaining. This facility should be open and running
sometime in August. The remaining improvement for 2011 is Wynkoop Plaza. Bill
Mosher stated the critical path for the entire project goes through the bus box
structure. The pressing issue is to get AMTRAK back in the station by 2014.
Director Daly asked for Bill Mosher to comment on the earlier statement that Plazas are
not friendly. Bill Mosher responded that the balance of attractive and usable must be a
major function of the plaza design. It is designed to be pedestrian friendly to attract the
public.The final design push for Wynkoop Plaza will be in the next 30 days, and we will
receive more public input then. He welcomes the opportunity for further dialogue with
John Shaw around the design and to better understand his concerns.
Director Bagley indicated that since the Board has 4 new members, the Board should
plan a site tour in the latter part of May to see progress on the project
II. Recommended Action
Director Bagley indicated that both Agreements will be discussed at the same time
since they are similar in nature.
Bill Sirois stated what they were really looking for are cooperative letters of agreements
between RTD at the Yale and Alameda Stations with potential for development. The
developers will do their due diligence using their own financing to determine best site

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 5 of 9

use but needs reassurance from RTD we will not pull the rug from them while they are
in their exploration/discovery process.
Committee Chair Bagley invited the developers, Chris, George Thorne and Aaron to
share a few words pertaining to their plans. The developers applauded RTD for their
willingness to engage with developers to make transit oriented communities happen.
These sites need to be assembled and planned. RTD needs to be a piece of the puzzle
Aaron also shared that he represented Urban Land Conservancy, a nonprofit, that
isinstrumental in identifying and funding properties such as schools, housing, land, etc
around TOD sites. He thinks this is great synergy and can be used as a model for other
future development efforts. Chris spoke to his efforts along the Denver Design District
(Alameda) and talked about the value of this TOD/TOC proposition.


Agreement for the Master Planning of property in the Yale Station area at E. Yale
Avenue/Yale Circle, Denver, Colorado

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation
District and the Yale TOD Partners for the purpose of developing Transit-Oriented
Master Plan for the Yale Station area that would include parcels of land currently
owned by Koelbel and Company, Mile High Development and the Urban Land
Conservancy. The agreement will provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time
not to exceed twelve months and will further provide that the masterplanning process
will be at the sole cost and expense of the Yale TOD Partners.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson asked could the value to
RTD be spelled out more directly. Bill Sirois
noted that the development company will
be spending their own money regarding
master planning. The value to us is moving
to something beyond a Park-N-Ride, with
the ultimate being a long term agreement
exchanging property and development.
General Manager Washington added that
this would also include additional transit
ridership. The vitality in and around the
area would help us in the long run.
Director Brohl inquired as to how this
relates to our TOD policy. These
agreements seem to correspond with that

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 6 of 9

policy, and she is unsure as to why these
are treated separate or need to come back
to the Board for approval. Bill Sirois noted
that these agreements are in line with the
TOD policy. With these agreements, we are
indicating that we are open to a Park-NRide Station with development versus a
Park-N-Ride Station only. The TOD Policy
addresses items that the development
company must address.
Director Tobiassen pointed out that in the
article on National Public Radio, these
developers were called out for their
approach to TOD.
Vote on
Motion:


The Motion Passed Unanimously

Agreement for the Exclusive Cooperative Planning related to RTD property adjacent
to the Alameda Station Light Rail Station, Cherokee and Alaska Place, Denver,
Colorado.

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation
District and D4 Urban LLC, a Colorado limited liability company for the purpose of the
creation of specific plans for the coordinated development of the property owned and
property currently leased by RTD and the approximately 60 acres of real property
adjacent to or nearby the RTD Alameda tracts owned by D4 Urban, LLC. The
agreement will provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time not to exceed twelve
months and will further provide that the creation of more specific plans for the
coordinated development of the RTD Alameda property and the D4 property will be at
the sole cost and expense of D4 Urban LLC.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The Motion Passed Unanimously

Establish Policy for RTD Competitive Grants

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt a policy that specifies that all future grant funds be used for already
planned base system projects, such as capital improvements or service increases. In
the case of FasTracks projects, from this point forward, all grant funds should be

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 7 of 9

applied against the applicable corridor budget to fill the FasTracks funding gap.
Adoption of this policy will require staff to:
a. pursue any grant funds that can help close the FasTracks program funding gap
and account for those funds as such;
b. assure that any grant funds awarded to a FasTracks project will be applied to
that project’s base budget wherever possible, not for enhancements or out-ofscope items;
c. for the Base System, advance at least one of the following needs: operational
improvements, cost effectiveness, or safety/security improvement;
d. retain sole discretion in determining which grant opportunities satisfy the criteria
listed in (a and b) above. However RTD staff, at its sole discretion, may pursue
grants for enhancements so long as that grant source cannot be used to help
close the FasTracks funding gap.
Additionally, it is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors direct staff to:
a. Case #1: If stakeholders do not agree that DRCOG’s $60 million Second
Commitment in Principle can be used to fund the existing FasTracks project
scope, then RTD will request that DRCOG require each corridor’s stakeholders
to apply for the designated $60 million Second Commitment in Principle on their
own, thereby providing the stakeholders more flexibility on how these funds are
spent and removing RTD from the responsibility of coordinating stakeholder
consensus;
b. Case #2: Allow an exception for accounting for the $20 million DRCOG TIP
funds and $4 million in FASTER funds that that were previously awarded to RTD
for US 36 since at the time of the award, no formal policy on this matter was in
place.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Friendly
Amendment: Director Tayer offered this friendly
amendment to change the language to
reflect:any additional grant or other funding
obtained by other parties, including the RTD
base system used to complete the US36
BRT project as defined in Phase 1 of the US
36 FEIS, Preferred Alternative Signed
Agreement and Record of Decision will not
reduce the RTD FasTracks commitment to
the US36 BRT project.
Chair Kemp seconded this amendment.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 8 of 9

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter explained that the number
of Grants have increased, with most
requiring a 20% local match. Grant Funds
go to the base project scopes, and RTD
will only pursue grants that:
i. Provide Operation Efficiency
ii. Address a specific safety or
security concern
iii. Provide a cost effective
capital improvement
iv. Exceptions would be for Art
Projects
Several other Directors (i.e. Brohl,
Anderson, Bagley) expressed concern that
this amended language needs to extend to
all corridors to maintain fairness.
New generic language was proposed by Bill
Van Meter to BOTH remove the word
“source” in part (d) of the original
recommended action AND incorporate
Director Tayer’s proposed “amendment”
but making it non-corridor specific, and
placing it on the recommended action
agenda for the next board meeting rather
than the unanimous consent agenda so that
all Board members could review and
comment on the revised language.
Director Bagley also noted we have gone
through a process to get to where we are
today and it may be important to spell that
out in the background for the new Directors
who may need more understanding.
Chair Kemp noted that this should become
a recommended action item so that the
phrasing can be changed by the next Board
meeting.

Vote on
Motion:

The Board voted to move this item to the
full Board meeting on April 19th with the
stipulation that the language is revised as
discussed
and
is
placed
under
recommended action.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 9 of 9



Payphone Management Directive

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt a policy to not require pay phones at stations and park-n-rides except
where a specific need has been identified.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clark explained that in 1986 RTD put
a policy in place requiring pay phones at all
stations. With the advancement of personal
communications, pay phones are being
phased out. Our new criteria outlines that
we have emergency phones only. This does
not affect any pay phones that are
currently in place.
Director Daly inquired if this only affects
new stations or Park-N-Ride stations as
well. Also, do our current stations have
emergency phones? Rick Clark explained
that only new stations would have the
emergency phones, existing stations were
not retrofitted with them. Director Daly
noted that there are drawbacks, which are
cell phone dead zones.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion Passed Unanimously.

III. Other Matters
Directors Brohl and Bagley commented on their meeting with the Englewood City
Council to discuss FasTracks, some of the triggers for going to the ballot and the
WIN initiative. Director Brohl noted that everyone was very receptive and
understands the importance of a full build out of the system.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for May 3,
2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:50 p.m.

