Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 7, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at
5:30 pm.
****

Board
Members Present:
Board
Members Absent:

Juanita Chacon; Chair, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Bill Christopher,
Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Christ Martinez, Bill McMullen,
John Tayer
Bruce Daly, Wally Pulliam, Neil Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, Barbara
Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Paula Perdue, John Tarbert, Caitlin Magee,
Daria Serna, Kenn Hardin, Ron Dodsworth, Phil Washington, Dennis
Cole, Scott Reed, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, John Shonsey, Jeff Becker,
Bill Porter, Tony McCaulay

Others present:

Mary Keith Floyd, Suzanne Arkle Wilson, Charles Robertson, Dwight
Schock, Kathy Berumen, Ty Perry, John West, Johanna Medina, Kim
Snyder, Jeff Lieb
****

Call to Order
I.

Director Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

West Corridor Outreach – Phil Washington introduced this item. Kenn Hardin gave an
overview of West Corridor outreach activities to the community. The full funding grant
agreement was submitted to the FTA and the District is expecting approval in October or
November of 2008. At that time, Denver Transit Construction Group will be given notice
to proceed and the selections for work on the West Corridor will occur. Denver Transit
Construction Group is committed to meeting the DBE goal of 18% on the West Corridor.
Director McMullen asked what the 18% represents and Kenn Hardin replied that it is 18%
of the total value of the contract. Director Martinez asked where we are on the contract
at this point. Mr. Hardin explained that because the contract has not been executed as
the District is waiting for approval of the Full Funding Grant Agreement, there are no
numbers at this time.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008
Page 2 of 4

Kathy Berumen, FasTracks Contractor, detailed specific activities geared towards the
Hispanic Community. The West Corridor project office has a construction information line
that is bilingual. She displayed the public relations material for the corridor written in both
English and Spanish. These will be displayed in apartment buildings, offices, and schools
along the corridor and the deadline to get these displayed is July 15, 2008. Also the RTD
hotline has been updated with information in Spanish and English with construction
information on the West Corridor.
Director McMullen asked about issues with prospective employee’s immigration status.
Cal Marsella said that the District’s contracts specify that they must be legal residents of
the United States. The District audits this for compliance.
Director Brohl asked about corridor outreach, should the posters go out to a wider
audience. Ms. Berumen said that the posters relate to construction information on the
corridor so it makes sense to keep it within the corridor neighborhoods. Ms. Berumen
mentioned that there are always bilingual speakers available at every West Corridor Public
Meeting. Eminent domain materials are also printed in both English and Spanish and Real
Property has a bilingual staff person to assist with real property issues.
Director McMullen spoke about an event on Santa Fe drive right before the DNC and that
the West Corridor PI team may want to have some outreach there.
Director Christopher asked if there were other languages that we were seeing a need for
interpreters. Ms. Berumen responded that it hasn’t been seen yet but as the project
moves further into Denver there may be a need for some Asian language interpreters.
Director Chacon expressed a concern about the “hold message” information on the RTD
main phone line. Do we have DBE information on the line? Phil Washington responded
that the message is more general and gives a number to call for more specific information.
Ms. Berumen spoke about the options available when someone calls the West Corridor
hotline. A caller could speak with an RTD representative, they can speak to a Denver
Transit representative, they can get contract information, etc.
II.

PPP Information Outreach Activities – Phil Washington spoke about this agenda item. The
industry forum is July 30, 2008 at the Denver Athletic Club. In preparation for this, the
Small Business Opportunity Office is doing a series of mini outreach activities to
encourage people to attend the forum. They are meeting with chambers, non profit
groups, etc. The goal is to explain what PPP is and how important the forum is.
In the morning of July 30 it will be a joint SBOO and prime meeting. There will be
briefings on the project as well as networking sessions so that DBEs and primes can get
together to talk about teaming together. Director Chacon asked who the audiences are for
the mini outreach this week. Phil Washington responded that Colorado Contractors and
COMTO are this week. Director Chacon spoke about the outreach activities and how

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008
Page 3 of 4

there is a need for a common message to be going to the community as she is hearing
that different groups are hearing different messages. Director Chacon would like to see a
unified message going out to the community. Phil Washington responded that staff would
follow up and make sure a unified message is being delivered. Director Brohl asked that
the SBOO do PPP outreach to the bar associations as well and was a mini session planned
with the bar associations as well. Phil Washington responded that on July 16, 2008
there will be a big legal community outreach and staff will make sure there will be a large
section devoted to PPP.
Director Elfenbein asked for more information on the July 30, 2008 meeting. Mr.
Washington said the PPP Industry forum will be on July 30, 2008 at the Denver Athletic
Club beginning at 8:00 am. SBE – DBEs and Primes will be in the morning session. The
afternoon session is more of a question and answer time for primes to help them in
preparing for their RFQ submission. On July 31, 2008 there will be technical tours for the
primes to view the lines.
Director Brohl requested that the flyer on the July 30, 2008 meeting be sent to all
Directors.
Director Christopher wanted a list of meetings already held and meetings scheduled.
III.

Subcontractors Performance Self-Insured Program – Bob Medina gave this update. Now
that the West Corridor construction has begun, staff will begin enrolling some of the DBEs
and smaller contractors as soon as they are identified and scored.

IV. Small Business Opportunity Office Activities/Update – Phil Washington presented this
item. There was a presentation by the Baker team showing their outreach on the I-225
corridor to students in the Aurora Public Schools and Denver Public Schools. Directors
Martinez, McMullen expressed their appreciation for the program. Director McMullen
asked that Baker give this presentation to the Aurora City Council as that would get it
broadcast on channel 8 and give this program some wonderful exposure.
Director Brohl asked about the reasons behind this program. Phil Washington said it was
to encourage new riders, invest in the community, and educate young people about the
career opportunities. This is also work force development and trying to head the students
towards scholarships.
Kenn Hardin spoke the 2nd Quarter report and asked if the Directors had any questions.
Certification has increased, three RTD contracts were awarded in the last quarter.
Participation for FasTracks and RTD are very good.
V.

FasTracks Participation Summary (DBE/SBE Payments) – Ty Perry gave this update.
Prime commitment has dropped a little bit. This is because there were some early
contracts were there were no DBE opportunities. Staff is anticipating that numbers will
hold steady if not increase. Director Martinez asked about some of the contracts that

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 24, 2008
Page 4 of 4

have a DBE goal but the commitment from the contractors is lower. Phil Washington said
that staff will provide more detail on these variances.
VI. Other Matters – Director Martinez reiterated his appreciation for the Baker project and
commended staff for their work.
VII. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Chacon adjourned the meeting at 6:27 p.m.

