Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, November 14, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Committee Vice Chair Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Williams called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Present

4:57 PM
5:11 PM
5:17 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Remote

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:23 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present

4:32 PM
5:24 PM
5:33 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Absent

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:18 PM

Director Anderson and Folska participated via phone. Director Tisdale was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Steve Bodie, Nicole
Carey, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Joey Davidson,
Aprajit "Jeet" Desai, Terry Emmons, Bob Grado, Jeff KayBrian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Todd Nikkel, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Tegan Rice, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp,
Mark Tieman, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Christina Zazueta,

Others Present:

Dan Dent, William Gross, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplette

Committee Vice Chair Williams discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency
situation occurred.

B. Recommended Actions

• Longmont Fare Buy Up
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of
Longmont to buy up fares on all four of the Longmont local fixed route
services herein referenced as “the 300 series.” Specifically the 300 series
are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Access-a-Ride
services for a period of two years.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, provided the
overview stating that Boulder County entered into an
agreement with the RTD in 2014 to “buy up” all fares on the
300 series routes in Longmont. He explained that Boulder
County received the funding from the City of Longmont to
assist in the buy up program, and that contract to buy up
service will expire in December 2017. He explained that this
is an extension of the contract and that the City of Longmont
would like to continue the Longmont Free Fare program for
an o t h e r two years.
Director Broom asked how the $130,000 amount determined.

Mr. Matthews explained that the amount was calculated by the
finance office, and it took into consideration fare increases. He
also stated that if there were another increase that the “buy
up” cost would increase.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, explained that the amount
was based on fares received over the last year prior to
Longmont entering into the fare “buy up” agreement.
Director Lubow stated that this was a very popular program
and stopped the nose dive in ridership. She added that the city
was paying for the program and that she supports it.
Director Francone stated that she was in support of the
program. She asked if the decline in ridership due to high fares
was based on statistical data.
Mr. Abel explained that with the fare adjustments made in the
early 2000’s there was a separate fare in Longmont that was
lower than the general RTD Local fare price, and when RTD
implemented a district wide adjustment that all local fares be
priced the same Longmont suffered a decline in ridership. He
added that the City of Longmont decided to implement this
program to see if ridership would increase.
Chair Hoy asked if the dollar amount that the City of Longmont
paid had remained constant since the “buy up” contract had
become effective.
Mr. Matthews stated that was correct.
Chair Hoy asked whether the 8% ridership increase had been
since this contract went into effect or in the last year.
Mr. Matthews explained that ridership was 156,863 boardings
and had doubled to 373,204 boardings since the program
began. He added that RTD performed a survey and that
determined that there is an 8% increase of new riders. He also
explained that the riders previously would take one trip with a
number of transfers and the program had given riders more
alternatives and take multiple trips.
Director Deadwyler asked if there would be an increase in the
amount provided by the City of Longmont due to the increase
in ridership, and if that impacted revenue to RTD.

Mr. Matthews explained that the city will not pay additional
cost because there is no additional or new equipment being
used. He added that if there was a fare increase the city
would pay an additional amount.
Director Deadwyler asked if the program was for local fares
only, if there was route from Longmont to Denver, and if the
free ride applied to those routes.
Mr. Matthews explained that a passenger on the local 300
series could be issued a transfer and pay the difference for a
regional route ticket.
Director Folska stated that she was in support of the program.
Director Anderson asked if the issue was either the number of
riders or the number of trips.
Mr. Matthews explained that prior to this program a customer
would make several stops on one trip, and with the program
the same customer would take several trips per day.
Director Anderson stated the program allows for riders to board
several times per day. She added that she supports the
program.
Director Menten stated that RTD receives two payments a year
and that it breaks down to approximately $0.70 per boarding,
which is quite a difference from the regular $2.70 for a local
fare. She asked if RTD was losing money through the program.
Mr. Abel clarified that the intent of the program was to see if
the increase to the fare in 2002 was a decline in ridership. He
explained that the amount of boardings had increased from this
program with an increase of 8% new riders, that was
determined by the survey RTD conducted. All of this is done
within the existing capacity and that while riders are increasing
their trips by almost double. There is no cost to RTD the
revenue per has gone down.
Director Menten asked if the 300 series routes have more
people in the seats.
Mr. Abel explained that the increase was trips per person.
Director Solano asked at what point would the agency need to
buy more buses.

Mr. Matthews stated that the agency has a lot of capacity and
it was not anticipated to add equipment for many years.
Director Solano stated he was in support of the program.
Director Broom asked what was the goal and advantages of
the program for Longmont, and should similar programs be
offered to other communities.
Committee Vice Chair Williams stated that the people in
Boulder County are pleased with the program and that it has
been very good for the RTD image. She added that the agency
was not adding any additional services or costs and that the
program is making transit affordable and accessible.
Director Francone asked if RTD was losing money on the
program.
Mr. Abel stated that the intent was for RTD to remain revenue
neutral, and that the contract had a short out clause was
because if ridership increase to the point of requiring additional
service the contract would have to be renegotiated. He added
that this project worked because Longmont has a very isolated
service system, and that this project could not be done in a
district where travel overlaps into other districts.
Director Walker stated his support of the program and that it
opened access to a lot of people and gives riders more options.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Doug Tisdale
Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson, Claudia Folska

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

• TMD Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to
approve an amendment to the Transportation Management & Design, Inc.
(TMD) Contract 14DO009, awarded in March 2015, to exercise the two
remaining one-year option periods thereby extending the Contract period of

performance to December 31, 2019 and to increase the contract amount by
$650,000 from $500,000 to a new Not to Exceed (NTE) total of
$1,150,000.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jeff Becker, Manager of Services and Development, explained
that Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD)
provides on-call service planning assistance to RTD a n d
t h a t TMD has been selected on three different occasions
through RTD’s Request for Proposal (RFP) process over the
last 15 years to perform a variety of service planning studies
for projects which require more time or specific expertise
than RTD Service Development staff have available. He
stated that some projects have included the restructuring
of bus services associated with the opening of the A-Line rail
service, the B-Line rail service, the R-Line rail service, and the
planned opening of the G-Line rail service. He added that
TMD is currently working to provide assistance in the
restructuring of bus service associated with the planned
opening of the N-Line rail service, and that TMD has provided
assistance with various transit priority studies.
Director Archuleta asked why there was an increase of
$150,000, and if the company was performing additional
work.
Mr. Becker explained that the additional money is for the
exceeding years and that this funding was for the option years
and for performing additional tasks.
Director Francone asked whether the tasks are outside the
scope or expertise of RTD.
Mr. Becker stated that RTD doesn’t have the time and possibly
the expertise to do the tasks.
Director Folska stated she was in support.
Director Anderson stated she was in support.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Lorraine Anderson, Claudia Folska

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

• Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that
free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2017
to December 31, 2018. Utilization has been minimal to date and this
extension will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the November 28,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
explained that at the October 30, 2006 Special Board
Meeting, the RTD Board of Directors approved a resolution
allowing active duty U.S. Military personnel to ride free on all
RTD services through the end of 2006. This offer has been
extended annually by the Board since that time and is now
valid through December 31, 2017. As a result of these
actions, all active duty members of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marines, Coast Guard, National Guard, and Reserves
are entitled to ride free on any RTD service including special
services such as SkyRide and BroncosRide. To be eligible to
ride for free, active duty military personnel must either be in
uniform or present an active duty military ID card. Staff
recommends that the RTD Board of Directors extend this offer
beyond the current expiration date of December 31, 2017 and
that the expiration date be extended by one year at this time
and revisited again next year.
Director Folska stated she would vote in favor to show support
of the active duty members.

Director Anderson stated that it is a pleasure to provide this
service, and she would vote in favor of the action.
Director Broom asked if members of the National Guard or
Reserves are provided the service.
Mr. Reed stated that the ability to ride free would depend on
being issued active duty identification card.
Director Solano stated that he had several family members that
are active duty member and would be voting in favor of the
action.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik
Doug Tisdale
Lorraine Anderson, Claudia Folska

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 2016 Performance Review
Jeff Becker, Manager of Special Services, provided an overview of the 2016
Service Review stating that this report is done annually that is done to meet
the RTD mission to provide cost-effective service throughout the district. He
stated that the review did not include fare revenue by route because the fare
zone structure was changed and Service Standards were revised to combine
the Express, SkyRide and Regional routes into one Regional class. He added
that the department discovered some issues with the revenue allocation
method used for many years that will be addressed with a new model under
development to improve revenue allocation and provide better inputs into the
service performance evaluation. He stated that due to all these changes, the
agency did not have the resources to prepare accurate subsidy calculations
for 2016, and the report reflects only cost or cost per boarding by route. He
added that the results are still very useful and similar to previous reports and
we will provide a complete analysis for 2017. He concluded that the agency
guidelines state that the least productive 10% of routes based on either
subsidy per boarding or boardings per hour need to be evaluated for
marketing, revision or elimination, or both if measures fall below 25% for a
route, and that the agency had addressed some of the “outside of the box”
routes with service changes.

Director Sisk stated that he was continually disappointed about not having
ridership numbers, and it discredits RTD that ridership figures have not been
provided.
Mr. Becker stated we do have that numbers and will provide those numbers
to the board office.
Committee Chair Williams requested that ridership numbers be provided to
the Board Office.
Mr. Abel stated that the agency had some technical issues with the people
counters used to determine the ridership numbers and a number of people
working to resolve the issue.
Mr. Becker stated that the agency would rather put out the correct numbers
than any numbers.
Director Francone requested time offline to understand the details of the
2016 Service Review.
Chair Hoy asked how the Broncos Ride has less boarding per hour because it
appears that there were hundreds of people boarding those routes.
Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager, explained that the
number of boardings and the number of service hours need to be considered,
and that in the case of the Bronco Ride there are operating hours where
buses are not in service.
Chair Hoy concluded that the operators were paid for time spent waiting for
the bus to leave, or the game to end.
Director Menten stated that she would like to join Director Francone in a
meeting regarding the performance review results
Mr. Carter stated that 2016 had a lot of big changes in service with the
introduction of the Flatiron Flyer in January, the A line in April, and the B line
in August.
Director Deadwyler requested to be included in the meeting with Director
Francone and Menten.
Director Anderson requested a presentation in writing to the whole board.
Director Lubow suggested that a class be offered.

Mr. Abel assured the Board that a workshop would be scheduled regarding
on the service performance review.

• Lost Service Hours Update 11 14 17
Mr. Abel stated RTD has been providing updates on lost service hours since
reports showed that it was an issue. He stated that in 2013 to 2014 lost
service hours were reported in the single digits, but by the middle of 2015
had risen to double and triple digits. He added that in 2016 and 2017 as the
agency experienced greater head count challenges the ability to meet service
commitment to customers. He summarized the increase in lost service hours
provided in the report stating that 2016 and 2017 continue to be
challenging to meet service commitment. He added that the lost service
hours coincide with the mandating of employees to work on their days off.
He explained that RTD mandates 9-10% of the daily service hours and are
unable to perform approximately 1% of service hours. Mr. Abel stated that
the agency continues to work with human resources to address the
headcount shortage, which is 11% under the required number of operators,
on recruitment and retention. He added that this is one of the most
important issues facing the agency provided some of the incentives that
have been implemented to recruit and retain operators. He concluded that
the agency has recently needed to mandate on the rail lines due to lack of
operators and are working to resolve that issue.
Director Menten how many applicants fail a drug exam, specifically
marijuana.
Mr. Abel shared that prior to legalizing marijuana approximately 6-8
applicants a year that failed a drug test and after legalizing marijuana
approximately 11-12 applicants per year failed. He added that that RTD is a
drug free workplace and those that participate in extracurricular drug use
should not apply.
Director Menten asked if there a zero tolerance, or if there was certain
percentage that was allowed.
Mr. Abel explained that there are thresholds established by the federal
regulations, but he would ask the agencies drug and alcohol department
provide that information.
Director Archuleta asked how much money the agency was losing due to
lost service hours.
Mr. Abel explained that the agency tracks only the lost service hours and
has not converted those numbers to a monetary value.

Director Lubow asked if there was a plan or expectation to address the
issue.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD analyzes all avenues to address the issue and
that it is a viscous cycle that when you get behind in head count then RTD
mandates operators which in turn makes operators leave the agency. He
added that maybe the agency should examine if Ask RTD the correct size to
provide all the service being provided. service.
Director Lubow asked if there is a time line to resolve the operator shortage.
Mr. Abel stated that the agency continues to examine all avenues to improve
recruiting and retention.
Chair Hoy we are not running the routes that are high volume 20-25%
Mr. Abel explained that RTD may save money by not running some service
but that doesn’t meet our customer service, however the financial
assessment is on the mark.
Chair Hoy ask what happened in September and October as to why there is
such a higher demand for service.
Mr. Abel explained that the spikes in service correspond to the National
Football League (NFL) season beginning that create a large volume of
required/mandated service. He added that the NFL and other seasonal events
add an extraordinary demand on RTD service and that reports show the
agency would mandate less when there are less games or events.
Director Walker stated that operator demand is a nationwide issue, and that
the low level unemployment rate makes this it hard to resolve the issue.
Director Deadwyler asked what the agency was doing to create new
strategies and ideas to address the issue.
Director Abel stated that the issue of work life balance is an issue facing
transit agencies across the country. He stated that some agencies has
deferred service due to the issue of retaining or ability to man the operation.
He explained that the agency has attempted to provide more straight runs
and fewer split runs for operators, and to minimize spread time in order to
create a better work life balance. He added that RTD is working on the
financial side, but that 72% of our ridership was school and work related
both of which has very real peaking hours and until there is a shift in society
from the population needing to travel between 6-9 in the morning and 3:30
– 6:30 in the evening, RTD will continue to need to provide 800 buses or
more during those time and half in the middle of the day. He concluded that

the incentives are have far less impact than the agency would like but that
we continue to persevere at improving the situation.
Director Solano that the Metro or somewhere back east were planning on a
strike during the super bowl and asked how this would be handled if the
agency were faced with the same issue.
Mr. Abel stated that the agency will continue to work this through the
issues with the union.
Director Lubow stated her surprise that many missed routes were based on
the Bronco games and the different
Abel explained that it was a holistic issue and that the agency is impacted
by all events that take place in the area, htat it impacts routes both the day
of the event and the morning after.
Director Lubow asked if the agency prioritized the routes, stating that it
made sense that the morning routes to get customers to work were more
important than an event.
Director Anderson stated that it was a vexing problem it is not something
the Board can resolve and hopes things will improve. She added isn’t just a
wage problem and paying employees more but that with the low
unemployment rate there is a problem attracting and retaining employees.
Committee Chair Williams thanked all of the staff for working hard to deal
with the situation.

D. Other Matters
Director Archuleta stated that he attended the Rocky Mountain Indian Chamber,
American Indian Achievement Awards Gala, on November 11, 2017 and was
presented with a blanket, which he and gave to Zamy Silva.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 12, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 6:47 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

