Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 3, 2012

Subject:

Corrected - Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on April 3, 2012
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams
and Walker

Board Members
Absent:

Director Malpiede, Director James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Chuck Culig, John
Dawson, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Andy Mutz, Jerry Nery,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKennaBrandeberry-McKenna, Roger Sherman-CRL
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 6:42 p.m.

Director Cohen shared that the Co-chair of CAC Ken Burns has resigned his seat due
to business reasons and Debra Wilcox will reassume the seat along with Co-chair
David Lewis. CAC does not have a report for the Board at this time.
I.

Update – Southwest Corridor Extension
Quick note from Bill VanMeter – Rick Clarke is out ill and in his place Del Walker and
John Shonsey will represent the Capitol Program Department. Also seated is Andy
Mutz, Engineering Project Manager and Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 2
Susan Wood gave a brief summary of the presentation of the Southeast Rail
Extension provided to the Board of Directors. She shared that the presentation
presented was a part of the plan that was approved by the voters in 2004 which
recently went back to the public and confirmed the original alignment that would
extend transit service 2.3 miles from Lincoln Avenue to RidgeGate Pkwy which
includes 3 new LRT stations.
Susan Wood provided a brief update on the NEPA efforts touching on the Alternative
Analysis and the Environmental Assessment which included the Scoping Meeting,
Conduct Alternative Analysis, A public meeting was held to present results of
analysis and RTD’s Board of Directors approval of locally preferred alternative.
In moving forward Susan Wood shared that no impact is expected but is possible.
She spoke briefly on the Federal Funding Application which included the travel
demand modeling, application materials preparation, evaluation relative to approval
criteria where it was found that the Southeast Extension better meets New Starts,
rather than Small Starts. New Starts looks at forecast and conditions in a horizon
year which in this case 2035. Small Starts looks on those same conditions but more
on an open door basis which in this year is 2017. Several key points of the change
from Small Starts to New Starts are: the project schedule which is projected to be
completed mid-2017--unchanged under a successful Sales & Use Tax scenario; cost
implications where Federal Funding requested was $75 million that will remain
unchanged from Small Starts with the option to request up to 50% project cost,
additionally. The cost now being a little over 200 million dollars and could request
more but at this point we have not any more than the 75% in the financial plan.
New Starts allows RTD to count project benefits in 2035 rather than opening day.
The reason the Southeast is a strong candidate for Federal Funding is because of
high ridership that’s projected with the travel demand that was done for the area.
Additionally it has a low annualized cost per rider because of the high ridership and
the overall low cost of the project. Another reason is it meets the criteria for
economical development--the comprehensive land use plans that had been approved
by the local government in that area provide for substantial development over the
next 20-30 years.
If unsuccessful sales & use tax election in 2012, the competitiveness of remaining
partially funded projects will be analyzed and additional New Starts applications will
be considered based on availability of local matching funds, final changes in the
evaluation criteria for the New Starts Program which can change, and reauthorization
of the transportation funding bill.
Andy Mutz discussed briefly on the progress made in the Advanced Basic
Engineering. Stating in conjunction with the APE is the Advanced Environmental
Work. The EE portion was completed in 2009-2010 and the APE was based upon
that level of designs. Because all the work is being done in-house it allows the
design and technical staff to establish their own base line and the beauty of it is they
are able to look at areas to save money. The team is tuned in with the Stakeholders,
coordinating with them as well. The majority of the land we will be going through is
owned by our main Stakeholders. Over the past six months various meetings have

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 3
taken place allowing them to establish federal alignments, better structural span,
better drainage, and earthwork which has brought a greater clarity and scope
definition to the project.
Andy Mutz shared that they have put together their 1st package that includes the
establishment of a new budget. The first advanced engineering design package and
updated estimate will be completed in April.
Andy briefly spoke on the Coordination with Stakeholders which is an ongoing
process with CDOT, the City of Lone Tree, and Douglas County. In addition to
public, agency, and local government meetings held during the Alternatives Analysis
process, meetings will also be scheduled during the Environmental Assessment and
any additional meetings with stakeholders as needed or requested. The Presentation
was concluded.
Board of Directors comments or concerns:


Director Williams inquired about when the committee will hear back regarding
the FTA, if submitted in September of 2012. Susan Wood stated it should be
around February of 2013.



Director Tobiassen inquired if there were any cooperation from other
developers. He expressed concern that once the structure is built, it could
become a car centric community surrounding the station that could potential
end with just a bunch of great parking lots. Andy Mutz stated yes, there was
a lot of support and cooperation and one of the advantages is we are only
dealing with one land owner and they are in tune with what RTD plans are
which is more of a high density environment on the lines to Downtown. Andy
will provide a copy of the land owners plan to the Board of Directors and
currently the design built is primary pedestrians based, there are no parking
structures.



Director Daly asked what the capacity of parking spaces in the Lincoln station
because it seems to be very. Andy stated it is about 2,000 spaces which
currently has a percentage of usage of about 78%.



Director Daly asked why the need for the additional spaces projected to be
added. Andy stated that the projected ridership forecasting for 2035 is
showing an increase demand driven by increased growth and congestion
around the corridor and in Northern Douglas County.



Director Bagley asked if a decision has been made yet on the $75 million
Federal Funds requested. Bill VanMeter stated we should expect a decision
anytime between now and September of 2012.



Director Bagley asked if there was anything detrimental if they added an
additional $25 million. Bill VanMeter stated no, technically up to 80% can be
requested according to the law of Federal funds but as a practicality, to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 4
remain competitive we would not want to ask for more than 50% but the
possibility of asking for money does exist.


Director Bagley also asked what contributed to the cost of extension 2 years
ago that was between $175-$180 million range and is now $207 million.
Andy Mutz stated that back in 09/10 a lot of assumptions were made that
were off and as some of those assumptions were eliminated to define the
scope a lot better, there was an increase in the figure.



Director McMullen stated that years back when this was passed in 2004 a lot
of discussion was put into the whole harmless agreements and different
corridors and such. It was discussed that the last two legs to be completed
were would be the southeast and southwest expansions. He is concerned
that this project is now going ahead of other projects as Boulder/Longmont
and Metro North. Agrees it’s a wonderful project but if it’s going before the
others, is this something that needs to be addressed?



Chair Kemp commented that in 2004 we had a revenue stream that supports
making sure that the entire system would be built in an equitable time frame,
What has happened was over the past few years and in the economic
meltdown, the plan has changed in the fact that we have to take a look at
where are we in the cost and revenue availability to complete these projects.
He believes that a good job has been done to date so far making sure that all
corridors have seen some of the $305 million spent equally. The problem now
is with the funding stream and the whole purpose of why we are going to a
ballot in 2012 is to keep it moving in the same type of time frame and at the
same time staff has to be giving us an alternatives as revenue to revenue
sources become available. We as a Board have to look at here we are and we
need to move forward to get the whole system done. Are we going to move
forward with a tax ballot in November? If not we cannot stop at least
completing what we can in FasTracks, build as much as we can as fast as we
can until it is all done.



Director McMullen stated he is ok with those things but wonders if as a Board
we are making a change from what we said almost 8 years ago and if so
what are we going to do as a Board.



Chair Kemp stated that the Board has not yet made a change from that. All
that we’re doing as a Board today is moving what staff recommended,
forward. All the system will be built as promised. If the Board decides not to
go to the ballot then the question may become valid at that time.



General Manager Washington stated that one of the game changers in this
extension is the opportunity for Federal money. What has been submitted to
the Board over the past year starting with our big transportation decision
forum was that we would pursue all available funding aggressively before
going to the voters for a tax increase. The game changer here is we have an
opportunity for federal money so we cannot wait and say this will go last and
forgo maybe $75 to $100 million dollars so the idea of pursuing all available

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 5
funding is the game changer for this extension. It is the duty of staff to bring
to the board the opportunity to get millions of dollars in funding. Tomorrow it
can change. We saw in the Senate bill that there was funding for BRT, so the
staff will likely be coming to the Board to say we can pursue funding, this is
just a brand new provision in the Senate bill if it passes then BRT funding will
become available. So again as opportunities present themselves is the key to
this particular corridor.


Director McMullen asked that if as a Board could a resolution be put out to
the public that we intend to keep the promises made in 2004 but that we will
take advantage of the opportunities to complete projects as opportunities
become available.



Director Cohen responded briefly, the Board has been taking actions that
demonstrate that we are continuing to move forward and going through the
steps is part of that. Having some type of resolution at this point until what
we really know what the definition is what we’re looking forward to may not
help us.



Director O’Boyle disagree with Director McMullen that it was made public
that these extensions had to be last. Director O’Boyle ask staff in regards to
the changes of the evaluation criteria, is that wrapped up in the reauthorization bill, what is it, and how does it affect fractions here.
Bill VanMeter states that yes it is. The Federal Transit Administration about
two years ago released an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to make
some changes in the criteria bill and how projects are rated and selected
under New Starts. The final proposal which make changes to how cost
effective index for projects are compared and rated across the country. As of
right now we are still operating under the previous criteria and rules.



Director Anderson states that the conversations Director McMullen talked
about were just discussions and believes the Board has always had a policy of
doing all they can to moving forward and as fast as they can. Since this
project does not affect any of the FasTracks overall funding then it should
move forward and move as fast as it can. It doesn’t change the sale tax issue
and does not delay any other projects. We need to obtain all the money we
can from the Federal government and move forward to achieve our plan.
General Manager Washington states that every Federal dollar we get is one
less dollar that tax payers have to pay and that these are grants and not
loans.



Director Cohen reiterated that all the information given tonight is just
informational and no action will take place.



Director Williams states that because there is no action item associated with
the topic at hand, she assumes it is just informational. She would like to
know a bit about the process and when the Board can expect to have to take
action on the matter. It would be very helpful to have information to share in
her district as to (1) timeline for the process (2) assumptions of how funding

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 6
will work (3) What happens if no election in 2012.
Bill VanMeter states that he is happy to sit down with Director Williams,
Director Hoy and whomever else to discuss and clarify those issues further.
 Director Tayer indicated the best solution to all of these questions is to pass
the sales tax. However, in the absence of a new sales tax, he would be
interested in knowing how the equity issues play out in terms of:
o Scope change and price evolves as they reach the 30% design. This does
not parlay into equitable distribution of funds compared to BRT which is
based on fixed costs.
o FasTracks mapping-he would like to see a map/matrix providing
information by corridor on the federal dollars and resources available,
what monies they could qualify for and show that all corridors are getting
equitable consideration for possible funding sources. Van Meter replied
that all of this is in the APE. Director Tayer replied that he would like to
see this in a nice matrix.
Other questions arose pertaining to what happens if the Board does not go to the
ballot or lose the initiative. Marla Lien, General Counsel shared that in accordance
with the RTD Act, any action will require a 2/3 vote of the Board and DRCOG
approval if we are going to the ballot. If we do not go to the ballot, there is no
requirement for DRCOG approval.
II.

Recommended Action
Lacy Bell joined Bill Van Meter to present this item.
 Approval to enter into a FASTER Grant IGA with CDOT for circulator buses
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IFA) with the Colorado
Department of Transportation to receive the $3.9 Million FASTER Grant for the
purchase of six buses for the Downtown Circulator, with the $3.9 Million in grant
funding being added to the total project budget. The acceptance for the FASTER
Grant requires a local match of $3.9 Million which is included in the adopted
FasTracks financial plan.
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the April 17, 2012 Board
meeting.

Discussion:

Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Director Tobiassen asked the annual
cost to provide this service. Van
Meter indicated they will be
providing more cost information in
the next few months.
Several
Directors appeared confused as to
whether this cost comes from base

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 7
operations or FasTracks. Marla Lien
clarified that there is 1% of money
included in the FasTracks budget
for operating of new services
associated with the FasTracks
project.
Director
Deadwyler
inquired for how long and Bill Van
Meter replied in perpetuity.
Director Williams asked that this
issue be included in the meeting
discussion she had requested
earlier.
Vote on
the motion:

The action passed with 11 Board
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer and Walker) and 2 against
(Tobiassen and Williams). Director
Malpiede was absent and Director
James had left.
Committee Chair Cohen called the
action PASSED.

General Manager Washington stated that this has always been in the original plan for
FasTracks.

III.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
Committee Chair Cohen asked if there was a desire to go into executive session for
the purpose to discuss CRS 24-6-402(4) (e) contract negotiations –I225 Unsolicited
proposal.
Motion:

Director O’Boyle made the motion
to move into executive session to
discuss this item.
Director Deadwyler seconded the
motion.

Vote on the
Motion:
Three Board members voted in
favor of going into executive

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 8
session (Deadwyler, O’Boyle and
Williams) and 10 against (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Kemp,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen, and
Walker)
Committee Chair Cohen called the
Motion FAILED.
The Board continued the discussion of the I-225 Unsolicited proposal in open meeting.
Committee Chair Cohen indicated there would be no discussion of the financial terms to
preserve the integrity of the proposal and not jeopardize the competitive nature of this
opportunity.
Committee Chair Cohen then read the recommended action in its entirety for the record.
Del Walker presented this proposal. He stated that RTD desires to have industry assistance
in delivering the FasTracks program as soon as possible and through this call we received
this unsolicited proposal from Kiewit Construction Company for the I-225 corridor. Staff has
evaluated the submission with the intent to verify that it offers direct benefit to RTD, its
passengers and the community, that it satisfy a need that can be accommodated without
impacting planned expenditures, it is consistent with RTD goals and objections, and it is
unique and extends beyond what RTD intended through our normal procurement process.
The Kiewit proposal has met all the required criteria and offers an attractive extension of
the I-225 corridor beyond the planned Iliff station. It is important to note that no adverse
impact was seen on the existing or long term implementations plans of the agency as a
result of this proposal. We are not recommending a sole source contract but we are
requesting approval to move to a competitive procurement process that will allow full and
open competition among the industry. Based on the feedback we do anticipate additional
proposers. The elements of the RFP as issued would exclude any of the confidential
information that was submitted by Kiewit.
Del Walker spoke briefly on the logistics and details and opens the floor for questions to
him and Susan Cohen. Committee Chair Cohen reminded the Board to speak in generalities
and to keep the questions focused on the topic.
Director Tobiassen inquired about the timeline of when the proposal will be back. Del
Walker states we are in the process of working with staff on that timeline but are looking at
about six weeks for the advertisement phase and another six weeks before the proposal.
General Manager Washington stated that we will be moving quickly to bring it back to the
Board-- Looking at about thirty to sixty days for the completed proposal to be released.
Director Cohen inquired if six weeks was enough time for others to come forth. General
Manager Washington stated yes. We have already started writing up the RFP now.
Director Tayer suggested to staff that they keep an open mind and not narrowly define the
RFP by the character of the proposal.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 3, 2012
Page 9
Director O’Boyle asked if the proposal that was received and analyzed, given the success or
non-success of the ballot, will this strain the capacity of RTD to fund other proposals. Does
it suck all the air out of the room?
Del Walker stated that he does not believe that is does and to go into it any further, and to
further explain would have to be an executive session. General Manager Washington stated
that he felt it safe to say that we would not be sitting here saying that the proposal has
merit and asking to release an RFP if it sucked out the air out the room.
Del Walker stated we will be very thoughtful to not preclude anything along the corridor, I
don’t perceive that the whole can be built under our current financial situation so it could be
a challenge. An option can be put on the table.
General Manager Washington stated that once an RFP is crafted it will be brought to the
Board, so we don’t want to say what’s in it. We are just asking to move forward on the
recommendation. Director Williams inquired if they could see the RFP before it goes out for
bid.
Chair Kemp reiterated that we are just authorizing staff to solicit an RFP. Then they will
bring back the information for the Board to make a decision.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the April 17,
2012 meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed with 12 votes in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, Kemp,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen,
Williams and Walker) and 1 against
(O’Boyle). Directors Malpiede and
James were absent.

IV.

Other Matters
Committee Chair Cohen acknowledged Sherman Hamilton and asked that he prepare
a report with an update of how he felt things were going for the next meeting.

V.

Next meeting date – May 1, 2012

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:33 p.m.

