May 7, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee Part 1
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: Good evening, everyone. In anticipation of a lengthy evening, we're going to
get started. It's 5:30. I'm Ken Mihalik, the Chair of the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee. And like I said, it is 5:30, May the 7th. Se we will call this meeting to order.
We'll start off with a safety moment, because safety is a core value here at RTD. Now that the
weather is getting warmer and we're spending more time outside, you're going to start
encountering creatures. For some advice on creatures you may encounter-- insects, lice, and
ticks. Make sure you wear the proper insect repellent for these animals.
They can carry many diseases, dead or alive. So avoid that. Snakes, of course-- we do have
rattlesnakes here. Keep bite victims calm to slow the spread of venom, and of course seek
medical attention as quickly as possible. Black bears and cougars-- make noise and make sure
that they know that you're there, and act like you're big.
[LAUGHTER]
-- to them. And if need be, do fight back, like the one gentleman who did earlier in the year. We
have a full -- four recommended actions this evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, a point of personal privilege?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chairman, I would respectfully request a brief moment of
silence for the tragedy that has occurred at the STEM school in Highlands Ranch, which is in my
district. I was a block away from the STEM school yesterday meeting the Highland Ranch Metro
District, and it was a very sad bit of news when the General Manager Genova and I were
watching the news this afternoon to hear about it, and I would ask for a moment so that we may
all collect our thoughts and hope for the best for the victims. And the victims include all those
who were there and impacted by this, and not simply those who were injured in the course of it.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: Hey John or Barbara, the agenda that's available is simply-- or at least the
Board packet is limited to the agenda.

The content is not there.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, he's right.
KATE WILLIAMS: So this meeting will be short.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: OK. The suggestion is to-- if that is the case for you-- sign out and sign back
in. Sign back in.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Dr. Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: If I may, is that safety briefing complete?
KEN MIHALIK: It is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And would you be able to inform this Board as to why it changed from
informative to uninformative?
KEN MIHALIK: Informative versus uninformative?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. If we have an emergency, and 911 needs to be called the General
Counsel will do this, the ADD is outside to the right, if escorted out. It's something that's
meaningful. But tigers and lions and bears, I think we all know about them. That's not for this
room. I mean, I'm troubled, and this is a serious question.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. I've taken the prerogative to change it up every once in a while because
we become diluted to the same message, and it's repeated over and over again. But you're right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, to me, if I may say, if you don't mind, with all due respect,
sometimes varying people are here. So while you may have heard it a million times, if there's one
new person who would benefit from real information, I think it's worth repeating. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Duly noted.
BOB BROOM: Mine still doesn't have anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mine doesn't have anything either.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, mine is still not working.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

DOUG TISDALE: If you can bear with us, there was point of order. On reboot, the same result
seems to have taken place.
KEN MIHALIK: Please bear with us. We'll take just a short recess to try to resolve this tech
issue.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Excuse me? Counselor, I'm asking if we have to stick to this agenda, and
could we go directly to an update that we don't have to vote on while we're waiting for the
technology to be repaired?
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. I'm General Counsel. Certainly, the committee can
decide to change the order under the Bylaws. The chair of the committee can make that change
to that certain function.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: We could give them a few more minutes.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
It may be distracting if we're-NATALIE MENTEN: So yeah, that's my laptop. I can pull it up on my laptop.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ROLF ASPHAUG: If I may-- chairs are-- since it's stated in the Bylaws that the business shall be
transacted as far as practicable within the following order. And the order of business shall adhere
to those items unless modified by the chair if there's no objection by the majority of those
Directors present at voting, so-KATE WILLIAMS: Just in the order of trying to keep things moving while we're sitting here,
surely there must be something that we could deal with that we don't have this thing.
TROY WHITMORE: More dangerous animals.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, lions and tigers. I wouldn't worry about them. [LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Mr. Chair, if I may?
KEN MIHALIK: You may.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Could we just get the hard copies and move from there?
KEN MIHALIK: One more try.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And, I mean, I do this every day without anything. Maybe one person
could read it.
KEN MIHALIK: I can have it on my phone, but we still have the mechanism to be able to vote. I
don't know if that is-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, we can have hands, like the old-fashioned paper trail.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, let me ask if the Board office if we're able to proceed in this limited
functionality.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: John, can I-KEN MIHALIK: There's still-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just in the interest of time.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't disagree with you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Is there any objection to the proceeding as scheduled with the limited functionality? I don't know
if this affects our ability to vote electronically or not. It does?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: I guess it matters with every issue with doing a manual show-of-hands vote?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we-- it's approved for us to move forward manually, I just worry
about the documentation won't be in front of all of the directors.
KEN MIHALIK: Any objection?
DOUG TISDALE: No objection.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, no.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will move on with the first recommended action. This is from the-- It
is 400 pages, so it may take me a while when we're going through to find the next one. It is
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the district audited financial records relating to the year ended

December 31, 2018, as prepared by staff and audited by RTD independent auditor RubinBrown,
LLP. Is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Folska and Williams. Mr. MacLeod, I'll ask that you
introduce the RubinBrown folks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. Each May, we present the
audited financial statements from the prior year to the Board of Directors as a governing body.
You should each have a hard copy in front of you. It is also in the packet, 110 pages in the
packet, and also in the packet, that we did not provide in hard copy is the viewpoints document,
which is the report to governance. Cheryl and Matt will talk about that in just a few minutes. We
will also post the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, CAFR, on the website after next
week's Board meeting if the Board chooses to approve it into the record. And so with that, I will
introduce Cheryl Wallace and Matt Marino from RubinBrown, and they will discuss the results
of their financial audit.
CHERYL WALLACE: Thanks, Doug. Good evening.
KEN MIHALIK: Good evening.
DIRECTORS: Good evening.
CHERYL WALLACE: Oh, it's up there. OK. Good evening. We're here to discuss the results of
the audit process for the December 31, 2018, audit. With that, I'm going to walk us through the
information. In the packet, you had the staffing reductions. Real quickly, I am the partner on the
engagement. My role is to oversee the quality and ensure the proper planning and audit
procedures for the audit. Matt Marino is the concurring partner and also handles the technical
issues that might come up. We were here in February. We did the introduction and the kickoff
for the audit process, if you recall.
We also have a new manager, Max Haberkorn, who was on the job, and he ran and executed the
day-to-day seeing of the audit process. Next-- trying to flip it. Sorry. The objective and scope of
the services, we will talk about, but we were engaged to provide an independent opinion. Your
staff prepared the comprehensive annual financial report. We do not prepare it. We do audit
procedures over it and then issue an opinion. It's over 100 pages, quite informative, takes a lot of
time and effort, and they did a really great job of putting that information together.
Our services not only included auditing the financial statement, but you receive federal funds.
You received over $750,000 in federal funds. With that, you are required to also receive a
compliance audit and a review of the compliance with respect to federal funds. It's called the
single audit. We also performed that. You filed on 4/30 National Transit Data information. We
were engaged to perform those procedures over that information. We performed agreed upon

procedures to make sure that all the information is uploaded in the National Transit Database is
accurate and complete and also is concurrent with the CAFR information.
We also perform a review of the General Manager's contact, which we here in February. So those
are all of our services, and with the audit being the last that we do. The scope of the audit is to
make sure that the financial statements are materially accurate. We do that through various
procedures. We go through, and in looking at that, we come out during our interim process. We
look at your federal funds. We perform procedures at interim, and then we put it out at year end
when the CAFR information is available. The CAFR is the Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report. And we perform procedures over that. Trying not to read from the document since you
don't have it in front of you. Bear with me.
As you go through, we're here to go through the auditors' communications. The way the
information was-- and there's the agenda on the left side, it says required communications we
have with every governing body. There's about 12 of them, and on the right side is how we
satisfy them. I'm going to speak to them. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask me.
We perform the audit with our generally accepted accounting standards, and we also do it under
uniformed guidance because you have the federal funds. We here today, and we issued an
unmodified opinion. An unmodified opinion on your financial statements, used to be called a
clean opinion and an unqualified opinion. That's a good opinion. We also issued an unmodified
opinion over your federal funds, over your single audit. So that's two good things.
We're to let you know if the information is contained in any other document. There is none. We
planned and scoped the audit. We did that several ways. First of all, we have an engagement
letter that is signed and is signed by the committee. That scopes our services. We then reached
out to management. We talked about the timing. We talked about what we're going to look at,
and that's part of those required standards. We're to let you know about any qualitative and
quantitative aspects of accounting practices. What does that really mean? That means that
anything changed the way that you're keeping your books and records, how you're recognizing
your revenues and expenses, and how you're valuing your assets and liabilities. There was no
significant changes. You had no policy changes, which means you have varied comparability
from year to year. And that's a good thing. If there's a change in accounting policy, then you kind
of want to stop and pay attention.
We had no transactions that we came across that lacked authoritative guidance. Or nothing
across periods. Those are all good things. We're to let you know if there are any estimates. There
are estimates. You have infrastructure. So you have some estimates in your financial statements
because you're estimating how long the usable life is of those capital assets, so that's an estimate,
and that gets charged to the income database on how long those assets are going to be utilized
for. You also have petitions, so with that, you look at liability, and there's estimates in that
because you use a lot of actuarial information to help best determine what that liability is. And
we tell you that estimates are no different than any other governmental entity that has that, so
there's varied comparability.

The financial statement disclosures, it is a big document. It's over 100 pages. There are some
highlights in there that give a lot of information behind the numbers and the notes to the detail,
and we talked about them in our viewpoints. The highlights, I would say, in note E is the longterm debt, and note F has your pension information, and those are probably key to RTD.
Next, we're to let you know if there was any difficulty that we encountered in performing the
audit, and we had no difficulty. We are here, we are here a lot. We're here for different
departments, and all the departments are very easy to work with, and we get information very
timely and very quickly.
We're to let you if had any corrected or uncorrected misstatements. What does that really mean?
That means did we have any adjustments to your financial records, and why do care you care?
You care because the information that you're receiving at interim, you're basing your decisions
on. And so you don't have an audit come in and have all the adjustments to your financial
statements, because then you might make different decisions at the interim. So the important
takeaway here is we had no adjustments. So that's a good thing. That means that the information
you're receiving at interim is very accurate and complete.
We're to let you know if we have any disagreements with management. We had none. We do ask
management sign a representation letter. It was included in the packet. It's now required for you
to see the actual written representation letter.
We are to let you know if there's any other items that we need to discuss with the governing
body, and there's none that we have that came to our attention.
So as auditors to governing bodies, we're to bring forward anything that we have that rises to the
level of material weakness or significant deficiency. In auditor language, what does that really
mean? That means that there's something in the process that we saw that would cause a
misstatement. A material misstatement would be a material weakness. So is there something in
the process where something would go undetected that would significantly impact the
information in the financials? And we had nothing that came to our attention to report to the
governances. That's a good thing.
The rest of the information, before I get into it, that was in your package is kind of forward
thinking. So to summarize, we issued a unmodified opinion on the financial statements. We
issued an unmodified opinion on the single audit. There was nothing that came to our attention
that rises to the level of material weakness to a significant deficiencies that we need to discuss to
the governing body.
The rest of the information that was included in the packet, it's more looking forward because
with RTD, the reporting requirements are getting more and more complex, and your team is
having to make sure that that information is the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report. You
have three new standards that the team will have to look into. They're already aware of it, but we
wanted just to let governing body know.

It's a fiduciary funds reporting that's effective for year 2019. I'll tell you, the GASB, the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, who sets the pronouncements, has been very busy in
the last two years, and they've issued a lot of standards that have to be implemented. There is the
fiduciary funds, which shouldn't have a huge impact to RTD. There is the lease information,
which does change how leases are reported on any governmental entity, and at the end of the
day, what it basically says is they've taken away the concept that you have an operating lease and
as you make payments, you charge that to an expense. Now, they said we want leases to kind of
be on your balance sheet as an asset and a liability, so that it's there and transparent on what that
commitment is.
This has nothing to do with changing those agreements. It has simply to do with how that can be
presented on the financial statements. But that will change your assets and liabilities. Every
governmental entity's having to implement that, and that's in 2020.
And then the last one that does have a slight impact on RTD, GASB 89, and it's the accounting
for interest costs incurred before the end of construction period, and that's effective for 2020.
And what that basically means is, as you have construction, you're allowed to capitalize some of
that cost, and that gets reported through your capital assets because of the cost of putting capital
into place. What they're saying is, you no longer get to do that. It's just charged to your income
statement. So that's going to be a change. And your team is already on top of it. They're well
aware of it, but we wanted to let governing body know that this is coming, and it will change
some of how this information is reported on the financial statement.
So that concludes our report. And I didn't click as often as I should have. Sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. I don't know if the speaker queue is functioning. It is
not. So you'll have to bear with me. And just keep who is in order. [SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
And thank you for that. This is the second year in a row that we had this level of more of the
results.
CHERYL WALLACE: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: I think that is a testament to Ms. McKillop and whoever else on her team and
whoever else contributed to this. Any speakers? I don't see any, so thank you for that. We'll
move on with the vote then.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm the mover.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Folska is the mover. Director Williams is second. All of those-sorry-- all those in favor, show of hands. I see it's unanimous. OK.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik, is there anyone on the phone? I couldn't recall.
KEN MIHALIK: There wasn't earlier. I can check. Yes, it would be a good time. We're just
voting. Is there anybody on the phone?

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: I appreciate the reminder. I'll try to continue to check in on that. Thank you,
Miss Wallace. Thank you, Mr. Marino. Thank you, Doug.
CHERYL WALLACE: Thank you for your time.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: I think Miss McKillop is going to join us for the balance of these.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Bear with me as I-- here we go.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
So this is the second of two recommended actions. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute all documents necessary to execute a contract to validate income and
provide customer service to help manage the LiVE program eligibility applications through the
State Peak software system for an amount not to exceed $2 million. The contract is for five years
of application processing and customer service and to support to General Manager's goals of core
goal and task goal number three, strong financial management, and to ensure fiscal sustainability.
Is there a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede and Director Williams again. Heather,
I'll allow you to elaborate.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. Over the last couple months, we've talked about the
implementation of our LiVE program. And one of the component parts of that is doing the
verification of those who are not categorically eligible. And what that means is once you put an
application into the Peak system, if you are already in the system, and you meet the criteria for
our program, then you are automatically approved, and your name moves through the system, so
we can issue a discount card for you. If you're not in the system already, there's a process that we
need to go to, to validate income and household size, and those types of things that contribute to
the program, also make sure you're in the district, those type of things. Denver Human Services
has been working with us and the Office of Information Technology for a while now. They sit on
the Peak and the state task force for this, and they had offered their services a while ago. And
we've been working with them to see if that was a viable alternative versus bringing that work inhouse.

After doing the analysis, it became very clear that it was very viable, and they had that expertise
that we definitely would not have and would not be able to get and really did not want to be in
the social service industry. So we did feel after working with them that they had a very efficient
way of doing it. Their employees are already trained. They have about an 18-month-- I think it's
an 18-month training program, 18 weeks.
AUDIENCE: 12 weeks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 12 weeks. It's a long period of time. [LAUGHTER] They are going to
have already trained employees working on our account, and then they'll be back-filling their
new employees in their area of expertise. Under the discussion section, we've listed the type of
activities that they're going to be working on for us. So they're going to be providing the
customer service and validation process for applicants who are not eligible automatically through
the Peak system. They're going to be verifying the income and then marking them as to whether
they're eligible or not, so that they can feed automatically through the system then to be getting a
card from us. They'll provide data confidentiality, privacy, and security management. They are-and I don't know if the official word is certified, but they're already a provider through the Peak
system, as well as CBMS. So they already have that arrangement with the state to operate within
that system.
They will participate in audits as requested, but not more than annually, and they will be
providing us reporting on the application review process. They're going to do that for a fee not to
exceed $2 million over five years, or $500,000 a year. This amount-AUDIENCE: Pretty sure it's five.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Over five years, and so $2 million over five years. So this still is
significantly cheaper than what we could do in house. We have estimated that we would still
save over $1 million the first year in implementation and ongoing about $200,000 over our
original estimate with the use of these services and not bringing them in house. So with that, we
would ask for your approval of this contract so we can move forward.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's already been moved and seconded. I have a question.
KENMIHALIK: Yes, Director Folska.
It's already been moved and seconded—but, thank you very much, Heather. That was excellent.
And I'm so excited to see this move forward. I was just wondering-- it occurred to me as you
were describing the functions that this group will do for us, is that the cost for, $400,000 a year,
if there are two people, or 200,000 people?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we've done estimates on how many people we think would be
coming into the system, and based on that and the expertise that Denver has, they have estimated
that it would be anywhere from four to six employees, or at least that amount of time available.
But we can gear up or condense that. So based on the number of applicants, because they already
do this, and they have a very large department already, they can up-size or downsize for us, and
then we'll be charged for the amount of time that it requires them to process those applications.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. And I'm a little confused. You just mentioned Denver. Is it
CDHS, or is it Denver Human Service?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Denver Human Services.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So CDHS is running the Peak service, right, the Peak system?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. State of Colorado runs the Peak system, and then Denver Human
Services is a participant in that system, and they're authorized to access it currently now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. So we're paying 1.8 million to CDHS to use their system and then
2 million over five years, 400,000 a year, for Denver Human Services in addition to the 1.8?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. The couple other-- Director Rivera-Malpiede, I think you had your
hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know if it's the right time to ask questions. I didn't know
it was working. [LAUGHTER] I don't know this is the right time to ask questions about the
process itself or the community. I have a couple of-- and I know logistically this has just been
crazy, but I do have some really serious questions about the process. So I don't know whether I
should bring those up now or at a later time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have an item later on the agenda that talks about the
implementation update. That might be a better time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It might be.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's more expansive.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, at that point-KEN MIHALIK: So then Director Lubow, you're next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. It makes me feel like I'm in school, raising my hand.
It's exciting. There is something in our Board packet that said that I think the money would go

for four to six FTEs, so that means that we are paying for the FTEs in Denver or at the state. Is
that what we're talking about?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. The four to six FTEs, as I mentioned previously, would be for
Denver Human Services, and then it will be expandable and subtract-able depending on how
many services they have to provide on our behalf. It is not the state. It's Denver Human Services.
JUDY LUBOW: And how-- what would we say about our FTE about this? I mean, how much of
our manpower is being used for this in addition to the four to six that we're paying for someone
else?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So currently quite a few man hours, but once we implement, the whole
idea is that we would just be an oversight role, and we would not be requiring any more
resources. We're also looking at a vendor to issue the cards so that we don't have to add
additional resources for the card production. So that's currently in process now also. So the idea
is that we would not increase our FTE staff. We would just be doing oversight of Denver Human
Services and our cards vendor.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. I don't see any other speakers, and so we will vote
again by a show of hands. All those in favor. All those opposed. And let the record show that
Director Menten was the one no vote. Is there anybody on the phone now that may have joined
in the past few minutes? I'm not hearing any. The motion does pass with Director Menten being
a no vote...
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
And the third of four recommended actions reads as such. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg, Holt, and Ullevig to
serve as the contractor for assistance in the preparation of the Transportation Transformation or
T2 Comprehensive, or (Comp) Plan for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511 million. Funding for
this contract is included in the 2019 Adopted Budget for the T2 Comp Plan, and this action
addresses four of the General Manager's goals for 2019, task goal number four to address future
transportation need and method, task goal number three, ensuring fiscal sustainability, core goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services, and core goal number three, strong financial
management, and is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska and Director Broom. Mr. Van Meter, I'll allow you
to take it from here.

BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. This is Bill Van Meter. I'm the General
Manager of the Planning, and joining me on table this evening are Brian Welch, Senior Manager
of Planning Technical Services, and Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. I'm going to provide a brief overview of the recommendation that you just read,
Chair, and the selection process for the consultant team's support and development of the
Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan.
So we've discussed and reviewed this approach, and canvasses of areas for the T2 Comp Plan
with you, with the Board over the past year, including in-depth discussions in February and
March of this year. These discussions, Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee and
the Board Study Sessions informed staff of your priorities in the development of the scope of
work. The scope work was also made available for the Board's information.
So we were pleased to be able to report that late last year, through that competitive DRCOG
Transportation Improvement Program grant process, that DRCOG approved grant funding to
support of this plan in the amount of $1.42 million.
A brief introduction. Brian's going to provide a little bit on the key points in the selection
process, and then Bill Sirois will also discuss our Board-driven stakeholder-engagement
approach just as a brief recap.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair and Members of the Board. I'll briefly highlight the
results of our selection process for this effort. The recommended team is represented here tonight
by the project manager, and the deputy project manager, Holly Buck and Julie Skeen, right there.
And I'll just give you the quick highlights of the selection team's determination. First of all, it's a
Board-driven approach, which is what we had requested in the scope work, and Bill will tell you
more about that specifically. There is a very sophisticated process, extensive process, for
stakeholder engagement, which Bill will highlight. One of the things we were looking for in this
process and this plan and project is local knowledge but with national expertise. And we're very
fortunate.
The team is led by Felsburg, Holt, Ullevig Communication Infrastructure Group. But we've also
managed to get what I was hoping, which are people who represent best practices nationally in
the areas including WSP, which is an international firm, Connetics Transportation Group,
Standard Systematics, both of which have extensive national experience with a comprehensive
operations analysis systems optimization and successful ones in the United States. We also have
Sam Schwartz, which is a firm out of New York that's very well known to us. And we're really
excited about them. We also have economic planning systems, the local firm Walker
Consultants, PDC Research and Consulting, and finally Panasonic City Now.
We have a 22% DBE commitment from this team, which exceeds the district's goal for this
project, which was 18%. And in all of the key areas that we included within the scope, we as a
committee, as a selection committee, concluded that this team was clearly the most highly
qualified both in terms of the firm and the individuals themselves. So with that, I'll hand it off to
Bill to elaborate a little bit more.

BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Brian. Again, this is Bill Sirois, the Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. One of the things that we did really like about the Felsburg Holt approach was the
approach to engaging the Board and having an inclusive decision-making process.
I think that we'll see some early action hopefully this summer where we'll engage you guys to
actually set the direction for the plan. We talk about that a little bit, I think, in our interaction
with the Board study session. I think we plan to follow through that. We're giving overall
direction for that. We also have an extensive engagement process that involves a very robust
committee of stakeholders at a couple of different levels, kind of at a more -- kind of at an
elected-official level as well as at a staff level. So we will have extensive engagement, not only
that, but with also engaging staff throughout the process, as well, because I think some of the
front-line staff be very interested in their input on these critical issues that we're dealing with.
So with that, I think we're done with our overview, and we'll answer any questions that you may
have.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm sure we have a couple. Thank you, gentlemen. Director Lubow, you're first.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you for the presentation. I just have a couple
of questions, one of which is about the money. DRCOG is giving some grant money. Is that
going to be for the contract? So the contract is more than what we are paying-- it is what we're
paying and DRCOG ?
BRIAN WELCH: The combination of our local funds, and DRCOG will provide sufficient
funding for the effort, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: So what's the amount that we're putting in? Is how much?
BRIAN WELCH: We're putting in the $4 million less the 1.42 million that are provided by
DRCOG.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I didn't understand that. Thank you. That's good to hear. OK. And
something else that I interested in has do with-- I think it's wonderful, and it's absolutely essential
to have a lot of feedback, not only from the Board but from the stakeholders, but I'm wondering
if we're also going ask for citizen feedback, too. I bet there's a lot of interest in that.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. Definitely. We will be having major input from the general public, as well.
Throughout the process.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. That's actually an interesting segue that you
mentioned there, something that I was reminded about. I love the systems optimization and
rejecting the status quo, and really kind of taking a fresh look at everything. So I'm not sure
which one of you guys could talk to it, but in this presentation, there was kind of a foregone
conclusion about seeking a tax increase, essentially in future elections. There was Director

Lubow's comment about seeking public input. How -- is it-- is that an area that public input
would be sought after.
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, and to be clear, we did think it responsible for the Board to fully
understand the full array of issues related to the financial future, including TABOR issues as well
as taxes. However, the scope of work should not be interpreted to in any way, shape or form,
imply that that would be a foregone conclusion or even a recommendation. That's a Board
policy, clearly decision that will influence the manner in which the scenarios are even prepared
in the first place. But we thought it would be prudent for you to have that information in front of
you, just so you knew the consequences of some sort of tax-related financing as opposed to all
the other options that they will prepare for your consideration.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you're next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you, Brian. That's really exciting. I was
wondering if you could talk a little bit about how this group is going to integrate the information
that we got from the-- what is it? Was it Blue Print?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
From Mobility Choice? I'm sorry. We have so many things that we've done that it's beginning to
be a little confusing. But how's that going to be integrated into their analysis, along with what the
Board just approved last month that our staff is coming to come back in two months and give us
some really interesting information, and we'll get to use that? Then finally some clarification-the number thing got a little confusing for me, 4 million less the DRCOG. We're putting in 3.3.
DRCOG is putting in 1.4. Is that about right?
BRIAN WELCH: That is correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you.
BRIAN WELCH: And in answer to your question, we regard three or four major things that have
been before the Board or will be as key parts to build upon for this plan, and they would include
Mobility Choice Blueprint and the tactical actions that you can consider that are associated with
RTD as well as our stakeholder partners. Those will definitely be key parts of decisions that we
believe are important to carry forward into the mobility plan for the future. That is work that's
very valuable to the team, and they don't need to replicate that. Another is the finding, that you're
going to hear about later this year, and that would be the First and Last Mile Strategic Plan. That
will provide information that once again does not have to be redone for this effort. We can build
on that.
The regional BRT feasibility study, which will come before the Board of Directors later this
summer, again very valuable information. Some of the transit priority work that we've already
done, looking at some key corridors or enhancements that feeds into the work. So we believe
those all are going to be work that is complementary. In fact, we wrote the scope of work in
manner that it feeds very well, and our team actually worked on some of those very same efforts,

so they know what we already have done and completed and can insert that fairly quickly into
the process.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then finally, I was wondering are you familiar with a group of
students at School of Mines? I actually worked with them and spent the day with them a little,
but they gave a presentation at the end of their capstone project on way finding. Joshua Urbonas
was the lead of the academic team, and somebody here has been working with them on the
database of information for way finding. Do you know anything about that?
BRIAN WELCH: I don't. But I will certainly follow up on that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And then, I would like you all to consider something. We talk about
TODs and TOCs, and it seems to me that they're really disconnected to what's going on in a
community. And I think it might be appropriate to instead of calling it a transit oriented
development, it's a pedestrian oriented environment. That's all. Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Anybody else? Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. I was just wondering in light of what you were saying,
how is T2, which is such a visionary thing, going to be incorporating FasTracks and the
resolution that the Board just passed about FasTracks?
BRIAN WELCH: Certainly. Well, we look forward to building upon what will be presented to
you in June. That's going to be very good information to extend. I would say that there's two key
parts of the T2 Comp plan that are going to-- at least two, but many that directly look at
FasTracks. So we look at this as an opportunity to maximize the FasTracks investment. So we
know that FasTracks alone, when completed, cannot meet the demands that are going to be put
on our systems, rubber, tire, and other things. So we need to use this study as a launch point to
see how we can make these investments that are completed and the ones we're going to make
even more robust. That'll be a key part, because all the future scenarios are going to assume that
we have FasTracks program completed, when we look at the horizon here. The fiscal and
financial sustainability analysis, however, will provide this work that will be done, led by WSP,
that's again going to be another opportunity to build upon what the staff presents to you in June
on an overall financial strategy for the district looking into the future. And that could reveal yet
even more interesting and potential strategies to complete the program as envisioned by the 2004
FasTracks.
So they're very much linked together. And again, I think that's a good extension of work that's
already underway that will be pulled forward by our consulting team and at the Board's direction.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, and I have one more question, if you don't mind. Something I just
didn't understand, it's going to be a two-year program, but the system optimization plan is going
to be unfolded in 12 months, so I don't understand how that interacts.

BRIAN WELCH: That's correct. It's our direction, and we think that this is the thing that the
Board wants to see sooner rather than later. So we have set up the work program. There's 22,000
hours of work all together. However, we are going to emphasize bringing to you this
comprehensive assessment of RTD services, which looks at our bus and rail, and we've talked to
you about that before, but what we want to do is within one year's time approximately is come
back to the Board, so you have a more immediate opportunity to begin considering that part of
the effort, and then we can look at some of the other things later, the mobility plans for the
future, which we don't regard on a timetable as urgent as we wanted to get to you this other part
first.
And the consultant team has agreed that that is feasible, so they will use their resources. And you
can anticipate, as Bill hinted at, that we're going to have to get going on that right away with
some very important decision points for the Board of Directors to get that to you so we can
complete it within a year's time.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I ask what some examples of system optimization would be as opposed to
the more long-term results that are going to come later?
BRIAN WELCH: Well, certainly. There's-- I think on the rail side, and I'm just-- this is purely
hypothetical. But as you know, our rail system has grown over time, and it's that added to in an
incremental fashion that's been logical and has made sense. But we've added it corridor by
corridor, and we have C, D, F, H, R just on light rail. Well, if you have a consultant team come
in and look at the manner in which we operate light rail, working with the Board, they may
recommend that we consider different operating plans overall for how we run light rail.
I don't know that they'll do that. I don't know that that's something that the Board would want to
entertain, but maybe they could. Maybe they could find out ways to get more efficiency added to
our light rail system, and I think you know on the rubber tire, on the bus side, there's-- it's really
the-- let me compare the short term and the longer term.
In the short term, the effort would be to get a discussion going to deal with these fundamental
issues of coverage versus frequency versus ridership versus demand. You have a big district.
We've got everything from Niwot to the Denver Central Business District and everything in
between. It's a huge area. You deal with this every run board, you know what it's like to try and
balance those.
So in the short term, there will be recommendations from a fiscal and financial point of view as
well as a ridership point of view based on your input, because this is really where you will be
making some key policy guidance for the team that could result in revisiting how some of the
routes are done, the type of service we have, the size of the vehicle.
Then what would branch off into the future is, if you so choose to make some decisions for the
short term, it may be that we need to look at different ways of providing some of our services in
other parts of the district where maybe a 40-foot bus is not the best way to do it. So that would be
the mobility plan for the future, but the initial recommendation would be perhaps how you want
to balance coverage versus demand versus frequency versus ridership to address the issues you

know there in front of us in terms of ridership, bus operator shortages, all those kind of issues.
And does that answer the question?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Yes. Thank you. Sounds like a really interesting process.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thanks, Director Lubow. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I really like the idea that we're taking a fresh look
at all of the systems with an eye toward the future. And I think that's really good. I haven't read
this proposal. I think we have an opportunity, and I plan to take advantage of that opportunity to
do so. But I know how hard it is to select consultants for such an big scope of work, and having
been on the other side of the aisle, I really appreciate the local firm taking the lead. I think it's
great that we have that local ownership, but it's backed up with considerable bench strength from
a national perspective, many of the firms I've worked with. And so I think that there's a great
deal of technical expertise and a great deal that they bring to the table for lessons learned in other
agencies.
So I know how difficult it is, and I'm sure we probably would have been well served with either
of the firms, and I'm looking forward to getting started on this project. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I would like to go back to the question that Chair Mihalik
asked. And in looking at the proposal and the line item breakout of where the hours would be
dedicated to a certain purpose or another.
And thinking through the specific line item that was titled Potential Future Elections, which has a
line item total of about a $25,000 expenditure. Where did that generate from? I wasn't quite
clear. Was that a staff directive within the scope? Because I did focus more on reading proposals
versus sitting down with, line by line, on the scope presented to the contractors.
So what was the genesis of that to start with?
BRIAN WELCH: The request for proposals included a number of different elements. And that
was one of them. And that was the consultant's judgment on roughly of the $4 million, or
3,999,511, that they felt was appropriate for that particular aspect of the work.
We did not specify dollar amounts to that level, however. We did it at a much, a much more
general in our internal cost estimate.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so let me just-- with the wording that was in the scope, it was
something along the line of what is the taste for a tax increase? How are you going to measure it?
Will you put work into it-- what is this $25,000 going towards?
BRIAN WELCH: It's mainly to look at what the financial and fiscal issues would be associated
with a tax increase. There is no intent to do any specific research or work to test that question,

Director Menten. It's more of an analytical look at financial rather than at voter preference for
things like that.
We're looking to the Board of Directors to indicate how much you want to emphasize that
particular part of a future scenario for the district. But they will quantify what the likely impacts
could be for us. That's really the limit of it. Similar with TABOR, because those are two issues
that are inherent in a district funded, of course, the way we are.
NATALIE MENTEN: Mm-hmm. All right, so I'm going to have to be a no vote tonight on this
because one, we had the original discussion back at the Board retreat, I in no way envisioned that
we would be looking at nearly a $5 million process.
I really thought it would be more in-house and streamlining. And really the folks that are on the
ground day to day-- and know that we've got routes that's very hard to justify current service
levels and streamlining along that line.
But then do you see now with a line item that says something specifically, as I saw with my own
eyes, potential future elections, and to know that $25,000, for some people, they may think that's
a small amount. I can't vote for that. That's not at all what I even wanted to peak at.
And because I just feel that that would be a waste of money. I think the voters out there,
especially looking at Boulder and some other areas, are not going to be nearly as supportive as
they were in 2004 because why, I don't think I even need to explain why.
But for me, thank you for explaining a little more about that line item and the background. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: I think there was one more response. Director Cook, you will be next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Are you going to be bringing forward a plan for
engagement of all the groups that you talked about including the Board? And when will see that,
if so?
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, well one of the first tasks that we do, once we get the consultants on board,
is to come up with a public involvement plan that we'll kind of detail that out, including-- we
eventually plan to come back to the Board with kind of that detail.
Another thing that we do plan, I think it's in the scope, is that basically every two months, we
will have an update on the process. And even if we also expect that there will be Board members
that will be actively involved in some of the committees, but certainly not all the Board, but we
plan to come back to the Board regularly to engage and get input on things as we go along.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Great. And then the second thing is-- and I've already brought this up,
but just to underscore-- I think we're doing a great job of looking at, for example, the potential
for new revenues, whether they are from tax payers or through creative approaches, or grants or
whatnot.

And I know our staff already has a stellar job of keeping an eye on the cost. But I am interested
in looking at revenues, fare revenues in particular, holding the other pieces constant, in other
words, not assuming this every three-year increase and looking at ways that we can maybe
maximize or improve our picture there.
So just within not assuming we have to go to taxpayers, not assuming that we have to ask our
riders to pay more, but see if there isn't a strategic approach in there that this brain trust can
explore for us.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, we certainly have robust in-house capabilities when it comes to those
issues. But we're fortunate that the team that we're recommending to you has-- I looked at some
of their qualifications on previous work that they've done in this very area of fiscal-- for major,
what we would call, an agency similar to us in terms of size and complexity, t they have faced
similar types of issues involved.
But they don't translate directly. I think the fact that they've done very similar work and had to
face these very similar kinds of questions is going to be beneficial for us because we can learn
from some of those other agencies around the United States and how they tackle some of the
very same challenges.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Cook. I'm trying to keep up with everybody. I think,
Director Folska, you were next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Mihalik. Brian, thank you so much. I think
this is excellent to take a methodical approach to what we are going to do next and how we're
going to right size this agency in order to serve most of the needs of everyone in the district. And
there are some really big challenges ahead.
I was wondering regarding Director Menten's questioning of the line item regarding $25,000,
wouldn't that really be for polling to determine whether the voters had the appetite for a tax
increase or not?
BRIAN WELCH: No, we would not intend that we use RTD funds for that purpose whatsoever.
The potential future elections was only included in there for analytical purposes in terms of the
likely financial and fiscal consequences of pursuing that particular funding.
However, there is no intent to use any of those funds for that purpose whatsoever. It's assigned to
the consultant that is doing fiscal and financial sustainability, not to anybody on the team who
would be responsible for doing engagement outreach and communication.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Good evening, gentlemen. I just want to say for
the record that I've worked with FHU a bunch. They are well-known in the community. They

really have a lot of local knowledge in terms of transportation. Right down at the grassroots
level.
So I think that they will bring that outlook to this in addition to the knowledge that our people
have. I'm tickled to hear that they'll be doing that. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin, you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: You mentioned that it was going to be a Board-driven approach. And that
was one of the reasons we selected this team. As such, that $25,000 tax that is in question could
certainly be directed by input from the Board. Am I correct?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, you are. Yes, absolutely. And to wrap up what I started, that was the key
strength of this team is they recognized this is a Board-driven-- it's full of very fundamental
policy decisions. And we thought that their approach to that was they understood exactly what
we were looking for in their request for proposal.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might Chair? I guess my point is that if there are some concerns that it
might be the tail wagging the dog in terms of pushing for an election, that the Board can
certainly give direction as to where we want to go with any kind of creative financing.
BRIAN WELCH: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Catlin. And yes, you can log in now and it is working as it
should. Director Rivera-Malpiede. And you can actually move the speaker queue if you care to, I
think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So a couple of things-- I'm really pleased with the DBE goal. I
think that that is fabulous. But when you were talking about one of the reasons that you wanted
to select this group is that they think outside of the box and they've had experiences developing
strategies that were different. Can you just give me an example of something?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, I would say-- I'll just highlight one of the team members, Joe Iacobucci,
who is from Sam Schwartz. I've heard him speak before a number of times. And I was really
pleased that he's on the team. He has come up with some of the most creative solutions for how a
public transit agency can work in a complementary way with many of the emerging mobility
options, such as transportation network companies and what we refer to as the scooters and
bikes.
And there are things that I have not heard coming out of, say, the West Coast or Colorado but
things that have been-- that MTA in New York has had to deal with. And that's an example of
where we will hear about something innovative, creative that we may not otherwise have.

And not only that, but we'll have that understanding of how it could apply to a district like RTD.
But there are other team members, including Connetics Transportation Group, and Cambridge
Systematics. I'll give you another example with Cambridge Systematics that everybody was
impressed with.
They have developed some very creative ways using anonymized hashed driver characteristics
that are-- to better really understand where congestion is in the network. That is an innovative
tool that big transit agencies are using right now to optimize and understand where congestion is
now and in the future to better select the best way to provide the bus service of the future.
And that is something that's been associated with Cambridge Systematics that they've used
successfully in other places. I would say that's another example that we're currently not really
using here, yet. But I think it's going to be very beneficial for us.
KEN MIHALIK: And we are back to the speaker queue. Director Folska, you're up.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Thank you very much, Chair Mihalik. I'm really grateful for
this opportunity. I don't know if you guys have seen-- you probably have. I think it's been pretty
interesting and exciting that Brussels, Paris, and Madrid are banning all private vehicles in their
city centers. Did you know that?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Chair Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to add my voice to those
who are speaking in support of the selection of Felsburg, Holt, and Ullevig. I've worked with the
firm in different capacities as an elected official and in private practice for the past 25 years or
so.
I find them to be an exceptional choice. So I appreciate that. I will be supporting the motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. I'll just say I'll be a reluctant yes because it shouldn't be the
fault of Felsburg, Holt, and Ullevig that they responded to the solicitation in that manner. I wish
we had divorced all the optimizations stuff from even having that paragraph in there about the
exploring additional tax options.
They shouldn't be faulted for responding completely to the solicitation. I think it's just -wish we'd
seen that earlier. And like you said, we can try to address that earlier. But my position will be
that we don't seek any type of additional tax increase. I don't see any other questions. I'll check
with on the phone, anyone on the phone that may have joined us.
I don't think so. We will proceed with the vote on your computer box in front of you.

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: We'll do the old-fashioned electronic. The mover was Director Folska and
Director Broom was the second.
AUDIENCE: Is it up yet?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mm-hmm.
KEN MIHALIK: It should be up now.
AUDIENCE: There it goes.
KEN MIHALIK: And let the record reflect out of 13 votes, 12 yeses and one no being Director
Menten, and this does pass. Thank you, all. And moving on to these last of the recommended
actions this evening, as recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee that the Board of Directors approved through revised RTD Board of Directors
Governor's Manual-- or Governance Manual.
As presented to the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, the Chair further recommends
that should additional changes be made going forward, any of the documents containing
dependencies to the governance manual, which changes nec-- necet-- necessitates-KATE WILLIAMS: [CHUCKLING]
KEN MIHALIK: --nonsubstantive administrative or ministerial changes to the Manuel itself,
Board office staff be permitted to incorporate those corresponding changes to the Governance
Manual without a need for further Board approval. And this recommendation is consistent with
the General Managers 2019 core goal number two of strong and ethical leadership.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: [INAUDIBLE] Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DIRECTOR WHITMORE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Was that Director Whitmore. Chair Tisdale, since this is your recommended
action, I'll allow you to further elaborate, if necessary.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. I think most of the
changes are self-explanatory. Several things have been brought to the attention of this speaker as
well as others. [COUGHS] Excuse me.
Courtesy of the fine attention paid to this by Director Menten. And so I did want to point out
that. [COUGHS] Excuse me. Relative to the first textual page, which is found at page 147 of

your Board packet, you will see in the second to last numbered paragraph that addresses how our
public official disclosure law.
That statement, as contained even in the revised draft here on page 147, is in error. And a
recommendation was made to change that. And I will allow, of course, Director Menten to speak
to her own. But I think even that change perhaps overstates the case. And General Counsel has
advised that we would be well served by making the following change.
So if I can just articulate it, not even as a motion, just articulate it and make sure there's an
understanding. And then we can proceed with the possibility of amending. The paragraph would
read, I suggest, "How our public official disclosure evolves. As elected officials, comma, RTD
directors must comply with any applicable provisions of the Colorado Public Official Disclosure
Law comma, which may require disclosure of certain financial information period." That would
be the end of the sentence.
The reason for that is that the law actually is clear that we do not, as directors, have an obligation
under the Public Official Disclosure Law to file a statement concerning our business and real
estate interests nor, in fact it appears, are we constrained by the Colorado Constitution
Amendment Article XXIX or Colorado Revised Statute Section 24-6-203 because the Colorado
Independent Ethics Commission has ruled that we are not subject to the terms of those
provisions.
We do, however, have our own ethics code that constrains us. And I will ask General Counsel to
comment on that at some point. But I just wanted to put this one on the table first. I will also
suggest there have been some other suggestions regarding fees for response to CORA request
and also these for-- well, both of them relate to that-- the hourly rate to be charged and charge
per page for electronic records.
Those I'll leave and come back to momentarily. The overall focus of this is to create an
introductory memo to the Governance Manual, which is a compilation of the various laws,
policies, and procedures that govern our work. So we have in one place.
Part of what you have in your current resource manual is this Governance Manual. The idea is to
pull everything out and, pursuant to the appendix that's listed, consolidate everything in one
place. And then add some of those other documents as well.
That's the purpose behind this. And as I said, relative to the one item, the change in the Colorado
Public Official Disclosure Law, with the Chair's permission, I will yield to General Counsel if he
would care to respond to the suggestion I have made that we could have this read to comply with
any applicable provisions of the Colorado Public Official Disclosure Law, comma, which may
require disclosure of certain financial information.
With your permission Chair, I will yield.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. Yes, the
current status of RTD and directors be governed by Amendment 41. And it's colloquially known
as Article XXIX in the Colorado Constitution is that we are not subject to it.
We did receive a ruling by the Independent Ethics Commission. We're not subject to it. And the
courts have held that the Independent Ethics Commission's decision restricting their jurisdiction
subject to appeal in the courts. So we essentially have binding decisions in that regard.
I did get some requests recently asking that-- because there was some confusion. Some Directors
had received notices saying, this is a reminder that you're required to file your compliance
document. And in particular, listing your gifts and honoraria.
I sent an email to the Colorado Secretary of State's office back over a month ago now. First, I did
a lot of research to confirm that, in my opinion, there does not need to be listing of specific gifts
or honoraria because it ties back to Amendment 41 for which we are no longer applicable.
And if all of the other authorities that I could find and discuss this issue with prior to this
decision. And assume that RTD, they didn't specifically reference the RTD. But the assumption
was that we would be subject to this. You as directors would be subject to this.
To be on the safe side, I emailed the Secretary of State's office to explain that we did not think
that we were subject to this requirement and asking them to contact me if they had any problems
with that. I haven't heard anything yet. I'll go ahead and just remind them and probably do a
phone call just to make sure that they are fine with this.
Because if they wanted us to list gifts and honoraria, fine, we can do that. But it does not appear
that there is a legal obligation to do that. This is an example of the kinds of systems in flux right
now. I think that that kind of language is, if there is unanimous consent to change that, we could
do it that way-- would be appropriate because then you don't have to mess with the Governance
Manual.
If in fact I come back to you later and say, I'm confirming that you are not subject to it. I'm
confirming that there is a difference of opinion with the Secretary of State. And we're going to
have to work this through. By the same token, there are some other things in the Manual that are
not substantive in nature but that could change over time.
For example, the Manual talks about all of the parts of the of the open records act and gives a lot
of bullet points. Well, those may change due to statutory changes. It doesn't really make sense to
go back to the Board to make changes of that nature to a resource manual if the laws change and
if there's nothing the Board can do about it.
Same thing with the reference in the first page to 58% privatizing up to 58% of non-rail service.
Well, that's a statutory provision. If that changes, does the Board need to go back in motion to
change the resource manual? And if you pass this general motion, then that empowers Ms.
McManus and her staff to make those kinds of ministerial changes with notice to the Board that

those changes are being made so that if anyone does have an objection, they can certainly make
that objection known.
KEN MIHALIK: Very good. Is there any objection to-- well, I guess we'll finish. Speaker, to
you.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chair, if I can accept the yield back from the General Counsel. I
wanted that explanation first and would, respectfully at this time, make a motion to amend my
main motion. The amendment would be to modify the third numbered paragraph on page 2 of 11
of the proposal, which is page 147 in your packet, to read, "As elected officials’ comma, RTD
directors must comply with any applicable provisions of the Colorado Public Official Disclosure
Law comma, which may require disclosure of certain financial information period." And that
would be the end of the sentence.
That's my motion. Is there a second?
AUDIENCE: Present.
KEN MIHALIK: Of the speakers in the queue, are any of you interested in speaking on this
amendment to the main motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Folska, you are-- I'm sorry. We're using the speaker. I know I
asked for a hand. But Director Williams, I was making sure of the speakers in the queue are
listed. Director Williams, you're up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm a little-- I don't have a law degree. I have a little bit
of a hard time keeping up with what we're changing. I have been adhering to this policy for the
last, I don't know, 30 months or something now.
So am I to take it now on record that I don't have to do that anymore, regardless of the fact that I
got a notice from the Secretary of State saying that I should do it as I have in the past? Does
anybody with a law degree want to speak to that?
[LAUGHTER]
AUDIENCE: You had to file-KATE WILLIAMS: I get a notice every so often. I've gotten one since November of 2016.
KEN MIHALIK: I will let the General Counsel respond to that.
AUDIENCE: --to the financial disclosure.
KATE WILLIAMS: It says--

KEN MIHALIK: --gifts and honoraria.
KATE WILLIAMS: Gifts and honoraria that I have to report if I got any that have a value. It's a
pretty standard thing. And so are you tell me now that I don't have to do that, right?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. And I had understood the fact
that my previous email I just sent out to all of the Directors giving that advice. Because if it
hadn't, I'll make sure that it does. My recommendation was that you just have to put not
applicable in that area where they ask you to list gifts and honoraria.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not the one you forwarded today, but the one you forwarded in the
past was sent to all directors.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I just wanted to have that question on record that I received legal
counsel that I do not need to answer that. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Mihalik. Regarding the recording of gifts
and honoraria, I mean, I've spoken with the Secretary of State. And it's very clear that if you
don't have any, you don't need to record it. If you do, well, it's recommended but they were like,
eh, it's not that important. But it will be interesting to see how that comes out.
With regard to the governance, Chair Tisdale, I am interested-- Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So we're looking at the governance booklet. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: With the Chair's permission, I'll respond yes. This is relative to the
Governance Manual.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so that's all I needed to know. Thank you. But then, Rolf, you were
talking about a resource manual. And to me, a resource manual is very different than governance.
But beyond all of that, I mean, we've got our Colorado statute that tells us what our rights, duties,
and responsibilities are to this agency and as an elected official.
We have the Board Bylaws that were recently approved, right? This governance, we have
another thing. I think this is getting to be very cumbersome and tedious. And really the only
thing that matters is what the state calls decision, that that trumps all of these other things.
Why are we getting so litigious about this? I mean, it's good to straighten it out. But I would be
very pleased to see it more streamlined instead of one after the other after the other. But this is a
governance thing, not a resource manual. Can you address that, please, Chair Tisdale?

KEN MIHALIK: You may, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: With the Chair's permission, thank you. The Governance Manual is intended
to be and is a compilation of the documents that control us in terms of the RTD Act, our Bylaws,
our adopted policies. The resource manual also contains the RTD Act, the Bylaws, our adopted
policies.
The idea is we've always had these two. And we've always referred to them. One is the
Governance Manual. One is the resource manual. I spoke with Board office staff today. And our
hope is that we will actually have just one book and only one copy of each of these various
things in that book.
So the Governance Manual will become a part of the resource manual. It will have, and if you
look further in your Board packet, the appendix is listed. And it is found in your Board packet at
page-- somebody help me out. Here we are. Page 155 lists the appendices.
And again, it's the RTD Act, the Bylaws, other laws, the ethics rules, and so forth. And then the
balance of the resource manual will be other material that is currently contained in the resource
manual but that isn't specifically part of the governance.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So why are we voting on this?
DOUG TISDALE: We're adopting, pursuant to the state audit, we were required to have, from
2010, we were required to have a governance manual. We have had one. We have not updated it
to address some of these things. And as we state in the Action Memorandum, we did want to
clean up language typos, correct the current date relative to certain information, and render it
consistent with our other documents.
So we literally have been going through, over the past several months, a series of cleanups on
our written documents.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much for that explanation. I think that's helpful. I, for
one, would not be willing to entertain a yes vote on this simply because I don't-- if it needs our
approval today, it should need our approval moving forward. And so I would not be inclined,
although I agree with all the other elements that are in here.
I am not in support of just giving our authority as a Board to our administration-- our Board
administrators-- just to do it without the Board's consent today or in the future. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Next up is Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to just address the amendment again that I
think it starts off by saying RTD Directors must comply with this. It may apply. I'm wondering
why we wouldn't just-- if we have an Ethics opinion that says it doesn't apply to us. And we have
a court that said the Ethics opinion is final.

It seems to me like we're more protected if we state that than-- and I wouldn't consider a change
to be administrative, I think, if it's a change in that kind of a law. I would suggest maybe moving
that direction.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The only reason that I would suggest
we put it in is that it is completely protected. Should there be a later court decision that says,
opinions or rulings by the Independent Ethics Commission are not binding opinions, we can go
back. We don't have to do anything.
We just say, we've said all along, we will comply with any applicable provisions of the law. And
then we give notice to people, which may require disclosure of certain financial information. I
think it is, if you will, a more conservative or more protective approach to say that. And I would
suggest that it serves our best interest to do so.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I --It's just that I'm not totally opposed to it. But it feels to me like
we're more protected if we just say, and we have this opinion. And for now, if it's a change in our
compliance requirements, we've got to deal with it, right.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I do want to speak to that last point in that I don't think the IEC, or
Independent Ethics Committee-- it's very questionable when they're -- when they are issuing a
ruling. But I know right now, as it stands, looking at the language, we've got five voters. We
certainly have incorrect information.
But I tend to feel that we do fall under a requirement to-- what I read today and other days-- the
gifts and honoraria. But for me, I'm not taking any. So now six years later, I've never followed
the report because I've never taken anything that fell under it.
So I think we feel pretty safe as far as what the language that's presented is. Almost said it's up to
each Board director to determine almost their own interpretation of it, frankly. Board retains
perhaps a personal attorney. Or maybe they want to believe the Independent Ethics Committee.
But they've done some other things that I don't necessarily think I would want to stand behind.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm going to let General Counsel straighten us all out.
[LAUGHTER]
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well, Chair Mihalik. There's certainly no penalty to listing any sort of gifts
or honoraria if you don't have to. I would not be telling you you don't have to if I wasn't firmly of
the opinion, based on everything that I have researched and seen, that you no longer have to base
on Amendment 41.

I would be saying that would not be a conservative thing to do is say, well, I don't think you have
to. I think that the conservative approach would be to go ahead and do it. I've assured several
directors personally that I've seen nothing in the law now that requires them to do this.
It's also very clear that the Independent Ethics Commission now, based on a binding court
opinion, does have the ability to define its jurisdiction. And it has flatly stated that RTD is not
subject to Amendment 41. Be that as it may, there's still conflicting-- you've received what you
received in the emails from the Secretary of State office.
I believe that that's what you received is simply that they haven't focused on RTD. And they're
sending out a mass email to everybody who's local elected officials. I've written to them a month
ago to confirm that. I would have expected it because I've detailed this some degree. I would
have expected to have heard back immediately if there was anyone there who had concerns who
said, no, you do need to do this. And I would have let you know. I haven't heard anything. But
again, I'll continue to check and get a flat, yes, you do from somebody. But there is absolutely
nothing that I see that requires Directors to do this at this time. I don't even see it as a good
question.
All that being said, the motion that is currently in front is simply to provide latitude so that,
depending on if something does change in this or some other provision of the Public Official
Disclosure Law, it can be changed without having to go back to the Board to change the
Governance Manual.
KEN MIHALIK: Motion to amend or simply to apply applicable law. In this case, General
Counsel says it's not applicable. But yes, Director Menten, you still have the-NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, I just want to follow up. I seem to remember some years ago
the SOS sent us a message that said you are required. And I remember calling-- I think it was
Steve Ward or one of the regular and good contacts there at SOS and saying, nope. And he said,
yeah, you're right.
So then it went to if you need to. So I'm happy with whichever direction this is going. Everybody
understands this is wrong right now. Something must need to change. So I'm happy with how the
discussion goes one way or the other, even if it means tabling this for a month while we wait for
the SOS to respond.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker, you are next.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'll be supporting the motion to amend numbered paragraph three for
the reasons that Mr. Asphaug stated. If something does change in the law within the next month,
within the next year, five years, this discussion doesn't have to happen again because it does
apply to any, it addresses any applicable law.
If it's not applicable, these items that won't be specified in it-- nothing needs to be done. Or
something needs to be done. But this document, this discussion doesn't have to happen again. No
amendment would have to take place. We just follow whatever is applicable.

If there's confusion and we find out-- that it's addressed, this doesn't have to be amended again.
And I think that saves everybody time. You just, as far as this goes, you just do what is needed to
be done, what is required. So I'll be supporting this motion that's on the table. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Call the question.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will vote on the motion to amend Chair Tisdale's modified language. I
did not write it all down.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, we're just voting on-- I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: On the amendment.
KENMIHALIK: The amendment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Okay. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And this passes 10 to three. The three no votes-- Director Guissinger, Director
Folska, Director Williams. And now we are back to the-- I'm sorry, I did not-- I think I got that
right, Director Tisdale as the mover, Director Rivera-Malpiede as the second. I think I got that
right, thank you. Now we're back to the main motion. If there's any other discussion on that?
SHELLY COOK: Actually, I did want make-KEN MIHALIK: Sorry, Director Cook. Yes, go ahead.
SHELLY COOK: With apologies to the Executive Committee. I don't mean to make a motion
tonight. But I wanted to because of the portion of the Governance Manual that is not taken up
elsewhere. I thought it would be worth looking at. And it would be a proposed change to the first
paragraph. And let me get to the right page here.
It's under Board Development toward the end. It's on page 9 of 11. And it's packet page 154. So
just to quickly summarize, this title, Board Member Development, in fact. The first paragraph
takes up, first of all, establishing the responsibility of the manager and the staff to provide
information and give us the backup that we need in order to be well informed and a good
stewards of our charge.
And then it goes into expectations of the Board itself. I wanted to suggest the possibility of
rewording to do a couple of things. One, the second sentence, I felt like probably related better to
the things that the General Manager and his or her staff do to provide information.
They facilitate committee meetings. They prepare Board documents. And they conduct one-onones with us as needed. And then the next sentence says, Board members are highly encouraged
to read the material, familiarize themselves, et cetera.

And I wanted to suggest we say, are highly encouraged and in fact is expected to read the
material, attend the meetings, familiarize ourselves with the current program status. And it's kind
of picking up on an email that Director Williams had sent through.
Be attentive to industry issues and trends. We have the next paragraph that deals with APTA
specifically. But there are many ways that we can do that. And so if we're just establishing a
norm here of we expect we would like to do, I wanted to propose a change. And part of that is
just clarifying the things that are done.
Part of it is just setting an expectation for what we do. But I also wanted to insert some language
in here that talks about a timely preparation of the materials that are presented to us. So just
establishing that as a norm as well. I'll hand this out and then kind of sound you out between now
and the Board meeting and just decide whether to take it up based on that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I personally appreciate this language.
And I appreciate the opportunity to review it before the Board meeting because we could simply
adopt this tonight and then consider it as an amendment at that time. And I think that's fine.
I did want to speak preemptively, if I may. I do believe that the balance of the document is, in
fact, a good updating and cleaning up. And that's all it was intended. It was not intended to try to
change the structure of anything but to update and clean up.
And relative to the recommendations that have been made informally amongst others and may be
brought forth formally, concerning A, the charge for responses to so-called CORA, the Colorado
Open Records Act requests. In terms of the $30 per hour, I think General Counsel has advised
me, at least, and I think perhaps others, that this is simply a statement of what the RTD practice
is.
It is not necessarily having anything to do with setting that or changing it. So the motion isn't
intended to address that. However, I was also made aware of the fact that this document says on
page 148 in the section-- that is the series of bullet points concerning the Colorado Open Records
Act-- RTD will provide, free of charge, an electronic copy.
And then if it's too large, you have to pay for the DVD or a thumb drive or something. I am now
made aware apparently that our practice is, even though we say we provide these free of charge,
that we actually charge $0.25 a page for electronic documents. So if we have a PDF file that is
100 pages long and we just email it to Fred or Barney, we charge Fred or Barney $25 to get that
100-page file that we just emailed.

And I want to, I have to admit that I do have some concern about. I didn't think we were doing
that. But it does say, in any event, our policy is-- it says, RTD will provide, free of charge, those
electronic copies. So at least that's there. And I guess we're just making staff aware of it.
I apologize for rambling on this. We were presented with these proposed revisions earlier. I
wanted to speak to them so as to allow Director Menten to bring forth wherever she wishes to
and maybe expedite the discussion. I would be in favor of simply leaving alone the dollar charge.
Let that go.
But I would like to hear some further comment from General Counsel relative to charging for
electronic copies. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. Chairman.
SHELLY COOK: Sorry to have jumped ahead of Natalie.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Director Menten, you're next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So yes, for a little more detail, if anybody did not get a
chance, you would have a three-page-- well, add a couple extra copies.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Every Director has a copy, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Every copy. So it would be the one where you're going to see a little table
that has a chart of the fees that we currently send to somebody when they submit a public open
record request to us. And I would be very happy to have the Board's agreement, or at least the
majority, in approving direction for the staff in that our policy as present on the website.
And send to anybody who submits an open records request is that electronic copies are free and
not $0.25 per page. And the only item, or the way that may be different is if the file size was so
large that you could not send it by email. We would copy it to a USB device or a CD or a DVD.
And I won't even go into arguing about $5 for this type of disk or 15 for this disk. I would
consider it a win tonight just to know that Board's direction is that we provide free electronic
copies to our constituents or whoever else may ask.
And I don't know that this needs a vote because we're not changing anything. This is a--Here's
what the Board of Governance Manual already says. And please make the CORA policy match
with that.
KEN MIHALIK: General Counsel, do you want to weigh in?
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug again. The Colorado Open Records Act-- responses are
done by the Information Governance and Management Division, which is the division of the
Department of General Counsel. For several years now, that division has charged as Director
Tisdale indicated, $0.25 per page for an electronic copies.

That's something that if it is sent to the Board that we don't want to do that. We can discuss that
and go ahead and make that change as part of a procedural change. Our procedures include right
now $0.25 per page for any copies, electronic or paper.
They include $30 an hour for time needed to review. And they include that we don't give fee
waivers. We've had requests occasionally from certain members of the public or media saying,
will you give us a waiver? And staff has not want to be in the position of choosing winners and
losers as far as giving waivers.
$30 an hour-- well, I talked with Director Menten a little bit before this meeting. We said,
perhaps this would be a good time for us to give a presentation at an upcoming Board meeting
about our Open Records Act procedures and how we're handling open records questions through
GovQA, which has been extremely well-received by the public and by the press.
But I manage that department. If there's a general sense of the Board that the idea of charging for
electronic copies is something you'd rather us not have to do. I agree. You don't have to have a
motion to that effect. It's something that staff can do on its own initiative.
We're not talking a huge money stream here. I do think that the changes of the $30 an hour-- I
don't know, in fact, how many hours we spend. It's quite a few hours. Changes to that could be
financially something that is noticeable, but I don't think this would be a significant amount.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I want to point out two things. I'm OK that beyond an
hour. So anything that we can do in terms of CORA or providing information within an hour, we
do do for no charge. I don't have a problem, as it says, $30 an hour for a longer time.
I also do not have a problem with the wording that is there. It says, and I quote, "RTD will
provide, free of charge, an electronic copy." Good. If file sizes are too large-- key wording-- you
may be required. It does not say you will be. It says you may be required to pay this specific
amount.
Then it says, black and white photocopies are $0.25 for a standard page, which is par for the
course. So I'm OK with all of that if we are expressing the fact that we don't generically want to
charge because we are going to send an electronic copy. And if the file sizes are too large we
may.
And what I hear us saying is we feel like we may not. So I don't think we need to change
anything there. Thank you for your time and your ears.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. I like the interest in the how much a quarter for
per page brings up. But Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Mihalik. I don't know about Director
Williams, but I think she does have a law degree. I mean may, shall, will--

KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So you might be hiding some information. I think, then, what I would like
to see-- I think one of the challenges that we're facing in America and in local governments as
well is trust and transparency of our elected officials.
KATE WILLIAMS: Amen.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I think that making information available and not building
roadblocks to prohibit people because the expense is so high. We have a reputation. And it hasn't
been looking so good lately. And I think that just eliminating barriers to access to information
and including the $30.
Maybe a lesser price would be reasonable. But $30 feels unreasonable. I understand that we have
a lot of staff time, that we have a huge marketing team, information, communication-- I know it's
in your jurisdiction there, Rolf. But it seems to me that we owe it to our district, all of our
constituents.
And I hope that, when you think about some of the files that people ask for, some of them are
those CAD documents of buildings and structures and photos. And they can be really huge. But
they're one. It could be a district or you know-- or some details. So the size of the electronic file
seems kind of irrelevant, too.
I think we should consider the reputational risk and our trust and transparency moving forward.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And again, we're still on the main motion discussion. Simply, do
we want to align the staff or the district's pricing with the existing Governance Manual-- just
clarifying that. Director Broom, you are next.
BOB BROOM: I was just going to speak to the fact that these are designed to cover the cost of
providing something. And there are situations where you have some news organizations or
somebody else who wants to become a big time pest. That are going to request everything under
the sun. And you've got attorneys looking at these requests because you have certain information
you have to protect.
And the $30 an hour is just there to cover that cost. So I don't know. I haven't gotten a single
complaint about this from anybody at this point in time about what we charge. So I wouldn't be
inclined to change it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm wondering if the electronic copy means that a person has to scan
those hard copies and create a PDF, for instance. And then it can be delivered to the person as an
electronic format that originated as a hard copy.

So I understand this concern about delivering-- charging somebody for an electronic copy. But
the effort that goes into making an electronic copy, whether it comes out as another paper copy
or as a scanned. I think that might be what this is addressing.
If it starts out as a PDF, like a lot of our presentations do. And it's delivered in PDF. That's just a
hit of a button. But for someone to go through the effort to scan-- so I think that might be what
it's addressing. If it starts as a PDF, delivered as a PDF, its fine. If it starts as a hard copy
delivered as a PDF, same amount of effort it is just to print a copy, a hard copy.
So let's be clear what we're asking because I'm not clear exactly what this is. That's just my
guess. So if anybody has any thoughts on that, I'd be interested in hearing what they-KEN MIHALIK: That's a good distinction. I don't know how often they're going into archive and
pulling up old physical records. And I think, Rolf, if you would deliver a presentation on this in
the future, we'll have a better idea of that. Yes, General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you. This is Rolf Asphaug again. If we're talking about just clarifying
the language that's existing in the resource-- excuse me-- Governance Document that we're
talking about today, what I intended to convey was that if the sense of the Board in $0.25 for
electronic and paper copies is wrong, and we should do away with the charge for electronic.
We can do this. And that's the staff procedure. We can immediately change it or in very short
order. If you go into things such as all right, now we want to start talking about changing how
much per hour we charge, that's something where there is existing language in this governance
document.
And if you've already changed that, we should need a separate action brought to the Board that
for some sort of sense again for staff. In a setting where we have some opportunity to present
what we heard from this and how much time we spend, all of that.
So I think there is some discussion going on right now about the Governance Manual, which
gave how much we charge per hour for research for the Open Records Act. And that's really not
an issue that should be addressed at this point.
But I will tell you, yes, we will come back. And we'll have our team come out at an opportune
moment for them to tell you everything we're doing to try to make things more transparent.
KEN MIHALIK: We'll have a committee on-AUDIENCE: CORA?
AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS]
KEN MIHALIK: Copiers.
AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS]

KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, real fast. And then I think we need to take a quick-- and see
what the majority is on this.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just wanted to express my felt opinion that RTD should be
promoting citizens' requests and that therefore I would urge that there be a lower or zero cost for
an electronic copy just for the purpose of promoting greater transparency.
And like the General Counsel said, I think that it would be very important to have a full
discussion about the $30 cost for staff time. But that's another issue. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And again, we can always come back and address these
governance documents. But for now, let's do a real quick, nonvoting, to give Rolf and his team
direction on whether-ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, I think I'm already sensing the direction on this. I think I can see
which way the wind is blowing on this.
KEN MIHALIK: Then you've got-ROLF ASPHAUG: Excellently fine.
KEN MIHALIK: Perfect. You've got the direction. And we will move back to the main motion.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so what I read there, we've got the OK that staff's going to
amend our fee schedule, right? And then let me make sure we're all clear. Rolf had written me an
email. And we spoke before the Board meeting. And I will agree to accept the offer to sit down
and have more of a detailed discussion about CORA, like, for example, I would like to see the
CORA log for the last two years.
And we can go into more detail about that and then see what we can work out on-- maybe
making both of us happy. And then would that be -- as I am going to pull this other motion that's
in this three-page package for right now. But it will be coming back. I can guarantee that. But
Rolf and I are going to talk first. OK.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I don't think we have an official motion for that. But-NATALIE MENTEN: There wasn't, but we were kind of dipping into it. So I'm just trying to
clear up-KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: --those ripples in the water.

KEN MIHALIK: Understood.
NATALIE MENTEN: So since I didn't make a motion. I'm now all cleared.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. We're back to the main motion. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm still not clear. I think a distinction between scanned copies that started out
as hard copies and end up as electronic copies or electronic document is different than a copy
that originates, like a PowerPoint presentation, that originates in the electronic format.
I think there should be a distinction between there. So a hard copy to scanned copy, I think you
should still charge for that because the effort to make a copy is still the same, whereas a
PowerPoint, the effort is put in at the beginning when the creation of a document when it's
created.
So I'd like to see that distinction. If somebody has to stand at a copy machine and create PDFs.
KEN MIHALIK: And I think General Counsel can do that with his two years or whatever time
period of records-- he can have them differentiated by the amount of effort they took and we can
revisit all this again.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, if I may, right now the Governance Manual-- and I know where it got
that. But that's what the Governance Manual says. And the Governance Manual really shouldn't
be driving procedures. But that's what we're talking about here.
If it says we're not paying -- not changing anything for electronic copies. We don't want you as
Board members relying on the Governance Manual going out to your constituents saying that.
And then they're telling them, guess what? We are. We'll make it that for now, we're not
charging anything. We can analyze that.
I do think that that was the rationale for why we did that in the first place was that there were so
many things in the past, especially when everything was paper, us scanning and then sending
them out electronically. Now everything's electronic to begin with, or a lot more things anyway.
JEFF WALKER: Signature pages, for instance, won't start as electronic, in some instances, yeah.
But those would have to be scanned to convert them into a wet signature at least. Those would
have to be scanned-ROLF ASPHAUG: We'll make that change now. And if we have to come back to you and say,
guess what? We're losing a lot of money that we used to collect because of this. We'll let you
know.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I also recall we've implement a lot of systems to address the
better data organization. So hopefully that is not an issue going forward-- or less of an issue
going forward. With Laserfiche and those types of systems. But -- Director Lubow, I'll let you
have the last word on this before we vote on the main motion.

JUDY LUBOW: Well, I have two small amendments I wanted to raise. I don't want anybody to
have a heart attack. But I think they are areas that we need to discuss. So, I'm not sure how to
raise them. Perhaps just now just now. Raising them. Thank you for your patience, everyone.
Page 154, our Board Member Development section, at the very last paragraph talks about our
annual Board Retreats. And it doesn't really mention that it's the Board that does the voting. And
I think that's important. I'd like to read the sentence.
"An annual Board Retreat held during the first quarter of the year is a powerful development tool
for the Board to use with the senior management and Senior Leadership Team to set vision and
develop strategies and goals that are integrated into the annual operations budget planning
cycle." And it doesn't address or state the change that has really gone into effect that it's the
Board that does the voting on this.
In the past, it used to be the Board and the Senior Leadership Team. And now it's the Board. So
what I would like to suggest is to add in there, after the phrase "with the Senior Leadership
Team" to add the phrase "for the Board to set vision." And hopefully that is clear enough that it's
meaning that the Board is the one doing the voting.
KEN MIHALIK: That's the first of two motions, we will handle that. Is there a second to that?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. On Page 150-KEN MIHALIK: No, not your second motion-- a second to your motion to amend.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry. Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: From anyone.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Is anyone unclear about the motion to amend on
page 154 the last sentence? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I would agree with the amendment.
And I would call the question.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Vote on Director Lubow's motion to amend.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, just to be clear, it sounds as if there is consensus to just call the
question. So you're not voting on calling the question. You're voting on adding the words "for the
Board" in front of the words "to set vision."
KEN MIHALIK: Okay, thank you for that yes. No opposition? Directors Williams and RiveraMalpiede we are--

KATE WILLIAMS: We're eating.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Lubow made the movement and I seconded it.
KEN MIHALIK: Correct.
OK. That passes unanimously. Anybody have a second one?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, on page 150. The difference between governance and management
support. Oh, here we go. OK. Oh, yes, basically what I'm interested in, in this, has to do with
adding the oversight position as something that the Board can do with management.
It's something that basically we support as a Board of proper position. And let me add it in-- OK,
the sentence that says-- OK, it's in the middle of Difference between Governance and
Management Board. The sentence in the middle that says, "However, areas where the Board may
cross into management includes financial approval of contracts, fare structure, CEO/General
Manager Oversight and Management."
And I would like, at the end of that, to add a comma and say, "And oversight of RTD's
effectiveness." I'd like that phrase to be added because I think that our responsibility, moral and
legal, to oversee the effectiveness of this organization is important. I'd like it stated there.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, so that sentence would finish with "and RTD's effectiveness.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, and oversight-- and oversight of RTD's effectiveness.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you read it again?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, however, areas where the Board may cross into management include
financial approval of contracts, fare structure, CEO/General Manager Oversight and
Management-- and this is what I'm adding-- and oversight of RTD's effectiveness.
KEN MIHALIK: Okay, is there a second to that?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a-- second. I'll second it. And I have a clarification question.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. My question to Director Lubow is please
define effectiveness.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, you may respond.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. It's basically acting appropriately and spending our money appropriately.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I think that is way too subjective, I'm afraid, for me to support this
amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: Well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I get it -- I appreciate your intent. But because you don't have anything
that you can measure. And if you're measuring your ideas versus mine or anybody else's in this
room.
AUDIENCE: Hear, hear.
JUDY LUBOW: I think that's a valid concern. But I think it's also throwing out the baby with the
bathwater. But I think that it's important for us to acknowledge that we have an oversight
capacity and responsibility. And perhaps there's a better way to phrase it. But I do think it's
important.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, maybe find a different word that says what you just said. But I think
effectiveness is vague and too subjective. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I wanted to suggest alternative wording. I think that actually that
oversight is not a function of management, at least in the sense that I think you're discussing. So
I think it's one of our key roles. And what I would suggest instead is "generally the creation of
policy in establishing strategic direction and exerting oversight are Board functions, whereas the
implementation of policy is a staff responsibility".
And then leave the next sentence alone. So that would be -JUDY LUBOW: Sounds good.
SHELLEY COOK: --an alternative that I would support.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Hear, hear. I support what she says.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Director Lubow, your motion is still -SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, but I don't know if we had a second on your motion.
KEN MIHALIK: We did, Director Folska--

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We have to amend that first one. And then get rid of it. And let it fail. And
then go to-SHELLY COOK: Robert's Rules. Correct me if I'm wrong.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ROLF ASPHAUG: If there is unanimous consent, you can withdraw the first motion.
AUDIENCE: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Yes.
AUDIENCE: Yes,
ROLF ASPHAUG: Sounds unanimous to me.
JUDY LUBOW: Great. Thank you.
AUDIENCE: That was easy.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Well let's get back to order. I'm trying to track this all. So we're-JUDY LUBOW: I've made a motion-KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow's motion has been heard and withdrawn.
JUDY LUBOW: Withdrawn.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Cook, you spoke for-SHELLEY COOK: OK, I'll make a motion to-- this is on page 511, packet page 150. In the
middle of the page, the sentence that starts with, "Generally, the creation of policy." So move to
amend that to read, "Generally, the creation of policy and establishing strategic direction in
exerting oversight are Board functions, whereas the implementation of policy is a staff
responsibility period."
And then the second-- or the subsequent sentence would be as is.
DOUG TISDALE: Please read-ROLF ASPHAUG: Could you please read that again.

SHELLEY COOK: So the sentence that starts with "generally"-- "Generally, the creation of
policy and establishing strategic direction and exerting oversight are Board functions." So you'd
add "s" after that.
DOUG TISDALE: So-- You're just adding three words.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And changing the word "is" to "are."
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. "Are Board functions." And then making plural the word "function"
"Whereas the implementation policy is a staff responsibility." Thank you.
JUSY LUBOW: I second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker, is your question regarded to Director Cook's motion?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, so I do like that it identifies the Board function. One of those is oversight.
And then in the next sentence, it identifies who is overseeing or what is overseen and that is the
GM/ CEO. So I think that's a good one because it narrows it down in the second sentence.
KEN MIHALIK: Seeing no other discussion, we will vote on Director Cook's motion to amend.
She was the mover. Director Lubow is the second. This passes 13 to zero. And we're back to theDOUG TISDALE Call the question.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there any opposition to that. OK. We are now voting on the main motion.
And that was Chair Tisdale and Director Whitmore, believe it or not.
[LAUGHTER]
AUDIENCE: It was, yeah.
AUDIENCE: He did it.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: And this passes 12 to 1, the one no vote being Director Folska. And we made it
through the updates. Oh, sorry. The recommended actions-- we are now-[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

We're on to the updates. First one is an audit update. And I'll welcome-- she is here. Ann-Marie
Isaac-Heslop, always good to hear from you.
ANN-MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Members of the Board, Chairman, this is Ann-Marie IsaacHeslop, Manager of Internal and IT Audits. I have a few items on my little list, which will not be
up there because it was just part of the packet.
So first I want to talk about the 2019 Annual Audit Plan. Before I do that, I kind of want to say
that I report to the General Manager administratively. And I will introduce myself to all of you
again. I report to you guys functionally.

