2024-06-25
Special Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon, everyone. This is Erik Davidson speaking, Chair of the RTD Board. I
will now call the Tuesday, June 25 Special Board Meeting to order. We are convened as of 3:00 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone who has joined us to remain muted unless you
are recognized to speak. Thank you for joining us this afternoon.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like access to this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish.
I will now call the roll. Treasurer Bouquet. Treasurer Bouquet is absent. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin. First Vice Chair Catlin is absent. We send our regards. Director
Dishell. Also an excused absence. Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal. Also absent. Director Ruscha. Absent. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am present. That is 10 directors present, five absent. We
have a quorum. Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address
the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees possible, in-person comments do go first,
followed by those that participate remotely.
For those attending in person, you may come up to the podium if your name is called. And if you have not
already signed up to speak and would do-- would wish to do so, you can approach the podium when I call
for any additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, you
may raise your virtual hand on Zoom or press Star 9 on your phone if dialed in. Staff will unmute you
when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in, you can press Star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by
participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your
comments will have to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference material for the Board, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office using the email
address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or
responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you may email the
Board Office at the same email address that was noted.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. Given that this is a special board meeting,
speakers will have up to one minute to provide their comments. It is my understanding nobody has signed
up in person on our sign up sheet to speak. Are there any other speakers present who didn't sign up but
would like to do so?
Seeing none, I'll turn to our Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll and ask, has anyone raised their
virtual hand online?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, we have no one present online who has raised their hand to indicate their
desire to provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And Mr. Kroll, would you mind noting, for the sake of the record,
if any email comments were received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, we received a number of email comments that I will cover for the regular
board meeting. There were no specific email comments for today's special board meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue and the
comments being noted, we will close the public participation period at this time. There is one
recommended action on the agenda this evening. This is for the Erie annexation election. This is for the
Board of Directors to approve a request submitted by resolution from the Weld County Board of
Commissioners to hold an election for the purpose of including in RTD all areas of the town of Erie that
currently lie outside the district boundaries. Is there a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. So moved. Buzek, second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Whitmore, and Buzek is the second. Before calling on Chris Quinn, who has
joined us here, our project manager, Planning Division, I'd like to note two things about this item. First of
all, some of you may be familiar with this item, that it was intended to come initially before the Finance
and Planning Committee.
There was a bit of a hiccup as we worked with our partner at Erie on the legal language concerning this.
And therefore, there was a delay introduced. But given the critical nature of this, we did go ahead and
include this in today's special board meeting. So we are moving around what would have been a typical
process to go through the Finance and Planning Committee. So I thank the chair of that committee,
Director Tisdale, for allowing us to take this up in a special board meeting.
I'd also like to note, I've had the opportunity to engage with several of the elected leaders, as well as
members of staff in Erie, being that I'm from District I, and therefore just wanted to comment on a few of
the reasons that they have, recognizing that we're always, I think, aware, RTD happens to be experts in
the overpromise, under-deliver area. We always want to be very careful about how we proceed with
additional areas joining the district.
One thing I can share with you is that in Erie, it's a little frustrating that it's somewhat of a patchwork in
terms of what's in the RTD and what is not in the RTD. And it creates a lot of headache on our side, as
well as for the town of Erie in their planning of transportation projects. There's also, as you might imagine,
quite a bit of confusion within the population of Erie as well as to whether or not they are within Erie.
This is in many ways going to help resolve that. Some things I'd like to note is Erie was not qualified for
our Call for Partnerships program that we began last year, and that is something that they would like to be
qualified for. And this is because they were looking at effectively a circulator project that, by the nature of
the patchwork design, would go in and out of the RTD. And therefore, we could not allocate funding to
that. They'd like to resolve that to be qualified on a go-forward basis.
Also, for those of you that may be familiar, the JUMP is a very important line going into Erie and providing
connectivity, and they'd like to extend that. We'll leave that to staff to answer any questions about that.
There's also, as Erie continues to grow, question around where Park and Rides can be because there
again, it needs to be exactly in our district, which has created some logistical challenges. Erie also sees
strategic reasons to be working more closely with RTD on some of its broader projects.
And finally, Erie is a very rapidly growing and changing area, and they do see future potential for transit,
would like to align their land use and transit ambitions with RTD. And this is an important step in that
direction. It's probably no surprise, I'm very supportive of this. At this time, I'd like to hand it over to Chris
Quinn, our project manager of the Planning Division, who has joined us here to make some further
comments on this. And he's also available for question and answer. Mr Quinn, thank you for joining us.
The floor is yours.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Chris Quinn with RTD Planning. You succinctly conveyed, I
think, everything that I was going to say. So I have nothing of substance to add. But happy to answer any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well, Mr. Quinn, I'm sorry to steal your thunder.
CHRIS QUINN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Did not mean to do so.

CHRIS QUINN: Made my job easier.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Also, I'll note, for the sake of the record, before we open up for questions, I think I see
we have Treasurer Bouquet has joined us and Director Rosenthal as well. So thank you, Mr. Quinn, for
being here, available. Do we have any questions for Mr. Quinn? Yes, Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick one. I think I've heard from people in Erie that they would like to get
service to their high school. Is their high school outside of the district now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Quinn?
CHRIS QUINN: I believe the high school is just outside the boundary. I will verify that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is my understanding as well. Further questions? Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a point of clarification. That does not mean we will be running a bus directly to
the high school. It just may be a route passing by the high school?
CHRIS QUINN: Correct. The JUMP route that currently goes into Erie stops just short of that area. One of
the things that we've already begun discussions with them on is, it would actually-- and this would be
beneficial to RTD. If we can work with the high school, we could have a better layover area for the JUMP.
So we've been working in advance with the hope that that area would come in so that we would have a
better layover for the JUMP for future service. So short answer, yes, it would be extending the line a little
bit.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure we're still in compliance with some of
our federal requirements. So it's my understanding that this is a little bit of a checkerboard. And there's
kind of an island in Erie, is that correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. So this will be bringing the full fold in with no disconnect from the district.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And thank you, Mr. Quinn, for the answer. Thank you, Secretary, for the question.
Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Is all the property contiguous, or does some of it stand alone?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Quinn?

CHRIS QUINN: It's contiguous, yes. And the reason I say that with some hesi-- Erie's current boundary is
a little bit irregular. So when you see it on the map, it's not going to necessarily look contiguous, but with
some of the weird flagpole annexations that the town has done in the past, it does meet the contiguity
requirement as required by statute.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. And thank you, Mr. Quinn. OK. Not seeing any further questions
or discussion, I'll go ahead and call for the vote. I'll ask, are there any No votes on this action? OK.
Seeing none, that will pass with 12 Yes votes. And we have three absent. Thank you very much, Mr.
Quinn. Thank you for joining us.
All right. We're going to move on to our executive session section. In a moment, the board will meet in
executive session to discuss the Office of the State Auditor's revised findings in the 2023 to 2024
performance audit. I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the
special board meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public
transparency, this means that once the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting will be
adjourned.
For anyone who might be in the room or remote, the regularly scheduled May Board meeting will occur
after this meeting with the anticipated start time of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Please note that we
will be back. I will now entertain a motion to enter executive session to discuss the following.
Pursuant to Section 24-6-402 parens 4c CRS, for matters required to be kept confidential by federal or
state law or rules and regulations, and sections 2-3-103 parens 2 and parens 3, and 2-3-103.7 parens 1
CRS, regarding the Office of the State Auditor's revised findings in the 2023 to 2024 performance audit,
RTD Board and management initial responses, anticipated time frame for final responses, and report and
discussion regarding the same.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Tisdale is the movant. Second is Bouquet.
BOB BROOM: Mr. Chair, we do have a hand raised. Maybe it's just to notice attendance by Director
Ruscha.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah, yes. Director Ruscha. I'll note for the sake of the record that Director Ruscha has
joined. And director Ruscha, please, you are now recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm sorry I didn't join in time for the Erie vote. I came on right
as you all were voting. I just wanted, for the interest of transparency, just advise my colleagues I won't be
in the executive session. Despite attempts, I wasn't able to get appropriate accommodations through the
Board Office. And so I don't think I'll be able to meaningfully participate.
However, I will see you guys at the regular board meeting. And so sorry, this is somewhat out of order.
But Mr. Chair, if you could advise when you expect this session to conclude, that would be helpful. If not, I
will be at Blake Street at about 5 o'clock.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. So moving forward, for all those who are expected to
attend, would you please stay seated. And for everyone else, would you please vacate the room at this
time and take all of your belongings with you. While we-- yeah, Mr-SPEAKER: The vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, I'm sorry. We are a little out of order. Yes, thank you. We do have the motion and
second. I do need to call for the vote. Are there any No votes to move into executive session?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Excuse me, Mr. Chair. I apologize. Do you have a sense of when this executive
session will close? Just ballpark.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We will resume our-- we'll reconvene for our May Board meeting at 5:30 PM Mountain
Daylight Time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. That did not answer my question, but that's all right. I will let you
guys get to it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Are there any No votes on this action? All right. Seeing none, that
will be unanimous. 13 yes, 2 absent. OK. Now, for those of you that are not entitled to be here, please
vacate the room at this time with all your belongings while we transition as quickly as possible. Please
allow staff at least five minutes to switch everything over from public to the executive session. We'll now
do that at this time.

