2022-03-22
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: I will now call the Tuesday, February 22 RTD Board meeting to order. We're convened as
a 5.31 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized to speak. Thank
you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live
stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance
and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors' page on the RTD website.
Thank you. We'll now do the Pledge of Allegiance. Director Williams, would you please lead us in the
Pledge?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I Pledge Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to
the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Cook, would you please read the land
acknowledgement?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our
buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary
tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in the
district as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Cook. And I'd like to just take a moment. Today is the one-year
anniversary of the shooting tragedy at the Boulder King Soopers. Let's take a moment of silence to
remember those-- all those impacted by that.

Thank you. I'll now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is here. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: I see you. [LAUGHS] Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede. Oh, that's right. She won't be here. Thank you. I recall that now.
Director Rosenthal, I see you're here, right?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Sloan, welcome back.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, and here.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Dr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With 14 present and one excused absence, we have a quorum. Next, and for the
first time since I'm the Chair, we're going to do the Retiree Awards. One of the many truly rewarding duties
of serving on this Board is the recognition of RTD retirees. As we reach the end of the first quarter, the time
has come for us to recognize the employees who have moved on to enjoy their retirement.
Being able to acknowledge the incredible individuals who worked here for a significant portion of their
professional careers is both an honor and a privilege. It's becoming increasingly rare for agencies and
companies to be fortunate enough to have such long-tenured employees, and RTD is privileged to have
such amazing and dedicated people as part of our family.
At this time, I'd like to read the names of employees who have been retired since the beginning of the year.
Due to COVID, we've been unable to give these amazing individuals a sendoff they truly deserve in our
Blake Street boardroom. But tonight, we would like to recognize and acknowledge their time and dedication
to the agency.
And I'll read their names-- Amanda Abraham, Bus Operator, 21 years; Barbara Beasley-Galusha Sign-out
Clerk, 24 years; Thomas J Beer, Facility-Maintenance Mechanic, 26 years; Monica Caldwell-Reed, HR
Recruiter, 27 years; Joseph Carrillo, Bus Operator, 21 years; Margaret Martinez, Bus Operator, 24 years;
Michael D. 24 years; Leslie Moore, Service and Cleaning Supervisor, 38 years; Andrew G Mutz Project
Manager and Engineer, 26 years; Joe Rivera, Custodian, 27 years; Matthew Simpkins, Quality-Control
Inspector, 33 years; Christopher Stansberry LRT Field Supervisor, 18 years; Berihun Teklehaimanot Bus
Operator, 21 years; Peter Tigyi Bus Operator, 29 years; and Joyce Trujillo, Bus Operator, 24 years. I
understand that Mr. Beer is with us tonight. Mr. Beer. Would you like to say anything on your retirement?
I don't know if you're with us, but if you are, you're muted if you're speaking Mr. Beer. Henry, do you know
if Mr. Beer's here?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: He was scheduled to be here, and I believe that Jilliam was going to try to get
him on the phone.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: He is on the phone. Give me a minute to see if I can get him unmuted.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Jillian.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: But while we're doing that, I'd like to say a few words about Tom.
VINCE BUZEK: Great.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: He retired from RTD last November. And he started his career in service and
cleaning. He did that for about seven years and then transferred over to the facility's maintenance side. And
he went ahead and got his certifications and became a certified mechanic.
He was also a Group 2 Operator. So the Group 2 supervisors step in when the regular supervisors are out.
So he was able to step in to the role of Supervisor on numerous occasions, which we really appreciated.
So he did that within the public facilities.
And then he finished his career after 26 years at district shops. And he's moved on to retirement with his
wife and enjoying horticulture as a hobby. He has been missed. And I hope that he's enjoying his retirement.
It was well-earned. And Tom, from me to you, thank you very much for all that you've done for RTD, and I
wish you the best in retirement. And it looks like he is on now.
THOMAS BEER: I am on. Thank you very much for all the adulations. I'll take them all.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: You earned it.
THOMAS BEER: I'd like to personally and publicly thank the current Board of Directors and those in the
past that I've known for recognizing my 26 years of service with RTD. It's been a great opportunity for me,
and it's paid dividends. And I also have to thank my wife for putting up with me for 26 years in RDT.
But I also would like to thank Henry and his accomplished staff, office staff, and management, and
specifically, in my facility maintenance, where I ended up, Ron Posey and Mike Young. They were
extremely helpful and dutiful, especially through this COVID bit. And they were really stand-up folks, and I
really appreciate everything they've done for me.
And I'd also like to thank-- there's a ton of people that I can't even think of, but I'd like to thank even the
local ATU, 1001, the staff, the past staff, and all the stuff they've done for me for, I guess you would say,
help and consideration, and special thanks for all the employees that I interacted with on a regular and daily
basis.
And from this side of the coin, 26 years went like a snap. But when you're going through it, of course, you
don't think of it that way. But it's been-- provided me with a great sense of accomplishment, and it's helped
my family.
And like I say, it's been quite a reward to work there. And I hope RTD stays healthy and keeps going. And
I appreciate you letting me go on, but I think you've got other things to accomplish. Thank you very much
for your time and consideration.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much, Mr. Beer. And you have certainly earned our time. And on behalf of the
Board of Directors, I want to thank you and all the other retirees for your hard work and dedication to RTD.
We wish you all well in your future endeavors. And at this point, without any further, we'll move on to our
next item on the agenda.
THOMAS BEER: Thank you very much.

VINCE BUZEK: You bet, Mr. Beer.
THOMAS BEER: Have good evening.
VINCE BUZEK: You too.
THOMAS BEER: Bye-bye
VINCE BUZEK: Take care. This is our public-participation period, which is open to anyone who would like
to address the Board. Those who would like to address the Board but are unable to attend Board meetings
can submit their comments in writing to be read into the record at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Ms.
McManus, were any emailed comments received for tonight's meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: As of the afternoon conference with my team, no. Jillian, was anything added after
we spoke?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: No, there wasn't.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. We'll move on. As is our custom, we will allow any of our elected officials
present to speak first. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand, or
press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Speakers, please
refrain from profane or obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole, and refrain from
personal attacks. Do we have anybody in the queue at this time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have one speaker currently, and that is Molly McKinley.
VINCE BUZEK: Ah, Molly McKinley. Miss McKinley, please go ahead.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, RTD Board members, CEO and General Manager Johnson, and Staff.
Thanks for holding a space for public comment this evening. My name is Molly McKinley, and I'm a policy
Director at the Denver Streets Partnership.

I'm here this evening-- excuse me-- to congratulate you and express our appreciation for the newly
approved collective bargaining agreement between RTD and the ATU Local 1001. We are thrilled to see
the increased wages and scheduling updates, quality-of-life improvements, and opportunities for
advancement. Transit workers are critical to our community, and they deserve to be supported.
This agreement sends the right message to both current and potential employees and really puts RTD on
a track to being able to provide more reliable service in the Denver area. I want to share a couple of things
that I've been reflecting on since reviewing the Board packet earlier this afternoon. Two things that really
stood out to me in the section with feedback from the engagement around the May service changes, first,
is this broad statement that there is-- the widespread view is that RTD must return to full service. I'm sure
it's no surprise that I couldn't agree more.
The other was just a reminder from reading the individual feedback at the very end of the packet that the
service you provide really impacts people's daily lives, and people truly depend on RTD's service. I know
that's not news to you all, but I was just reflecting on those two sentiments kind of packaged together. For
me, it really elevates a sense of urgency to improve and restore service.
I talk all the time with decision makers and community members about the importance of transit and how
critical it is for stakeholders throughout our region to be coming together to support RTD now more than
ever. of time, I thank you and Reflections together. You know, as well as I do, that transit is a critical part
of meeting our region's needs and goals from climate and air quality to equity and access.
I'm really hopeful that this collective bargaining agreement will be a catalyst for restoring service to meet
the needs of the region. I'm looking forward to joining a future Board meeting where there are service
changes proposed that include some service increases because RTD is fully staffed and then some. I'll
bring the confetti.
I'm really rooting for you all, and everyone in the region should be too. Our future depends on good transit.
So thank you again.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Miss McKinley. And Thank you and your organization for your partnership and
advocacy. Ms. McManus, are there any more members?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no other hands up to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public-participation period
at this time and move on to the External Entities' reports. The Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory
Committee, APAC, report will be presented by Mr. Tex Elam. Mr. Elam, the floor is yours.
TEX ELAM: I am now on.
VINCE BUZEK: You are.

TEX ELAM: Thank you, Chairman Buzek. I will be reporting on five items. This RTD staff presented plans
for conducting a systemwide fare study and equity analysis at our last meeting-- they did it in detail. And
we'll select several folks representing the disabled community to serve on the panel.
Secondly, the Uber pilot program for Access-a-Ride members is now operational, as announced by General
Manager Johnson. Sorry about that, Miss Johnson. Recently, membership are now being advised on the
procedures to make the program work, to let them be able to-- to let us be able to participate.
The next two items are examples of RTD's efforts to reinstate reinstate programs that had to be canceled
during the COVID problem. One of them is subscription service, which allows customers who travel to the
same location at least three days a week to do so without having to call in every day to make the same
reservation. This is being done first through kidney dialysis and senior centers. Once that's accomplished,
then the system will be moved on to other people who qualify for the service.
Next, trip negotiators-- trip negotiations-- excuse me-- is reestablished. Thereby, once again, as scheduled,
when a person calls in, that is honored, plus or minus an hour, of the time that the person-- of the requested
time the person wants to service.
The renewal date for Access-a-Ride service vendor contracts is October 1 of this year. RTD staff has
finalized their scope and work for non-- for new service contracts and made it clear that an APAC member
will be selected by the group to serve on the Committee as a non-voting participant. And Mr. Chairman,
that's the end of my report.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Elam, thank you for the report. Do any members of the Board have any questions for
Mr. Elam? Seeing none, thank you so much, and thanks for your work on the APAC. Next, we'll move-TEX ELAM: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: --to the Advisory Committee for people with disabilities, the ACPD. That report will be
presented by Mr. Jamie Lewis. Mr. Lewis, please start when you are ready.
JAMIE LEWIS: Good evening, Board members. . We held a meeting on March 8. It was a pretty short but
compact meeting but good stuff happening.
TEX ELAM: Yeah.
JAMIE LEWIS: Can you hear me? OK. ADA Specialist-- introduction to Tamika McMillan joined the Civil
Rights Team in early February, and she introduced herself to the Committee. Second issue is the
Englewood elevator update. Sean Moran, Manager of the Public Contracted Facilities, informed the
Committee that the city of Englewood has approved a Water Department variance that will allow them to
complete the elevator repair at the Englewood Station. Repairs are slated to be completed by May.
New business-- RTD Wayfinding Improvement exploration-- Gabe Christie, our ADA Manager, provided an
update on the Wayfinding Improvement efforts. This project began with the goal of determining the
accessibility limitations of stops and stations and has already inspired potential improvements, which would

include braille signage, signage-location standardization, and bus-gate indicators. Mr. Christie stated that
the ADA office is seeking information from peer agencies about their current Wayfinding techniques and
strategies.
While peer-to-peer feedback is valuable, customer feedback is more so in this project. To create-- to
generate customer feedback, both focus-group questions and series of survey questions have been
developed. The survey is currently undergoing digitalization, and the distribution list is being compiled. And
a phone-based option is under development. The completed survey will be provided to the ACPD members.
And lastly like APAC, we were given the System fare study and equity analysis, and some of our members
will be working on the project. So that's all we have.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for your report. Do any Board members have any questions for Mr. Lewis?
Seeing none, we'll move on. Thanks again, Mr. Lewis, for your report. We'll move on to the Citizens Advisory
Committee report, which will be presented by Mr. Matt Appelbaum. Mr. Appelbaum, please introduce your
report.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you very much. My colleague and co-chair, Joanna Morsicato was with you in
January, so I'll give you a quick update on our February and March meetings. In February, we got a really
good update on the Title VI program. And we focused on something you're focusing on, we had a really
good discussion on the network-level analysis, in other words, considering equity issues on a network level
instead of on a route-by-route basis, which we think is absolutely the appropriate way to do it.
In fact, we further discussed the need to consider accessibility and mobility-- where people are going, how
long does it take to get there, how many transfers, et cetera, for when you are looking at Title VI and equity
issues and not just examining it, kind of-- I can tell you it this way, the old-fashioned way, on a route-byroute basis. Yes, you need to do that to meet the federal requirements. But network-level analysis clearly
is the way to go, as you are reimagining RTD service. And we'd love to stay involved in this, of course.
The second item in February was a presentation to us on the Denver bus priority network. We realized
that's kind of limited to the Denver area. And I think our takeaway was we're really interested to see how a
study like this and its outcomes can be applied to other parts of RTD's network, which also, of course,
should be looking at our priority networks, bus rapid transit, what have you. So that was good for us to hear
that.
And then in March, we looked at three topics. We had an update-- or, really, an introduction to TOD, TransitOriented Development. A number of the newer members of our Committee had not had a presentation on
that. And it's safe to say there was strong support on the CAC for continued effort by RTD and a real
appreciation of the good work you've done so far in getting quite a number of housing units and, particularly,
affordable units built alongside transit stations.
It's clear we need more collaboration and cooperation with local governments, especially regarding zoning
and parking requirements. I'm sure you know that, and we'd be happy to help if we could. And members of
the CAC suggested a number of additional locations that might be used for TOD. And we discovered, as

you already know, that many-- most of them had a number of logistical issues, particularly zoning, which is
under the control of local jurisdiction. So it's a great cause-- more work to be done.
The second item and the one we spent probably the most time on was an update on the fare study,
something we've been involved in-- we want going to remain involved in as this really critical study
continues. The CAC was very supportive of the, essentially, new approach that doesn't require a
predetermined percentage of farebox revenue but, in fact, is really looking at how to set fares in a more
equitable and appropriate manner.
But having said that, we were also concerned that, while we're sure that many interest groups are going to
want lower fares-- and indeed, RTD's fares are rather high-- lowering fares could cause reductions in
service levels, and that, in turn, could undermine the benefits of the lower fares. So we saw it as a not-soobvious trade-off that needs to be looked at very carefully. As you're aware, many surveys-- I think pretty
much all the surveys of transit riders in the United States-- strongly suggest that people think that better
service is more important than lower fares and attracting and keeping riders-- so again, a lot of work to be
done here.
We're very supportive of the outreach approach. We'd like to potentially get one of our members on one of
the feedback panels, and we'll try to monitor the various meetings of those panels. So good work.
And finally, we had a discussion of the Sparing the Air program. And I'll just say we continue to have a
concern-- we've mentioned it before-- about using the considerable amount of money to provide free fares
for everybody for a relatively short period of time, which seems unlikely to succeed in changing people's
longer-term transit usage, which has got to be the goal.
We wondered if it was possible to target the free fares to a specific audience, namely people who really
could use the free fares-- lower-income people and so on-- instead of giving them to everyone. And, again,
we're concerned, what it's worth, that better service, more reliable service seems to attract more long-term
transit riders than a short-term fare concession, like we will, even understanding the goals of air quality. So
that's the report-- happy to answer any questions you might have.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Appelbaum. Any directors with questions? Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. Thank you, Chair Buzek. And Mr. Appelbaum, great report. Thank you. I note that
the CIC has new members, and that's great. I also note that APAC still has a notice on the RTD website
that they are looking for additional members. I don't know if Tex or anyone can tell us if that is, in fact, still
true.
MATT APPELBAUM: If you're looking at me, I do not know. I know that you're going to appoint, I think,
another five new members of the CAC. And there is a notice out. I actually saw it in [INAUDIBLE]. I've seen
it, I think, in two newspapers that the CAC is looking for new members.
And we're out there also kind of talking it up, as it were. It is hard to get the word out, of course. I hope good
people will apply.

I'll just say-- and this is a compliment to the Board-- the last couple of sets of new members you've appointed
have been terrific-- active on the Board, very knowledgeable about transit, and they're representative of
their communities, which permeates the CAC a more interesting place. Our discussions have been really
good because people come in knowing quite a bit about transit, and mobility, and accessibility. And we
really appreciate that. But it'll be a big change in our Board, a lot of new members. And we are looking
forward to getting together with them in person one of these days because, like you, perhaps, there are
members on Board we really haven't met in person yet. And that does make it a little bit harder to get to
know each other.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Appelbaum. I actually was asking about APAC. And I see that Mr. Elam
is back on, and maybe Ms. McManus has an answer. So I was just wondering if APAC is still looking for
new members.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I saw Larry Buter's hand up as an attendee. I think he wanted to speak to that
point. Larry, do you want to join the meeting? [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
LARRY BUTER: Sure. Sure. Can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
LARRY BUTER: Wonderful. Good to be with you all tonight. We typically like to keep the application process
open all year long so that we have a robust selection to pick from once we do need applicants. I can tell
you that for the upcoming term, we'll be in need of, I believe it's five new members.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was-VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. Thanks for that update. Mr. Elam, do you have something to add?
TEX ELAM: No, he did it well.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, sounds good. OK, we're going to move on to the Audit Ad-Hoc Committee report.
Second Vice-Chair Catlin, please share with us your report.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So a couple of items-- one, we are in the process of procuring a
consultant to help us through this next phase. The Procurement-- Contracts and Procurement Division has
modified the schedule a little bit. They had an inqur-- the RFP was advertised on February 18. The emailed
questions from prospective proposers were to be received by the close of business on March 9, and then
on the 18th, RTD sent responses to written questions, if any.
As a result of those inquiries, the division agreed to extend the proposal deadline from March 30, as was
originally advertised, to April 8, to give some people more of a chance to respond. And the week of April
25, if necessary, there will be oral presentations by any finalists. And RTD anticipates making the final
selection on or around May 3 of this year in order to get a consultant on Board to help us with moving

forward with outsourcing the internal audit function. I think that the fact that there was a request to extend
the proposal deadline indicates that there is interest in helping RTD with this process.
The second item-- we do have a meeting scheduled this upcoming Monday at 8:00 o'clock in the morning.
And what we-- the Ad-Hoc Committee had agreed to do was take a deeper dive and look in the-- more in
depth at the audit standards. So this coming Monday, we will start looking at the standards, maybe looking
at our meeting cadences, implementation of the standards, and just the internal-audit function's alignment
with the strategic plan, want to maybe set up something about new Director training related to audit.
It's kind of been something that's out of sight, out of mind for most Directors coming in. And we thought it
would be important to maybe take a look at how we could introduce new Board members to-- or new
Directors to the internal audit function and also, existing Board members as we're starting to transition to a
different model than what we had had previously.
So we're going to start those internal discussions. And our fellow Director Davidson is going to start
facilitating that discussion this coming Monday. And you're all welcome to join. But I think we can all take
advantage of a more in-depth discussion on those matters. With that, Director Davidson, do you have
anything to add to that, or Director Dishell?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, thank you, other than just to say that, also, thank you to Director Dishell, as well,
who's been working, I know, on matrix that will help guide that discussion that we'll be starting on Monday.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for reminding me of that-- yes, I appreciate that-- to both of you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice-Chair Catlin. Thanks. And thanks, Director Davidson and Director
Dishell, for your hard work on this important committee. Next, we have the Finance and Planning Committee
report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything that you would like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I do. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee-- I'll touch on a couple
of items. We unanimously passed the recommended action that is on tonight's unanimous consent agenda.
This is the delegation of authority and competitive selection, which seeks to update the delegations of
purchasing and contracting budget transfer and settlement authority.
We had two discussion items at the committee. I want to touch on the first discussion item, which does
involve a policy decision that this Board will be making, likely in the June time frame. This was regarding
the refinancing of 2013 and 2014 Certificates Of Participation, or COPs. The substantial portion of these
certificates of participation were used to finance the construction of the N Line.
Our staff has recognized and found a very good opportunity to realize growth savings of $103 million or
$120 million by refinancing these COPs. The $103 million option calls to do a refinance. The $120 million
option-- so that's an additional $17 million growth, which amounts to a $10 million net-present-value
savings-- calls for utilizing the FasTracks bond authority.

The committee had a robust discussion around the trade-offs associated with utilizing the bond authority
from FasTracks to realize the savings. While this would exhaust the agency's bond-authority capacity until
2044, there is actually a risk that RTD will not be able to leverage its bond authority beyond 2024, given
that it is the 20-year anniversary of the 2004 FasTracks vote.
The committee heard from bond council, which shared that there is limited precedent demonstrating that
bond authority can extend beyond 20 years of its authorization and that there actually is some legal
precedent from other jurisdictions suggesting that the bond authority may become unavailable after 20
years. So this would mean that the agency may face a decision that, regardless of what we do now, we
may need to explore other financing mechanisms to complete the unfinished corridor as a fast track beyond
that 2024 date.
The committee does expect to hear more from staff regarding the relevant case law that we did discuss, as
well as the two potential plans to realize the savings of $103 and $120 million growth. This will be an
important policy decision, so I certainly encourage Board members to review that discussion. There are
trade-offs on both sides. It is complicated. It is a little bit murky because we are looking at uncertainty on
both sides.
I also would encourage any committee-- non-committee members who may be curious to learn a little bit
more, certainly please feel free to reach out to me or to other Finance and Planning Committee members,
such as Vice-Chair Catlin. And certainly feel free to reach out to Mr. MacLeod and his staff for further
information. And I'd be remiss if I didn't Thank Mr. MacLeod, Mr. Morgan, and Miss Johnson for working
together on what is a very creative and extensive savings for the agency, regardless of what decision we
make.
So I look forward to hearing more on that. I look forward to sharing more with you All and again, please feel
free to reach out to me with any questions.
Finally, we did have one other discussion item at the Committee. This was regarding the systemwide fare
study and equity analysis, which was presented to the committee by staff. We had a detailed look at the-where we are and what the schedule for completion is.
And thank you to all of the staff members who participated in that. It was very helpful. And certainly, I know
we were all excited to hear an update on that important project. Thank you, Mr Chair. That concludes my
report.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Davidson, for that report and the updates. Next is the Operations and
Safety Committee report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything you would like to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And the Operations and Safety Committee met, and we
adopted the May, 2022 service plan changes, as revised.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Thanks for that report. Next is the Performance Committee report. Committee
Chair Ru-- Lewis, I'm sorry. Do you have anything you'd like to report?

SHONTEL LEWIS: I actually do not have any updates [INAUDIBLE].
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I didn't-SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE].

VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I couldn't hear you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can you hear me now?
VINCE BUZEK: You're kind of cutting in and out.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. I just got my computer serviced, and I don't think it works.
[LAUGHTER]
VINCE BUZEK: Take it back.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. No updates.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard that one. Thank you, Director Lewis. We got that. Great. Next is the approval of our
Board meeting minutes and Committee reports. The Board and Committee meet-- minutes were included
in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
VINCE BUZEK: Okay, can-- I'm sorry. Did I hear some-- Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
VINCE BUZEK: And let me just go over what minutes we are approving-- the February 22, 2022 Board
meeting; the March 8, 2022 Special Board meeting; March 8, 2022 Finance and Planning Committee;
March 9, 2022 Operations and Safety Committee; March 17, 2022 Executive Committee; and March 18,
2022 special Board meeting. I heard Director Broom is the movement. Do I have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore a second. Is there any discussion on this motion? I'll not now call for the
vote. Are there any "no" votes on this action? Seeing none, that passes by a 14 in favor and 1 absent.
General Managers report is next, and I'll be brief. This week, GM/CEO Johnson, Michael Davies, Lynn
Guissinger on a couple of meetings held legislative meetings with Senator Bennet, Representatives
Neguse, DeGette, and Perlmutter-- had good discussions and continued support from our legislative team.

We also had our federal lobbyists from Squire Patton Boggs. [? Betty ?] [? Dorche ?] and Phil Bianchi were
present in all of these meetings. They went very well-- good discussion, good questions from the legislators.
And again, we continue to thank them for their support in helping secure federal funding and other things
they're doing for us.
We've got our Board retreat coming up this Saturday. So everybody should have gotten a notice of that.
I'm sure people have been contacted by our facilitators for your one-on-one interviews. I hope those are
going well. I look forward to seeing everyone there.
And at this point in time, I have asked Director Tisdale to give us a brief update. He attended the APTA
legislative conference in Washington, DC, and represented RTD there. So Director Tisdale, I'd like to turn
the floor over to you for a brief update.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As the Chair said, I attended the APTA Legislative
Conference in Washington, DC, on March 13 through 16, which was preceded by meetings of the APTA
Board of Directors and the APTA Executive Committee, which I attended also. I was privileged to Chair and
to moderate a number of sessions while in DC, including the Transit Board Members Committee meeting.
I would like to highlight just four items from those meetings-- first, there is a Board-talk live webinar that will
be conducted on Tuesday, April 5 at noon our time to discuss the APTA strategic plan regarding important
issues for the transportation industry. You are all invited to attend; second, the Transit Board Members
Educational Seminar will be held in Salt Lake City from July 30 through August 3, which will present
programs on workforce development, transit-oriented communities, system-optimization plans-- everybody
across the nation is doing these things now-- reduced and free-fare programs, equity issues and ethics. All
of these are, obviously, very relevant to us.
Third-- to ensure your continued engagement with the Transit Board Member committee, please go to the
APTA website. That's abda.com. And just type "committee interest form" in the search box, and you can
instantly sign up for the TBM committee for free and get all of these notices directly.
Finally, we were able to celebrate with a number of senators and other members of Congress the passage
and signing of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, actually sending the money from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to DOT and to transit agencies across the country, including the express direction, the
DOT, to refund the RTD Denver's $28.9 million credit risk premium posted in connection with the Denver
Union Station renovation, with interest, within 60 days. That is by May the 16th.
Please contact me for further details regarding this very productive conference. That concludes my report,
Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And that is something to celebrate. And we spoke to our
congressional reps about that and thanked them profusely for their hard work on getting that money back
finally. Thanks so much. That's all of my report. General Manager Johnson, please share with us your
report.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and good evening to all of you, board members and
to those who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO.
This evening, I will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.
Speaking to community value, I will discuss continued efforts related to Spare the Air and Fares program;
RTD's participation in the Federal Transit Administration's Sustainable Transit for a Healthy Planet
challenge; progress toward the establishment of subregional councils, as well as my participation, recent
speaking engagements, on behalf of the agency.
As relates to customer excellence, I will share information regarding continuing efforts to address
unwelcome activity occurring in Denver Union Station and the surrounding area. And related to the
Employee Ownership strategic priority, I will touch on the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses
and a temporary reduction in telephone Information Center operating hours.
So relating to efforts related to Spare the Air and the [? Fare's ?] program, RTD staff continues to collaborate
with community partners, legislators, and the ATU Local 1001 to determine best practices for the
implementation of a free-fare program. Over the course of several weeks, Government Relations Officer
Michael Davies, and I, along with you, Mr. Chair, and First Vice-Chair Guissinger, have engaged with a
myriad of audiences ranging from non-profit entities to state legislators and environmental advocates.
RTD's initial recommendation to implement free-fare transit days in a judicious incremental multi-year
manner was not overarching fully embraced by all audiences. And keeping with the agency's strategic
priority of community value and in collaboration with the region's stakeholders, state-elected officials and
ATU 1001, the revised approach would be to offer one calendar month fare-free with the commitment of
support for social-services assistance, as well as security.
Key to supporting this effort will be regional collaboration and agreement among local jurisdictional partners,
such as the Metro Mayors Caucus, to ensure a safe working environment is in place during a potential farefree month, potentially during the month of August. Earlier this afternoon, our State Lobbyist shared the bill
draft of proposed language. Staff is yet to fully review but will shortly and work with the Board, the Bill's
sponsors, and the General Assembly. The Board, most naturally, will be engaged in a dialogue regarding
next steps.
Next, I will touch upon, briefly, RTD's participation in the Federal Transit Administration's Sustainable
Transit for a Healthy Planet challenge. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, transportation
accounts for 29% of greenhouse-gas emissions in the United States. Related to President Biden's climate
challenge for a 50% to 52% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030, FDA issued a challenge of its socalled "Sustainable Transit for a Healthy Planet" last summer.
170 entities nationwide responded thus far, indicating their intent to participate, including several in
Colorado, such as the Denver Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, and, of course, RTD. Staff
is preparing documentation demonstrating the agency's commitment to sustainability through current and
past initiatives, including the Spare the Air and Fares Initiative, recent bus-software updates that enhance

fuel efficiency and reduced emissions, and the implementation of our low- and zero-emission vehicles within
our fleet.
The FDA is offering tools and assistance and responding to this challenge, and the American Public
Transportation Association also offers support for climate action planning. RTD's response to this challenge
is aligned with the strategic priority of community value, particularly with respect to the agency's
commitment to sustaining planet Earth. And it is responsive to a recommendation offered by the
Accountability Committee regarding air-quality improvement.
Next, regarding the subregional service council, speaking of Accountability Committee in response to said
recommendations, we are in the process of ensuring that we're being reflective of the response to the
Accountability Committee's recommendation in which we are meeting with stakeholders and RTD staff to
formulate set service councils. And a meeting took place on Thursday, February 24th.
The following meeting will take place this Thursday-- or I should say, subsequent meeting will take place
this Thursday. During these initial collaborative meetings, the participants are working to clarify the purpose
of the service councils to determine the appropriate membership and to establish operating parameters.
For this Thursday's meeting, staff will present information regarding the boundary models that will inform
decision making regarding the areas to be represented by each service council. As a reminder and to
manage expectations, these council will be Advisory bodies only and will not have decision-making authority
regarding service-planning efforts.
On the topic of external speaking engagements, recognizing that March is Women's History Month, on
Monday, March 7, I was invited by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority in Washington, DC,
by their advancing women of WMATA to serve as the keynote speaker addressing breaking the bias, a
journey of standing in your truth. During this engagement, I spoke with many women employed at WMATA
regarding historical gender roles, and leadership, and gender biases, inclusivity, and belonging, among
other topics. This was followed by a refreshing and candid conversation about challenges and opportunities
for women leaders in the public-transportation space, even though one can keep in mind that the vast
majority of transit users are women and, specifically, women of color that are single mothers.
Additionally, this past Thursday, on March 17, I participated in a panel hosted by the Federal Transit
Administration and facilitated by Administrator Nuria Fernandez, in which the question was posed, what
comes first-- transit or development? Other panelists included Robin Keegan, Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Economic Development from the Department of Housing and Urban Development; Robin-- excuse me- Robert Hanifin, from the US Department of Transportation's Build America Bureau; Courtney Jackson,
who is the Executive Director for Ride New Orleans; Fred Neal Jr., The Commissioner of New Orleans
Regional Transit Authority Board of Commissioners; and Jacob Vallo, who is the Senior Director of TOD
and Real Estate at the Metropolitan Atlanta Regional Transportation Authority.
The discussion focused on Transit-Oriented Development and equitable TOD, as it is more frequently
abbreviated, in the panel-discussed topics, such as benefits, challenges, and risks when planning for and
implementing TOD, effective strategies for building diverse partnerships, land use and zoning reform, and

RTD's own equitable TOD policy, low-equity fare programs, and equitable service-planning efforts, which
go beyond Title VI compliance. As you will recall, you all collectively, as the Board, approved the agency's
equitable TOD policy just over a year ago in February of 2021, and the policy is comprised of five primary
elements-- an affordability goal, an emphasis on parking replacement, as well as shared parking, expedited
administration, and negotiated land prices, all of which are tied to the policy goal of encouraging affordable
residential development for low-income households on RTD-real property at and along high-frequency
transit stations and corridors, with the objectives of increasing ridership through transit-supportive land use,
generating revenue through joint development, and enhancing community relationships.
Also, this past Thursday evening, Director Cook; Bill Van Meter, AGM of planning; Michael Davis,
Government Relations Officer; as well as myself, participated in a meeting in Arvada with Mayor Pro-Tem,
David Jones, the Arvada City Council, City Manager Mark Deven, and Mobility and Planning Innovation
Manager John Firouzi, and members of the city's Transportation Advisory Committee. The group engaged
in a collaborative discussion regarding city priorities, RTD's initiatives and programs, including Reimagine
RTD, both the system-optimization efforts currently underway, and long-term outcomes for transit service
delivery to the city as a result of the Reimagine process. Now I'll transition to our ongoing efforts to address
the unwelcome activity occurring at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area.
So the Reclaiming DUS Steering Committee and the related subcommittee meetings continue to meet on
a regular meeting cadence. The Denver Police Department and RTD's own sworn police force have
increased arrests, many of which are opioid related, of individuals in the vicinity of Denver Union Station.
As previously reported, 43 individuals were arrested in the Denver Union Station bus concourse and
surrounding area during a single operation that took place on Wednesday, February 23.
The City Attorney's Office has been successful in obtaining area restrictions for a number of individuals
charged with jailable offenses who may otherwise be released soon after their arrests. Based upon a Crime
Prevention Through Environmental Design, or commonly referred to as "CPTED," analysis performed by
the Denver Police Department, RTD has committed to pursue a myriad of short, mid, and long-term
modifications.
Within the next six months, an operative lighting will be replaced throughout the bust concourse; and
cleaning will be increased; pre-recorded audio announcements will be broadcast in English and in Spanish,
which will include information on services, fares, public safety, and, hopefully, will discourage unwanted
activities; enter and exit labels will be affixed to the sliding doors leading to the concourse in order to
facilitate customer flow; electrical outlets and walkway areas will be deactivated or covered. Within the next
6 to 12 months, lighting will be upgraded, TV monitors displaying security-camera feeds will be installed at
the main entrances so that security personnel on the ground can observe activities occurring throughout
the facility, commuter rail platform stairs will be converted to exit only, barriers will be installed to prevent
access to areas between the elevators and glass walls at the Wewatta and Chestnut pavilions, floor decals
and signage will be installed to encourage movement and discourage loitering, and smoke detectors will
be installed in the restrooms.

In the longer term, paid-fare areas will be implemented. This means that only those individuals who present
appropriate fare will have access to the bus concourse. While the creation of a paid-fare area is likely, the
most impactful change that can be implemented to curtail the unwanted activities taking place in and around
Denver Union Station, I want to stress that this is a significant change to current operations and must be
done in a coordinated and diligent manner. The agency will need to implement changes to fare collection
so that individuals can pursue fare media prior to entering the bus concourse, whereas, currently, those
departing from the concourse purchased fare aboard buses.
Additionally, turnstiles, exit gates, or similar must be installed at the entryways to the concourse.
Additionally, in order to activate the exit gates, all of RTD's fare media, including paper tickets, transfer
passes, mobile tickets, what we know now is EcoPasses and beyond will need to be updated. And the
agency will need to engage in a public-outreach campaign to inform and educate customers regarding
these changes. In addition to the paid-fare areas, capital program departmental employees are evaluating
the addition of roll-up doors to the vehicle entrances at the bus ramps, which would further prevent
unauthorized access to the concourse.
While these changes, along with an increased police and security presence, will have positive ripple effects
throughout the transit system, the unwanted activities impacting the agency are a byproduct of complex
societal issues that RTD alone cannot solve. And that is why mitigating these challenges will require an allin effort among RTD, community, municipal, and legislative partners.
Regarding employee ownership, I will discuss COVID-19 pandemic responses. So as most of you all are
aware, on March 10, the Transportation Security Administration, upon recommendation from the Centers
for Disease Control, announced the directive for mask use on public transportation be extended until April
18. As such, RTD's existing guidance regarding facial coverings for customers, contractors, and employees
remains unchanged, and facial coverings must be worn at all times when waiting at stations, stops, and
platforms, and while aboard revenue vehicles.
Health data indicates that the wave of Omicron-variant cases continues to decline sharply, with seven-day
case rates by counties served by RTD all hovering near 100 cases per 100,000 people. Cautious optimism
is appropriate at this stage, but we must continue to remain vigilant to COVID-19 threats, including the
threat of the new variants and subvariants that could evade existing vaccine protections.
Two of RTDs operating divisions, which are East Metro and Alade, remain in outbreak status, supporting
the state guidelines. And staff will continue to modder-- excuse me-- monitor case-rate data, as well as
incident reports regarding the new subvariant referred to in the media as "deltacron" to determine
appropriate next steps.
And lastly, a note regarding the temporary reduction of Telephone Information Center operating hours,
which will commence next Sunday March, 27-- like many work groups within the agency, the Telephone
Information Center is experiencing people-power problems, which, in this case, began in mid-2021. Several
vacant positions went unfilled through much of 2020 and 2021 due to reduced overall call volume. As call
volumes began to increase with more customers returning to RTD during the summer of 2021, hiring

resumed once again through that time period. And the vacancies did not receive substantial interest from
job applicants.
The new-hire class is scheduled to begin on March 28, with an expected class size of four individuals. As
it stands, the transit-- or I should say the Telephone Information Center cannot sustain the current hours of
operation with current staffing levels. And as a result, the hours will be adjusted.
The Transit Information Center will operate between 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM on weekdays and between 9:00
AM and 6:00 PM on weekends and most holidays. Call volume on weeknights between 6:00 PM and 8:00
PM has historically been low, representing approximately 5% of total leverage weekly call volume. Call
volumes on weekends has historically been even lower, with Sundays representing an average of 7% of a
typical-weekday call volume over a nine-hour period.
Further, RTD's extensive self-service tools offer alternative means for impacted customers to find the
information they need during these times. The temporary change has been announced since the week of
March 7 via the on-hold messaging. And I want you all to know that this decision was not made lightly, but
these changes are being implemented in the best interest of employees and customers in the long term.
I will say that we do envision that we will have a increase in the desire for applicants to apply to these
positions. As you may be aware, these are representative positions. And adjustments have been made to
the starting wages. So with that, Mr. Chair, my report is concluded, and I thank you very kindly for your
attention.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Miss Johnson. Do any Directors have any questions for Miss Johnson regarding
matters raised in her report? Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair, as always. CEO and General Manager Johnson, thank you for a
great and thorough report. Just one question regarding the unwanted activity at Denver Union Station. I
wondered if you could just comment on some of the specific collaboration that we have.
As you said, it's not something that RTD alone can address. And you mentioned the city of Denver and
other community leaders, as well as the state of Colorado. I'm wondering if you might just touch on where
we are with collaboration with other agencies, as well as the city of Denver, as well as the state of Colorado,
and how that collaboration is going and if we're getting everything that we need. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson, for your question. And I will say that the
collaboration amongst those entities that I referenced in the course of my report have been going well.
Specifically as relates to the collaboration with the City and County of Denver and the Mayoral
Administration, we engaged on a recurring basis. I would say that I am in contact with the Mayor's Deputy
Chief of Staff, I would say, at least two to three times a week, was engaged over the weekend, as well.

I am participating in a meeting tomorrow morning at the Mayor's Office, recognizing that there are various
department of heads that are involved. And I am speaking about the Chief of Police, being Chief Pazen.
I'm speaking about the Director of Public Safety. Our Transit Security Division is engaged with District 6
Commander and Lieutenant on a recurring basis.
There was a meeting that took place just yesterday as relates to us working in tandem with private entities
and reference to security issues, as well. And as we go forward and I made reference to some of these
elements pertaining to crime prevention through environmental design, I want to be careful with my remarks.
But I will say that there is an interest as it relates to supporting us from a partnership vantage point in
relationship to funding and more so as we talk about this credit risk premium that we're excited about getting
back.
Quite naturally, since the intent of that credit-risk premium worked for aspects of Denver Union Station,
that's something we are looking at as a prime source to make these modifications to Denver Union Station.
So as we go forward, there's going to be a lot of different work that's involved. And I want to also say that
there is an aspect that's very important to me, and several Board members and I've spoken with just in the
past few days know that this has been very trying for me in reference to trying to mitigate a situation that I
feel is untenable as it relates to the work environment for our employees. But it's something that I'm
committed to trying to do the best that I can with support from all of you, to try and ensure that we're
providing an environment where our employees or our customers don't have to look over their shoulders.
So in due time, I will be coming back to that in a more formalized manner, seeking some policy direction
from this body because this is an issue that's not indigenous to the Denver Metro region. However, I do
believe that this agency is in a different position, unlike agencies-- the Chicago Transportation Authority-that, for all intents and purposes, is a City Department that has the support of Mayor Lightfoot to do various
things, or when we look at New York City as it relates to Mayor Adams.
And Mayor Hancock has been a wonderful partner. Please don't misconstrue. But what I'm trying to bring
forward is that we are a regional agency that spans multiple jurisdictions. So it's not solely on the shoulders
of the City and County of Denver. And that's where we talk about state involvement. And there could be
some legislation as it relates to drug possession and things of the like that will help us overarching lead
with where we are currently. So Thank you very much for that question, and I hope that I answered your
question.
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Davidson, does it?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, it does. And it does seem that we need help. So
thank you for the comment, and we look forward to the further discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a few questions, but I also see there's a long line, so I may
just ask one now and then put myself back in the queue for equitable air time. Thank you, General
Manager/CEO Johnson for the great report, as always.

My question is, you know, I know earlier, the past yearish-- COVID sort of lacks time. But we requested
support from TSA, from different non-profit agencies, from different-- increased force, for lack of a better
term, an increased presence.
And what I hear from that was insufficient. It doesn't have to be [INAUDIBLE]. Can we get an update on
what remedies were tried. Taking a step back, What worked? What didn't work? And are those supports
still there, or were they more narrow time frames from our non-profit partners, GSA, and other regional
partners on that security force?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much. Mr. Chair, if I may proceed.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Dishell, thank you very much for the question. And before I answer your
question, I do want to make the qualifying statement that we can't enforce our way out of this. And so
keeping in mind that the Viper teams as we talk about from Homeland Security, the visible intermodal
preventive-response teams-- when we reached out to them, they basically left their post as relates to the
Denver International Airport and quickly adjusted. And this went all the way through Washington, DC.
The Viper teams are still there, not in the same manner in which they were. They're coordinating with Interim
Chief Martingano And we're getting dates, as it relates to March, when we talk about the volunteers that we
had with the Guardian Angels. They were out on the system on Saturday. So it's not as frequent as it was
before because, basically, there needs to be other aspects in which we need to do collectively, of which I
spoke about in my response to Director Davidson, that it needs to be more collective.
Now, keeping in mind that we do have other resources, we coordinate and we do have a-- what is deemed
as a "homeless outreach coordinator." We do have four mental-health clinicians that supplement our transitsecurity personnel when they are in and around the station and the system as a whole.
One thing that we're looking to do collectively-- and I commend Interim Chief Martingano for bringing this
forward. It's something of which I've been quite familiar with at other transit agencies-- but, basically,
deploying our security teams in such a way where we have our bus-riding teams, we have those assigned
to rail, and we have those assigned to facilities. That is something that we did not do collectively before
here at this agency that I believe can lend some support.
But first and foremost, we have to be clear that we do have an open system. And what I mean by that, for
those that are listening, that you do not have to use fare media to access a place in which to board the
system. And so when people come forward and they talk about the paid-fare areas, if, in fact, all we needed
was a sign, we would not be having this discussion here because people aren't adhering to that.
So it's going to take an investment holistically, and this cannot be done overnight. I am very cognizant of
the fact that I do not want to create an environment that does not appear to be inviting. However, we have
a very fine line in which we need to walk because we're not trying to penalize people. And I do not want to
make assumptions about who our customer base is because the operative word and what we do in public

transportation is public. And we do not pick and choose our customers because everybody's entitled to be
in that space.
So as we go forward, we're going to ensure that we're doing this with heavy compassion. We are still
working in tandem with other entities, as relates to Health and Human Services and things along those
lines. And the city and County of Denver have been very instrumental, and we're looking to have response
areas in which we could help address those that may not be quickly apt to embrace the services upon which
are being offered. So I hope that answers your question, Sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Yes. And thank you. It's not these issue [INAUDIBLE]. I'll hop back in the
line.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. thank you, Mr. Chair. And Director Johnson, Thank you for that extensive,
impressive report of your activities. You've been extremely busy and very effective. I appreciate it.
It's exhausting just to listen to everything that's been accomplished. And it's actually-- there's so much it's
difficult for me to absorb. I don't know if anyone else shares this feeling, but it would be helpful to have it in
writing, perhaps, after the meeting so we can refresh our memory of what it was that you were doing before
this particular report. But thank you for that.
Also, congratulations on your recognition as a pioneer for Women's History Month. That makes-- it's welldeserved. And we all really appreciate your leadership.
Also, congratulations on the participation in the Environmental Challenge. That's really a great step forward,
and we look forward to hearing more updates. And I'm pretty confident that RTD will be recognized for its
actions with regard to that.
Finally, my question is about the subarea service councils. We haven't heard how they are going to be
determined geographically. Are they going to be based on the travel shed idea and staff's data about
ridership in the travel sheds? And are they going to be similar to our president-- present stakeholder
listening divisions?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Sloan, for your comments and your compliments.
And just recognize that while I may be leading the organization, it's a collective effort of all the team. So I'd
be remiss not to acknowledge that.
As relates to my report, I will ensure that I work with the Board Office because this should be made available
to you in reference to a transcript and a link in reference to the minutes, so that's not problematic for me
whatsoever. So people can reflect and digest what I am putting forward since this is an oral report.

Thirdly, as it relates to the question that you pose regarding the subregional service councils, the intent
behind this is to have these individuals come together and put forward a recommendation as it relates to
the response to the Accountability Committee. And so I am yet to answer your question because they had
their first meeting where they all came together, and then, basically, they have a subsequent meeting. So I
would garner at the following meeting, we would be better suited to answer the question in which you posed.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're quite welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that question. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK Yeah, Thank you. First of all, I wanted to thank you publicly, and also, Michael Davies
and Bill Van Meter for coming out to Arvada. I thought it was a really positive meeting, and the feedback I
got from folks who attended was, likewise, positive. And they really appreciated your coming out and the
chance to exchange information, and dialogue, and share what's important and so forth. So thank you.
I am glad that Director Sloan raised the idea of sending through. I was going to request the same thing,
only at least specifically for the Union Station measures. You listed a whole bunch of things. And I get so
many queries at community meetings and things like that, it would be great to be able to share that. So
thanks.
And then I had a question about that. You said it sounds like we're going to close the stairwells at the
commuter-rail platforms at Union Station. So is that at the pavilions, or is that, strictly speaking, the
commuter-rail platform? And will they-- the escalators also be affected, or is it just the stairwells that go
down into the bus barn? I just want a little bit of clarification so I can tell people about that too.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Director Cook, for your comments. And I appreciate the
acknowledgment and reference to the meeting with the city of Arvada. As I conveyed to you, I really enjoyed
the engagement and thought it was very, very productive. So I appreciate that.
As relates to the stairwells roles recognizing that there are several interest points-- there are seven-- in
reference to gaining access into the bus concourse, the intent in reference to closing the stairwells-- that
would only be on the platform level for commuter rail. And those would be fire exits only, reason being, as
I've gone over-- and I want to commend Henry Stopplecamp, and I will happen to speak more specifically
if that would be helpful as well. The notion behind that is literally going into the bus concourse and seeing
people sitting on the stairwells, or sleeping on the stairwells, or smoking illicit drugs on the stairwells. And
so this is to help mitigate that activity going forward.
And so we're looking at a myriad of different things and recognizing that we did partner with the Denver
Police Department, who has the expertise and the crime prevention through environmental design. That's

how this all came full circle. But I would ask Mr. Stopplecamp to elaborate if that would be helpful. So Mr.
Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. Thank you, Miss Johnson. I think you nailed it. The stairs going up on to
the platforms and the two elevators in that location are an additional entrance. But what we're finding out is
people are hanging out on the landings and on the stairs. They're also abusing the elevators.
And so by using the DUS end, the Chestnut, and Wewatta entrances, we've got more control of people
going in and out of the facility. So that's the thought process to start with. Now, we can always open them
back up at a later date, but our goal is to reduce it from the seven entrances down to the three primary ones
and reduce this location to the emergency exit only.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. I appreciate that further elaboration. Director Cook-VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, does that answer your question? Yes, that's great. Director Lewis, you're
up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep my-- I just have a few-- I have a question, but I'll just start
with my comments first. So one of the things that I hope we also explore as we're talking about safety and
security is the STAR program and the CAHOOTS program, as well, and really thinking about, what does it
look like to have a comprehensive safety and security strategy?
I know, General Manager, because you and I have spoken, that you know this, but I say this for the sake
of the record, that how one community defines safety and security, another community may say, that
actually makes me feel unsafe. And so I would love the opportunity for us to bring in stakeholders that's
inclusive of operators, our customers, our riders so that we are having conversations about how folks are
defining safety.
I had a conversation with some folks, some constituents-- well, I think they were probably all of our
constituents-- last week, and they talked about, where are the opportunities for us to be able to collect
safety data, whether it be in our transit app, without asking a question. I didn't know this. I actually just
became aware that during the pandemic, when you would get on to our services, that you would get a
survey in the Transit app to say, is the bus full? Or helpful is the bus? And you had three options to choose
from.
And so I thought that was a pretty creative way to be able to collect data. And so I wonder if we might find
some creative ways in where we can collect data around safety and security, as well, outside of-- I know
we're talking about Union Station, but I think it's a great opportunity for us to talk about safety and security
within our entire system and not just in a portion of it. So those are my comments.

I do have a question about the Customer Care Center and the updates that you provided us, General
Manager Johnson. I missed the percentage that you noted for the usage of the evenings and the weekends.
And more specifically, do you have that and the number of people that are impacted, like after 6:00 PM and
on the weekends?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes so when the decision was made as relates to ensuring that we had adequate staff,
we looked at data because as indicated, most decisions in reference to us collectively are data-based. And
so as we look at where we are, what I was sharing and as I said before, we will ensure that this information
is provided to all of you in a transcript. So call volumes on weeknights between 6:00 and 8:00 PM, because
their hours will be reduced during the week by two hours, has historically been low, representing
approximately 5% of total leverage weekly call volume between those two hours.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK
DEBRA JOHNSON: And so as relates to where we are in relationship to Sunday-- and I'm scrolling through
to find this information, so bear with me.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, no worries.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And so when we talk about call volumes on-- weekends has historically been even
lower, with Sunday's representing an average of 7% of a typical weekday call volume over a nine-hour
period.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Is there a way in which we'll be able to capture when people are calling in during
the times that we won't have staff available so that we might be able to gauge if we find a contractor or-- I
hate to say contractor but just to be able to gauge if we might need to tweak that in some way.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, quite naturally, now, I can't speak. I'll have to double back with the team to
ascertain whether or not we can capture that data because if someone were to call in, I don't know know,
as relates to our software system that we have if we can capture that. But I will double back.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: This is a temporary remedy due to the fact, as I outlined, the same issue that we have
with other positions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --because we don't have enough people. And when we have someone in the call
center, we need to leverage a supervisor going forward. And what we're doing is trying to optimize our
people power.
And so I would surmise going forward, in relationship to where we are with the increase of wages and what
we're doing, that we could have an influx of applicants. So this is merely temporary as we go forward and I
would surmise would just be for a couple of months until we can get our staffing up, recognizing that we

were holding positions in advance due to the fact with 2020 and those positions weren't being filled, now
here we are at a place. And so as we go forward, this is what we anticipate. So it's only for, at this juncture,
a couple of months, as we make a determining-- as we make a determination relative to having enough
people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. No, that makes sense, as you see the benefits of the CBA. I just-- and I appreciate
you reminding me that it's temporary.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So thank you for that reminder.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And then I just wanted, as you talked about the STAR program and the other aspects,
we are working collectively. I just want that to be clear because I gave you a high-level overview. When I
come back to the Board to provide more specific information, we will talk about all the collaboration because
we are working in tandem with these entities, as you outlined, saying that we had had a conversation.
So I want to make everybody aware that this isn't being done in a vacuum because I concur what may be
safe and secure to one person may not be to another. And it's important that we engage. And I'd be remiss
to state, as well, that there is an Employee Committee as relates to this effort about DUS collectively in
which Michael Ford is co-chairing with Lance Longenbohn of ATU and wanted to ensure that we had
employees that are there experiencing these.
I have had the opportunity to engage firsthand with individuals working in our Customer Center down in
DUS who have told me when they come in for work that they need assistance in getting somebody from in
front of the door so they can walk in so they can ensure they're opening up the Customer Care Center on
location at its designated time because somebody's been sleeping there. An employee should not have to
do that.
And I do know that individuals have seen a lot of different things that are very impactful to their own personal
being, as well as their emotional state, and their overarching health and well-being. So as we go forward,
we're having these individuals be part of the conversations. But we can talk, and we can talk, but we need
to do something more to help create an environment that's inviting because, as we talk about where we are
with our Transit information Center and Telephone Information Center, we have to think we have frontline
employees that we're putting in a situation where we can't provide a safe operating environment. And that
is troublesome to me.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. Well, I do appreciate it. And I appreciate your, one, nuanced approach and
also, the comprehensive approach to safety and security. And as you're looking at the Board-- as you're
looking at coming back to the Board for a policy decision, I'm more than happy to go along with staff to see
it in real-time, as well, if that's beneficial, for us, as policymakers. Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis. Second Vice-Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Along the lines of Director Davidson's inquiry, as you were citing
all of the strategies to move Denver's Union Station from what's clearly an open system now to what I would
state as a semi-open system, I was seeing the dollar signs add up and know that some of those
improvements that would be necessary to facilitate that would-- could be fairly costly. I was pleased to hear
you say that the possibility of using the credit-risk premium return to us would be a possibility for funding
some of those necessary improvements.
I'm reminded that we're splitting that 50/50 with Denver. And I know it's a partnership with Denver, but when
that original funding mechanism through the RRIF program, and FTA, and all of the mechanisms that went
into purchasing and then financing the development of Denver Union Station, there were four partners.
There was RTD, DRCOG, City and County of Denver, and CDOT. And there may be resources at those
other two agencies that could be leveraged, whether it's funding or whether it's some of the resources, as
well as City and County of Denver, to try and facilitate those improvements.
And if in fact, we are looking at tapping the credit-risk premium refund, perhaps the City and County of
Denver could do that, as well. I'm just throwing that out there more as a comment rather than as a question.
Thank you. And I do-- I really do applaud you, Miss Johnson, for the really hard work in this difficult situation
that you're faced with. It looks like you all have given a great deal of thought, and kudos to you and your
staff.
Although I would remiss-- be remiss in not stating that what-- the comments that I get mostly from my
constituents are about the safety and security at Civic Center Station. So if we could, perhaps, expand the
dialogue to include that, but that's a totally different challenge because you don't have the underground bus
bay. But it still is a concern to some of the constituents that I've had dialogue with. So thank you very much
for being able to comment.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Miss Johnson. Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Catlin, as I referenced in my comments that we're working in partnership
with multiple partners, please know that I wouldn't have mentioned the credit-risk premium collectively if I
hadn't been engaging with the City and County of Denver as it relates to the partnership. So I just want to
make you aware that I'm not spending other people's money, that there is understanding that this is a
collective effort. And as it relates to Civic Center, as I talked about different deployment strategies as it
relates to our security and police personnel, that is included in that equation when I talked about bus riding,
rail riding, and facilities. So I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, thank you very much because I just want to state for the record that that's also
a concern for many constituents. And I really appreciate it. And I just wanted to bring in the fact that DRCOG,

which encompasses many of our partners across the region, and CDOT also could be leveraged as
resources in this dialogue. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. Director Dishell, may I go to Director Broom first for his
first question? Director Broom, why don't you go ahead. Thanks.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wonder if you could give us a feel for recent ridership trends. And
also, what are you hearing from major employers in the area about calling people back into work?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Broom. I did not hear the first part of your question.
I heard "ridership trends," but I didn't hear what you said prior to that.
BOB BROOM: I think that was the first part of my question. I was just trying to get a feel-- is ridership starting
to pick back up this spring? Or is it still just staying stagnant?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Broom, for that question. And I'm smiling because
Chair Buzek and First Chair Guissinger heard me respond to this as we were talking to members of our
congressional delegation. And so what we have seen is an uptick relative to ridership being more
pronounced on the weekends. As relates to where we are overarchingly, probably about anywhere 60% to
65% of what we were pre-pandemic levels.
As relates to the businesses holistically in reference to the engagement we've had thus far, there's a lot of
different entities in and around downtown that are anticipating people coming back to the offices in and
around April 1. And there were some that were supposed to be coming back to the office starting this week
in reference to, like, DaVita that's down here and others. And so there is a push collectively to get people
back in the office, but we'd be remiss not to recognize that necessity is the mother of invention and
recognizing the people have been doing a telework model for two years. As we go forward, that is
continuing.
So collectively, we're going to see possibly an uptick in transit. But from what I have garnered through
coordination with APTA and others, the transit ridership won't come back in the same manner in which it
was previously and probably will only be about 80% pre-pandemic.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Broom. Directed Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think you, Chair Buzek. A few questions-- the first is, when I've engaged with folks who
are in DUS, or on the buses, or light-rails from DUS who are engaging or very clearly about to engage in
unwanted behavior, a common thread that I hear and a common thread that's been reported in the media
from here and from that community is a desire for safe new spaces. Safe new spaces are for those where- spaces where they may use their illicit substances safely.

Has there been any discussion within, just globally, when figures or names? Or is that on the table
anywhere, just as a possible sort of human-focused approach? I'm not saying it should be on RTD's
property, but just, is that in the discussion?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Dishell, you're-- I believe you're referencing safe injection sites. And am I
correct in my interpretation, or did I misunderstand the question in which you posed?
BOBBY DISHELL: Both injection sites, and I've also heard from those who consume illicit substances
primarily using tin foil, [INAUDIBLE] amphetamine that they also would like just a safe, approved space,
similar to a safe injection site but [INAUDIBLE] I guess, inhalation site.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So I have been in discussions where that may have been touched upon. I do
not believe that there is an appetite for that at this juncture, and that would require state legislation, quite
naturally, as we look at a myriad of different factors going forward. So I will leave it at that because this is
really not within my wheelhouse, even though I've been privy to those discussions, because just by
happenstance, our properties and things have become those sites because of the absence in having a
designated, qualified site for that.
So perhaps I would defer to the Board collectively when we do have a more in-depth discussion relative to
where we are. That could be something from a policy level in which you all explore collectively.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you. And the second, is a question on staff training. Do we provide-- or
what training do we provide on-- for frontline workers, specifically on both trauma-informed response and
also, for them, second-hand trauma, mental-health resources.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question, Director Dishell. Just most recently, about, I
would say a couple of weeks ago, there are some training videos that were done in conjunction with a
myriad of different entities, being health-care clinicians, as well as other support services, as it relates to
training for our frontline staff. And Chief Martingano was engaging and leading that charge collectively with
the entities that I just outlined and was working specifically with our Operations Team.
Those are being finalized. It's my understanding this was an undertaking that commenced in early 2020,
and then the pandemic hit. So of course it's been picked up going forward. So that training has not been
leveraged in the same capacity. But these online videos are forthcoming to garner an understanding for
people that may have not encountered somebody dealing with autism, for somebody who may be on-under the influence of an opioid, and things of the like. So those elements are in the works.
And really and truly I should say, as well, we've had support from the Department of Public Health within
the city and County of Denver sending information. So all of this is in the infancy stages as we go forward,
recognizing that there has been a great illumination placed on this now because of the media attention that

it's garnered in relationship to us raising our hands and saying, hey, this is what's happening here, and we
need assistance.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And my last question is not related to DUS at all, which is on our call centers. Do
we leverage artificial intelligence either on call centers-- or I riders, customers can receive text alerts. Is
there a two-way street or any sort of AI leverage to backfill those and cut down customer-- temporarily cut
down customer call centers? Is there an opportunity to enhance customer experience through leveraging
artificial intelligence via text, or via phone to help customers during the hours in which, perhaps, someone
is not at the call center?
So thank you very much for that question, Dr.-- Dr. Dishell. I just sent you to medical school or got your
doctorate-- Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: [LAUGHS]
So with that, I would say-- and I will double back for certain, but really and truly, we do not leverage a lot of
that here at RTD. We do have an opportunity, as we look at our support systems and where we can go
beyond currently, so no, we don't. But I think that's-- that is a great direction in which we need to go.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Wonderful. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director. First Vice-Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, thanks, first of all. I know you're working really hard on this, and it's a
tough problem. I really applaud the environmental-design ideas that you and others are coming up with. Is
Greyhound involved in this process? Or do they need to be?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much for that question, Director Guissinger. So Greyhound is one
of our lessees. And there have been conversations, as it relates, just holistically, to safety and security, in
which we've engaged. Quite naturally, we want to be as communicative as possible. But for all intents and
purposes, as we talk about this, without-- this is an RTD issue, more or less. And we are incorporating
Greyhound into the equation because, quite naturally, with their customers, they would need to ensure that
they have paid fare media.
But on the flip side of it, there is already a kiosk that's located in the bus concourse that, basically, is used
for Greyhound customers. So the issue isn't really as prevalent as it is for us because we don't have those
mechanisms, such as a ticket vending machine that's on property in which one could utilize. So one could
be put topside.
And I do want to recognize, as well, that the crime prevention through environmental design-- that was
Denver PD. And our team partnered with them from the engineering expertise in the Capital program. So I
want to commend Henry and his team for, basically, accepting the role in which to partner in such a way
where we could look at this holistically.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, also, for the thorough explanations. I think they're very helpful tonight.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Two quick questions, I hope-- number one, is there
anything, Madam CEO, that you can share with us at this point, relative to the status of the search for a
new transit Chief of Police?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Recognizing this is a critical position. There
is an Executive search firm that has been retained, and that is getting underway. A kick-off meeting just
took place.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. And then secondly, we're only about 60 days or so out
from when the University of Colorado sponsorship for the A Line expires. Can you share with us the status
on finding a replacement sponsor for the A Line?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So what I can share, Director Tisdale-- and I know that [INAUDIBLE] and General
Counsel [? Snider ?] on the line-- we want to ensure, as we go forward, that there is an open process
relative to securing a sponsor as we go down this path and keeping in mind that is highly unlikely that we
will have a sponsor in place when the contract with the University of Colorado sunsets. Recognizing that
there are signage and other aspects it will probably be more in line with, I would say, the beginning of the
calendar year because that needs to be intertwined into a service change and things of the. So as I have
preliminary discussions regarding a timeline, that seems as if that will be most optimal.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And General Manager, back to the issue of Denver Union
Station. I'm curious if there's any data on customer satisfaction and reaction to some of the measures that
you, and the team, and Denver Police Department and others, partners have engaged in to improve the
safety and the sense of a comfort level of being at Denver Union Station. Is there any feedback? Maybe
fewer complaints? Maybe-- what is sort of the finger on the pulse or more that we have stemming from your
efforts?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Rosenthal. I would say that the question in which you
pose I can't give you any data. It would be anecdotal. And as a person that traverses the area on a daily
basis, from my vantage point, we have work to do.
And so while I'm not a fare-paying customer, I would say that we are in a place that I would not want to tout.
I think there has been valiant efforts on the part of a myriad of different partners, but we have work to do.

And so as we go forward and we look and working in tandem with our partners, for instance, it'll be more
structured because what we've done thus far outside of leveraging Viper, since security has all been about
the enforcement.
These different elements that I talked about, the short term-- we've yet to see any benefit because they
have not been implemented. These are in process. I wanted to ensure that you all had an understanding
of what's happening before they would actually happen.
And so I can't respond to your question. There's not any data. And I can tell you that I get emails daily, on
a regular basis. I know our Union partners do. I get photographs of biohazard and biowaste.
There's remnants of tinfoil. There's unused needles. And I see that firsthand. So I can answer the question
anecdotally and say, we have work to do.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I appreciate your efforts.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for the report. Thanks for the discussion. We're going to move forward now.
One thing-- let me backtrack for a second to the committee reports. The Ad-Hoc Audit Committee-- the
Audit Committee has had some initial organizational meetings. Directors Cook and Broom-- they're going
to be having their first formal meeting next month. And so Ms. McManus, if you're listening, if we could add
the Ad-Hoc Audit Committee to the Committee reports beginning in April, that would be great.
Moving on next is the unanimous consent agenda.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Chair Buzek. Chair Buzek, If I may, Sir. I raised my hand. I'm sorry to jump in.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I didn't see you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to qualify. I believe you intended to say TABOR and not the Audit
Committee. Its TABOR
VINCE BUZEK: Oh. You're absolutely right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice-Chair Catlin was panicking, I think. So [LAUGHS] thank you. TABOR Ad-Hoc- TABOR committee. Great.
Unanimous consent agenda is next. There are two items on the unanimous consent agenda listed under
items-- Roman 15 has actions A and B. And they are the Delegation of Authority and Competitive Selection
and the May 2022 Service Plan.

If anyone has a comments or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise me at this time,
and I will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration under
recommended action. Does anybody want anything pulled from the unanimous consent agenda? Seeing
none, may have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
KATE WILLIAMS: To move, Director Williams.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams, and there's a second by Director Rosenthal. Do I have any "no" votes
on this action item? Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No, I don't have anything. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Any other "no" votes? Any no votes? Seeing none, the consent agenda passes
by a vote of 14 votes, 1 absent. It Takes care of that.
We have no recommended action items on the agenda. Are there any other matters to come before the
Board of Directors? Director Broom, your hand's still up.
BOB BROOM: Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, go ahead. Director Broom, you're on mute.
BOB BROOM: A point of personal privilege.
VINCE BUZEK: Please go ahead.
BOB BROOM: I'd like to recognize my wife Ruthie. We're going to celebrate our 60th anniversary tomorrow.
It's been a wonderful adventure.
VINCE BUZEK: That's fantastic, Director Broom. Congratulations to you and to your wife. Everybody-LYNN GUISSINGER: That is great.
VINCE BUZEK: --thumbs up.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: How did she put up with you for so long? But great. Fantastic. [LAUGHS] Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, I want to first say congratulations to Director Broom and his wife-- very exciting
things. I did want to bring up-- so we heard very early on in this meeting regarding RTD's efforts in to Spare
the Air and Fares. I felt it would be appropriate for us, as an agency, to look into RTD waiving fares on
November 8 of this year, which would Election Day. As many as yo know, midd-- midterms-- excuse me--

have pretty low voter turnout. And I believe offering a free day for Election Day would be greatly beneficial
to increasing voter turnout throughout all of our districts.
So I think it would be excellent to know the feasibility of offering a fare-free day on Election Day this year.
Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. General Manager Johnson, do you want to respond? Or you want to take that into
consideration and get back to us?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, Chair Buzek, Thank you very much for asking. I greatly appreciate it. And I would
say this is something that I'm quite familiar with, having come from the state of California and working at
various transit agencies that already had this as a practice. So needless to say that I support the concept
wholeheartedly because I really do believe that providing something of this magnitude-- it's an effort to
reduce the barriers to voting for individuals that rely upon transit service for mobility.
So recognizing that we do know the cost, because we just did this for Spare the Air day. That's roughly
about $340,000. If it does please you, Mr. Chairman, we could bring this back as a discussion item to
facilitate a further discussion. And so I would be more than happy to work with the team to get that and
bring that forward, I would say, to the Finance and Planning Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Let's do that and give us plenty of lead time now. So that would be great. Let's bring that
back. Thanks, Director Bouquet, for bringing that up. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Just to dovetail a little bit on Director Sloan's comments, the delivery of the current
events, if you will, from Miss Johnson was extremely thorough and rapid-fire. And I just want to make sure
that we do have access to that in the written form because it's such a powerful reference when we get
questions, or some of us that attend NATA it's a very good source for information. Otherwise, I'm probably
going to take my NATA time and just throw it right over to you Debra, anyway, like I've done in the past,
which would probably be more effective anyway.
But I do appreciate Director Sloan bringing that up. And it's just good information for all us to have if we can
make that happen. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, Chair Buzek. If I could build on Director Bouquet's request,
hopefully, without complicating it too much. I first want to, of course, shout out Director Lewis, who I believe
brought this before the Board in 2020 before I was on it, but I did listen to the meeting, as that was an issue,
I believe, back then. But also if we could evaluate the time period during which people have their ballots,
where we have ballot drop boxes because I think everyone on this call is aware Colorado is a mail-in ballot
state. Many of our ballots get distributed before. I believe most people actually vote on Election Day.
But to the extent we're evaluating it holistically, the right to vote and the ability for folks to vote-- if we could
look at fares during that-- not just November 8 Election Day but during that entire period of time, we'd utilize

RTD to exercise the right to vote and participate in our democracy. I'm not saying it should be it. Now, I
know that would astronomically increase the cost but just so we can say we looked at it and make an
informed decision.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I'm sure staff can do that, and look at it, and and give us numbers. Miss Johnson,
do you want to respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. You just answered my question, Sir. I just wanted to clarify what the expectation
was bringing back a discussion item. Holistically, we do have numbers as we're looking at-- at that for Spare
the Air Day. So we know what the cost is per day and also have to keep in mind-- and then this goes for
Spare the Air Day recognizing I just went on record saying that I support creating access for people,
especially to exercise their constitutional right. But there's a gamut of different things that we have to take
into consideration as we talk about social services and the same thing we're evaluating as we look to Spare
the Air.
So I just want to be transparent and manage all expectations going forward. I support the day in and of
itself. But I know you can vote. You can mail your ballot like three weeks in advance. So if we talk about
that, there's another period. So I'll hush. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK Great. Director Rosenthal, take us out, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, my. Whoa, I'm the last one up. I guess, building on what Directors Dishell and
Bouquet said, Yeah, we really have over 90%-- I think it's 95% or so of folks do vote by mail. So it is a
relatively lower number of folks who do vote on voting-- on Election Day.
I tend to vote in person. I'm one of the very few. But I do enjoy doing that. But I look forward to looking at
this proposal as it comes forward, along with any other possible days that we might have fare-free.
I'm Jewish, but maybe Christmas might be a good day to consider not having fares, maybe some other day,
as well-- New Year's. I think we already have no fares on New Year's, perhaps-- that might be the case-in order to facilitate folks who-- make sure that they're not driving-- drinking and driving. So I'd like to see,
potentially, some-- I guess a number of possibilities for fare-free days that we can choose from. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Miss Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I would offer up that we can provide the cost. And I would defer to the Board as
relates to what the desire is from a policy vantage point. So I just want to be clear in reference to what we
will do as staff going forward, recognizing that we started with general election days and totally up to you
all. We're here to serve but recognizing the impact just collectively,
I just want to ensure that I'm not picking and choosing about which days. So we'll provide that data as the
cost per day and leave it to you and put that forward for discussion. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Director Bouquet, take us out.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Well I would appreciate-- I don't want to overwhelm staff. I would appreciate if we could
just potentially focus on November 8. And that is kind of our guiding principle, then potentially looking after
that discussion, from going there.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That would my preference as a director.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Got it. I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved, Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis. Second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams second. Any "no" votes to adjourn? Did somebody say no? With 14 in
favor and none opposed, we are now adjourned at 7:26 PM. Thanks, everybody for the great discussion
and information. See you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]

