Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 20, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
November 20, 2007 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve Board members were present at the time of roll call. Director Ruchman arrived late
and Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Dean Shaklee presented Paul Leroy Tidwell, a 34 year Street Supervisor employee to the
Board. Mr. Tidwell introduced his wife and thanked RTD and the Board for taking care of him
for 34 years.
Bus Roadeo Special Recognition
Director Bruce Daly read the names of the winners and Chair Chris Martinez presented the
winners who were present with a certificate and small gift from the Board. The following
employees were present:
John Deschner
1st
Bus Operators
Lowell Froid
2nd
Bus Operators
Dan French
3rd
Bus Operators
Larry Perkins
1st
Maintenance
Kevin Steele
1st
Maintenance
Paul Sanchez
3rd
Maintenance
Debra Garcia
2nd
Service and Cleaning
These employees were not present but their names were read as additional winners:
Ben Carroll 1st
Maintenance Mark Deay-Reusch 2nd
Maintenance
Kurt Akin
2nd
Maintenance
Mitch Higgins
2nd
Maintenance
rd
rd
Paul Sanchez 3
Maintenance Ron Pfeifer
3
Maintenance
Robert Daniels
3rd
Maintenance
Mike Deering 1st
Service & Cleaning
rd
Robert Duran 3
Service & Cleaning
Guy Pierce
1st
FM Snow Plow-Single Axle Truck
Richard Seedroff
1st
FM Snow Plow-Single Axle Truck
nd
James Mohan
2
FM Snow Plow-Single Axle Truck
Jim Shaw
2nd
FM Snow Plow-Single Axle Truck
Bob Alford
1st
FM Snow Plow-Tandem Axle Truck
st
Leo Dowd
1
FM Snow Plow-Tandem Axle Truck
Larry Mitchell
2nd
FM Snow Plow-Tandem Axle Truck
Ken Brown
2nd
FM Snow Plow-Tandem Axle Truck

Mr. Leo Dowd called to express his regrets in not being able to attend but to share his
appreciation with the Board.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Bryan Wareing, Golden, spoke to the 2 billion cost override of the RTD budget and indicated
this amounted to a cost of $2600 per family. He stated FasTracks would consume 1/6 of 1
lane traffic per day and that he was not sure if this gross underestimation was due to
ignorance or fraud. Nevertheless, FasTracks is not maintainable, will cost thousands of homes
and people’s livelihood, loss of good will and is plain ridiculous.
Steve Fesch, Denver, indicated that he owns the property at 2750 W. 14th Street across from
the Decatur Station. The first time that he had an indication his property was at risk was
September 24th when he received a letter. He supports light rail but has a problem with the
approach and the way it was communicated. He would like to work with RTD to find some
alternative solution. His livelihood is tied up in this property and he would like to work with
Director Chacon on coming up with another solution. There are approximately 8000 people in
his Bronco fan group who would be affected by this loss of property. For him this is a life
changing experience.
Kim Snyder expressed this was a meeting that represented the appearance of cooperation. Her
property located at 13th and Wadsworth was labeled incidental property but she had
discovered this property had been rezoned for the erection of a 6 story development unit. This
was just another form of legalized collusion to take property and sell to the developers. She
hopes RTD enjoys its 20 pieces of stolen silver and they may take their property from them
but they cannot take them from their property.
Tom Wamboit, Colorado Property Rights Coalition, petitioned on behalf of the property owners
to not take their property away. He felt this was a monstrosity and that people had not been
properly notified. The constituents there did not vote for RTD to be a polluter. Perhaps we
need another vote. RTD needs to provide more public hearings and obtain more input from the
general public.
Galen Foster, husband of Kim Snyder, angrily stated that if RTD did not want to work with
them, he will slow the process down or die trying. He had spoken to Bob Murphy, Mayor of
Lakewood who said his place was a landmark. If RTD could not work with them, he will slow
the process down. They can count on it.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, expressed thanks from the 285 coalition to RTD for delaying
closing the park and ride and for grading of the lot. This has improved the area greatly and
they look forward to a more permanent plan for keeping this park-n-Ride.
Tammy Specht, Thornton, advocated on behalf of the riders at the Wagon Road park-n-Ride
and the route 122x. She offered up several options including re-adding the Thornton park-nRide to the Skyride route, checking into use of the Avaya parking space and adding a 3rd bus to
this route.
Melissa Barnes, Bailey CO, also represented the 285 Coalition and expressed appreciation for
the temporary solution at the park-n-Ride. She stated that she is looking forward to a more
permanent solution which will be a win-win for all.
Mike Muller, Lakewood, stated that he had been battling RTD for over 20 years. He is not a
big fan of light rail or RTD. For the last 8 years, RTD has gotten worse and a larger number of
lives have been adversely affected along with taking of personal property. He discovered that

RTD has bought up property that they are saving it for their favorite developers. This is
against the law. RTD needs to stop the lies and promises that are made should be kept.
Holman Carter, President of ATU, stated he is a life long supporter of mass transit. He wanted
to extend a special thanks to Director John Tayer who visited with him at the First Transit
Division in Longmont where they have been under a mandated overtime for 6-7 months. He
encouraged RTD to work with First Transit to come up with a solution and that he is available
to be a facilitator in this matter.
Director John Tayer responded with a thank you to Holman for providing the opportunity to
walk in someone else’s shoes.
Director Daly noted that this location has experienced heavy turnover for a number of years.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no updates for the committee reports.
Chair Martinez reminded the Board that beginning with the 2008 schedule, the committee
and Board meetings will occur each Tuesday night.
Director Christopher stated that he and Director Tayer had prepared a proposed RTD
Region-Specific Sales Tax Forecasting Model and wanted RTD to pursue having its own
Sales tax model. This issue will be further discussed in the Finance Committee. A copy of
this proposal is available in the Board Minute Notebook located in the Board office.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF October 16, 2007
MOTION:
Director Ruchman moved for the adoption of the October 16,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Chacon,
Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Tampa City Council Workshop
Cal Marsella shared he had been invited by the city of Tampa to talk about the RTD
experience. Tampa is emulating the RTD system there and was interested in what RTD is
doing here. Cal shared best practices and key learnings. Tampa plans to come to Denver
later on and will be hosted by Cal. Tampa picked up the cost of his expenses.
2. West Corridor Citizens Meeting-November 12, 2007
Due to a meeting conflict, Cal did not attend this meeting but heard that the meeting
went well. The RTD team put all the outstanding issues on a matrix and made good
progress in the discussion.
3. Union Station
There was recent press coverage on the design changes to the Denver Union Station. RTD
and the developers are committed to building the program but will need to address some
of the financial realities of such a large program. FRA had expressed issues with the
underground design. RTD is in top of the issues and still committed to deliver DUS on

schedule to meet the West Corridor development.
4. Presentation to Brighton Economic Development Corporation
Cal Marsella provided an update to the Brighton Economic Development Corporation on the
East corridor and North Metro. They expressed interest in protective buyin and the City of
Brighton is reviewing their comprehensive plan to capitalize on opportunities provided by
the rail.
5. Update on UP Location
RTD is working with UP and the Fort Lupton community to fashion a win-win.
6. Other Matters
Director McMullen commented that taking DUS at grade helps to resolve a number of
issues and problems.

VIII.

PUBLIC HEARING FOR 2008 RECOMMENDED BUDGET
Chair Martinez read aloud the public hearing and asked for questions or comments. Hearing
none, the hearing was closed and a motion made to accept the 2008 recommended
budget.
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein made the motion to approve the 2008
recommended budget.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director McMullen moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-O
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

2008 Purchase Order for Off-Duty Denver Police
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a 2008 purchase order for the
Denver Police Secondary Employment for $463,008.00 Funds for the 2008 purchase
order are in the 2008 requested budget.

B.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 23DM013 with Carnation Building Services for
Bus Shelter Cleaning & Maintenance, Option Year Four
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the fourth and final Option Year
and amend Contract 23DMO13 by $180,000 to a revised contract amount of
$604,000.

C.

Resolution No.___, Reimbursement Resolution for 55 Light Rail Vehicles
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, (the “Reimbursement Resolution”) expressing the
intent of the Board to be reimbursed for any up-front payments which may be made to
Siemens related to the procurement of 55 light rail cars prior to the time the vehicles
are financed.

D.

Recommendation for Contract with the Burlington Northern Railroad for Conceptual
Engineering for the Northwest and Gold Line Corridors
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with the BNSF Railway
Company (BNSF) for a not to exceed amount of $300,000 for conceptual engineering
of the East and Gold Line Corridor to determine the feasibility of the RTD required
operations and acquisitions for BNSF property in those two planned FasTracks
corridors.

E.

Request for Approval of the Fourth Year (2008) Contract Award to Delcan for the
FasTracks Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth year contract award to
Delcan in the amount of $1,335,000 for Quality Management Consulting Services for
FasTracks for the year 2008. Funds for the award are contained in the 2008 RTD
FasTracks Budget.

F.

Approval of Fourth-Year Contract Award to Strategic Community Partners for the
FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth-year contract award to
Strategic Community Partners, the current FasTracks Public Information/Involvement
Consultant, in the amount of $1,057,852 for Public Information/Involvement,
Communications and Public Outreach consulting work for FasTracks for the year 2008.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2008 FasTracks Budget.

G.

Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison services) with
Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2008 through January 31,
2009) to extend Contract No. 14-DX-101, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2008 budget.

H.

Denver Transit Construction Group Early Procurement/Early Construction Change
Order
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract number 16-FF-W01 for the
Denver Transit Construction Group, the West Corridor Construction Manager/General
Contractor (CMGC) to allow for:
1. Procurement and fabrication of bridge steel girders for bridges at Indiana,
Wadsworth and Consolidated Mainline.

2. Procurement and fabrication of steel for bridge trusses at 6th Avenue (US6)
and S. Platte River.
3. Procurement and fabrication of raw copper for signal cables, switch cable,
substation positive and negative return feeder cables, impedance bond cable
and cross bonding cable.
4. Early construction bid and construction of bridges for light rail fly-overs at
Kipling Street and the east and west Dry Gulch bridges.
The cost of this change order is not to exceed $29,000,000.00 including contingency.
Funding for this work is available in the West Corridor budget and has been approved
through a Letter of No Prejudice (LONP) request under Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) guidelines. The LONP was received from FTA on September 25, 2007.
I.

West Corridor Early Procurement of Light Rail Track and Ties
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to solicit for and award the procurement of
3,800 tons of 115 pound light rail, 800 tons of industrial quality rail for guard rail and
40,000 standard concrete cross ties for the West Corridor. The cost of this
procurement order is not to exceed $8,700,000 including contingency. Funding for
this work is available in the West Corridor budget and had been approved through a
Letter of No Prejudice (LONP) request under Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
guidelines. The LONP was received from FTA on September 25, 2007.

J.

Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Greenwood Village for
Construction of a Transit Plaza at Arapahoe at Village Center Station
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the board of
Directors approve an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Greenwood
Village for construction of a transit plaza at the Arapahoe at Village Center station,
including authorization to the General Manager for expenditure of not to exceed
$1,800,000. A total of $1,600,000 is in the T-REX Budget and $200,000 in the
2008 FasTracks Budget.

K.

Approval of On-Board Passenger Travel Surveys Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract to NuStats for the completion of the On-Board Passenger Travel Surveys
project for an amount not to exceed $600,000. The total cost of the project is
$1,000,000. Funding for this effort is coming from a Federal Transit Administration
(FTA) grant, the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG), and RTD. Funding
for the FTA and RTD share ($800,000) is included in the RTD 2008 Budget.

L.

Approval of 2007 and 2008 Contract Amendments for 16th Street Mall Transitway
Lanes – Granite Paver Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to accomplish the following two amendments to the Mall Paver Contract.
Amendment #1: Increase the current contract funding for maintenance of the Mall
Transitway Lanes for the remainder of 2007 through December 31 by $ 175,000. This
amount is currently included within the overall 2007 amended budget.
Amendment #2: Exercise the second year option of this contract and authorize
$800,000 funding for 2008. This amount is included within the 2008 budget.

M.

Amendment of ADA Contract for call-n-Ride awards
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of

Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the new ADA
paratransit services contract with Special Transit (17-DH-028) and MV Transportation
(17-DH-007) for the provision of call-n-Ride service. The amendment to Contract 17DH-028 shall not exceed $3,843,447 for the initial 3 years and $6,580,969 for the 5
year period for call-n-Ride services. The amendment to Contract 17-DH-007 shall not
exceed $7,418,126 for the initial 3 years and $12,703,062 for the 5 year period for
call-n-Ride services. This cost includes an estimate for fuel which will be treated as a
pass through expense. This contract is scheduled to begin January 1, 2008 and
operate through December 31, 2010 with possible extensions through December 31,
2012.

IX.

N.

Award of access-a-Ride Paratransit Services-revised
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into contracts with
four (4) service providers, MV Transportation, Global Transportation, CUSA, and
Special Transit, for the provision of access-a-Ride Paratransit Services. These contracts
are for three years with two (2) one year options. The combined amounts for the initial
three (3) year contract terms shall not exceed $79,516,724. The combined amounts
for the two (2) one-year options shall not exceed $32,298,512 total in option year 1
and $35,816,824 total in option year 2. The combined total amounts for these
contracts shall not exceed $147,632,060 for the five year period. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in amounts estimated to total approximately
$14,745,200 for the initial three year contracts and $26,670,700 for the five year
period. This results in combined contract totals not to exceed $94,261,924 in total for
the initial three year contracts and $174,302,760 for the five year period. These
proposals represent the most responsive and responsible proposals received in response
to Request for Proposals (RFP) 17-DH-007, to provide Paratransit Services. The
contracts to provide this service are scheduled to be effective January 1, 2008.

O.

Adoption of 2008 Performance Measures – Goal 6 measures 6.2 and 6.3 and Goal 7
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopts Goal 6 measures 6.2 “Increased Ridership” 6.3 “Increased Farebox
Revenue” based on the approved fare increase, and Goal 7, “To Meet the Future
Transportation Needs of the District” to be included in the 2008 Performance Report.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Q.
Resolution No.__ Series of 2007 Salaried Employee Pension Trust – Trustee
Appointments
AMENDMENT TO
PRIMARY MOTION: Cal Marsella offered up an amendment to the primary
recommendation to replace Phil Washington, AGM, with a
mid-manager salaried employee, Linda DeHerrerra, and
Marla Lien.
SUBSTITIUTE
MOTION 1:

Director Yamrick offered a substitute motion for the
resolution for the Salaried Employee Pension Trust
Appointments.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

SUBSTITUTE
MOTION 2:

Director Christopher offered a second substitute motion
to appoint three RTD Board members, three members of
the salaried employee class—two from senior

management and one from middle management and the
RTD Senior manager of Finance to be the Board of
Trustees for the Trust.
Director Yamrick seconded this motion.
DISCUSSION:

MOTION TO
TABLE
(POSTPONE):

Director Kemp indicated he was in favor of having a midlevel management representation but he was unclear on
what having 3 Board members on the Trust would do.
Marla Lien responded that having three Board members
would make this an open meeting with recording and
taping of meetings.
Director Kemp stated he felt this change was a late
submission and felt the Board could have been more
disciplined in doing this earlier.
Director Christopher responded this was really a
governance issue and trying to address an imbalance of
power. The Board has fiduciary responsibility and there is
a need to even out the imbalance.
Director Yamrick stated that from her workshops and
discussions she has learned that what can happen to an
imbalance Board is fraud and speculation. Having a 3Board member would put this as a public meeting with
open meetings.
Director Ruchman weighed in favor of the amendment
stating that the sunshine issue is a non-matter and that
in fact this issue of composition has been on the table
for years.
Director McMullen, Elfenbein, Pulliam and Quinlan
expressed that RTD has one of the best pension run
plans in the country and they favor status quo—if it is
not broke, don’t fix it.
Director Daly indicated he had heard some discord in
the makeup of the trust.
Director Kemp indicated he favored Cal Marsella’s
amended recommendation.
Director Christopher made a motion to table his substitute
motion until the December meeting.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION TO TABLE
SUBSTITUTE
MOTION 2:
The motion to table the substitute motion proposed by
Director Christopher passed with 8 in favor (Daly, Kemp,
Martinez, Christopher, Kinton, Tayer, Ruchman and
Yamrick) and 4 against (Elfenbein, McMullen, Pulliam and
Quinlan). Director Chacon had left the meeting and
Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

MOTION TO
TABLE
SUBSTITUTE
MOTION 1:

Director Yamrick made a motion to table the substitute
motion 1 until the December meeting.

Director Christopher seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION TO TABLE
SUBSTITUTE
MOTION 1:
The motion to table the substitute motion 1 proposed by
Director Yamrick passed with 9 in favor (Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Martinez, Christopher, Kinton, Tayer, Ruchman
and Yamrick) and 3 against (McMullen, Quinlan and
Pulliam). Director Chacon had left the meeting and
Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
MOTION TO
TABLE PRIMARY:

Director Yamrick made a motion to table the primary
motion with the amendment made by Cal Marsella.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION TO TABLE
PRIMARY
MOTION:
The motion to table the primary recommended action
with the amendment made by Cal Marsella passed with 9
in favor (Kinton, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Christopher,
Martinez, Tayer, Ruchman, and Yamrick) and 3 against
(McMullen, Pulliam and Quinlan). Director Chacon had
left the meeting and Directors Brohl and Busck were
absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED. This
action will come before the December 18th Board
meeting.
Director Tayer requested more information on the pros and cons of the Sunshine
issue.
R.

Revisions to the Board Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement
Policies
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors approve the
revisions to the Board Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement policies
that will make the policies consistent with the I.R.S Guidelines for reporting of business
expenses under an accountable plan. The recommended plan is the receipts based
method.
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein moved that the Board of Directors
approve the revisions to the Board Local, Travel and
Telecommunications Reimbursement policy.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Kinton wanted to know why the receipts based

method was preferred over the per diem method.
Director Quinlan responded there are three conflicting
issues with IRS, complexity of travel and
documentation.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer,
and Yamrick) and 1 against (Kinton). Director Chacon
had left early and Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

S.

Approval of Proposed Access Control System for County Line Station to Park Meadows
Mall
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to execute all documents
necessary to implement an Access Control System at the County Line Station
pedestrian bridge access point adjacent to Park Meadows. The total capital cost of
the access control system is $351,000 and is funded through the T-REX budget.
Annual operating costs are estimated to be $50,000.
MOTION:

Director Quinlan moved that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to implement an Access
Control System at the County Line Station pedestrian
bridge access point adjacent to Park Meadows.
Director Kinton seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 8 votes in
favor (Elfenbein, Kinton, Kemp, Quinlan, Martinez,
Pulliam, Ruchman, and Tayer) and 4 against
(Christopher, Daly, McMullen and Yamrick). Director
Chacon had left early and Directors Brohl and Busck
were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

T.

Update to General Manager’s Delegation of Authority
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the replacement of Resolution No. 7 Series of 1990, titled
“Delegation of Authority”, adopted August 14, 1990 with the attached Resolution
No.__ Series of 2007.
MOTION:

Director Tayer moved that the Board of Directors
authorize the replacement of Resolution No 7 Series of
1990 titled “Delegation of Authority” with the attached
Resolution No. _ Series of 2007.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Christopher,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Tayer, and

Ruchman) and 1 against (Yamrick). Director Chacon
had left early and Directors Brohl and Busck were
absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
U.

Purchase of Fifty-Five (55) Light Rail Vehicles
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate a sole source contract with
Siemens Transportation Group, Inc. (Siemens) for the procurement of fifty-five (55)
light rail vehicles to meet future transportation needs of the West Corridor, the
extensions planned in FasTracks for the Southwest, the Southeast, the I-225 and the
Central Corridors, and the enhancements to the Southwest and Southeast Corridors
planned in FasTracks. In addition, RTD will continue to find ways to better
accommodate bike, strollers, wheelchairs, etc. on existing high floor equipment,
carefully monitor FTA changes in vehicle technology as it relates to low floor vehicles
and ensure full compliance with those requirements. RTD will also continue to work
with Operators and Passengers to address accessibility issues with current
configuration, continue to explore options that may offer low floor access for at least
one exit/entrance to each train, and to come to a better understanding of additional
costs incurred presently by using high floor vehicles in terms of costs of ramp
construction and additional dwell time that occurs at each station.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors
authorize the purchase of 55 light rail vehicles.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Christopher,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Tayer, and
Ruchman) and 1 against (Kinton). Director Chacon had
left early and Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

V.

Approval of the Fourth Year (2008) Contract Award to Carter & Burgess and
Associates for FasTracks Program Support Services Consultant (PSC)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth year contract
award to Carter Burgess and Associates, in the amount of $13,173,589 for
Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks for the year 2008. Funds for
the award are contained in the 2008 FasTracks Budget
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve the fourth
year contract award to Carter & Burgess and Associates
for FasTracks Program Support Services
Consultant.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer,
and Yamrick) and 0 against. Director Chacon had left

early and Directors Brohl and Busck were absent.
Chair Martinez
Unanimously.
X.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

declared

the

motion

Director Pulliam made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of Simmons vs. RTD,
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (c) and Negotiations on the sale of
property at Santa Fe and Alameda, C.R.S 24-6-402(4)
(a).
Director Kinton seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Martinez declared the vote PASSED.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:08 p.m.
XI.

PASSED

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, November 20, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
O’Neill P. Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jeffrey Cluphf
John Deschner
Sherry Ellebracht
Lowell Froid
Mike Gil
Marla Lien
Cal Marsella
Alice Osner
Larry Perkins
Scott Reed
Cal Shankster
Joe Smith
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington

District B
District J
District G
District I
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Rolf Asphaug
Dennis Cole
Kevin Diviness
Reed Everett-Lee
David Genova
Ed Gonzales
Lloyd Mack
Andy Mutz
Jerry Nery
Daniel Pinto
Scott Roberts
John Shonsey
Kevin Steele
Bill Van Meter
Rick Clarke

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
Holman Carter (ATU Local 1001)
Susan Deschner
Tori Deschner
Chrstine French
Victoria Martinez
Brian Middleton (Jacobs Carter Burgess)
Roger Sherman (CRL)
Ty Perry
John Hulse (Spectrum A/V)
Paul Tidwell
Diana Tidwell
Marg Roggeman
Janet Arrowood
Brian Wareing

John Dawson
Phil Eberl
Daniel French
Debra Garcia
Brian Iacono
Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue
Liz Rao
Dean Shaklee
Bill Sirois
Pauletta Tonilas
Michael Washington

Steve Fesch
Jessica Guerrero
Kim Snyder
Galen Foster
Robert Baxter
Robin Kniech (FRESC)
Harry Schreiber
Rick McNeal
Michelle Halstead (CDOT)
William James (James RE)
Linda Wamboit
Tom Wamboit (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Larry Warner (PB)
Lucia Sanchez
Ed Colby (URS)
Tammy Specut
Melissa Barnes
Steve Barnes
Jon Esty (ColoRail)
Jim Guswassiter
Gary Johnson (Parametrix)
Selena Dunhamn (Classique LLC)
Kimberly Ioya (Classique LLC)
Faanchell Dunham (Classique LLC)
Bill Roettker
Mike Muller
Max Tyler
Steve Roescher (Siemens)
Ed Kieta (Colorado Commercial Real Estate)
Dave Minshall

