1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:53 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:50 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Remote

6:54 PM
6:50 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:50 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:50 PM
6:53 PM
6:53 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Remote

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:54 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:53 PM

John Tayer

Director, District O

Present

7:00 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:51 PM
6:51 PM

Directors Folska and Menten participated by phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Tarbert, Bill Weidenaar

Others Present:

Chris Barker, Celina Benavidez, Matt Christiansen, Jane Donovan,
Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Van Groves, Tom Grushka, Nehemiah
Hall, Robert McNown, Jon Moellenberg, Ted Rutledge, Jason
Simmons, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Purchase of Up to 34 Mall Shuttle Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to
exercise the option of Contract 19FK001 with DesignLine USA for the
purchase of up to 34, 45-foot mall shuttle buses to replace the existing
TransTeq mall buses at a price not to exceed $24,147,350.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
meeting on January 22, 2013.
Director Daly seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
stated that in 2010 the Board approved the purchase of two
(2) DesignLine mall buses. The RFP included the option to
purchase 57 additional buses for a five year period with pricing
for additional buses being based on the initial base pricing plus
a price adjustment set by the US Department of Labor
Producer Price Index (PPI).
The mall buses are unique due to their length, number of
doors, low floors and demanding service. These units will
replace the existing TransTeq mall buses. TransTeq went out
of business and many of the components are obsolete and
there are no replacement parts and the buses are 12-13 years

old. Staff has asked for feedback from users and operators
and they have decided to move ahead with the purchase if
approved by the Board.
Director Lasater asked about the cost per bus. Lou Ha,
Manager of Technical Services, stated that the cost is
$735,000 per bus. Director Lasater asked for clarification on
the statement about purchasing 57 buses. Lou stated that the
RFP included the 57 additional buses, because at the time
staff did not know what the 18th Street circulator would
require. Bruce Abel mentioned that they are not anticipating
using the buses for the 18th Street circulator, and don’t
expect to use the full 57 bus option. The cost of the buses
takes into consideration the unique specifications RTD has for
the mall shuttle.
Director Malpiede asked if they are looking at air circulation
inside the buses, since during the summer months it can get
very hot inside the buses. Lou stated that they are negotiating
two changes; they will add fans to aid on the air circulation
and the skylight windows will be tinted so they don’t absorb
too much solar energy. Director Malpiede also asked if they
are looking at the rear wheel issue. Lou stated that due to
government regulation which requires a dual rear axle, there is
less space at the rear of the buses. Bruce Abel stated that
another modification they are negotiating is the movement of
the doors location; the manufacturer will move the middle door
to facilitate the boarding and will also work on the rear axle. It
will be more user friendly. Director Malpiede thanked them.
Director Daly asked if there is still an issue with the delivery by
DesignLine. Lou stated that the original two vehicles were
prototypes, and because they were still working with the
manufacturer on the design, they had some delays; however
they don’t expect delays in the future. Director Daly asked
what the delivery timeline is for the new buses. Lou stated
that the forecast is one year from notice to proceed. Director
Daly asked what kind of engine the buses will have. Lou
stated that they will have micro turbine engine similar to the
ones on planes, but in a smaller scale. This will generate the
energy to charge the battery and provide electricity to drive
the vehicle. It is a hybrid and will run on battery half of the
time and the other half will run with help of the turbine engine.

Director Hoy asked what the capacity of the new buses is
versus the current fleet. Bruce Abel stated that the current
vehicles allow 150 passengers and the new buses capacity is
100. Director Hoy asked if this will require making
adjustments on the service. Bruce Abel mentioned that since
the mall shuttle will work with the 18th circulator, the staff
will evaluate the need for more vehicles and service changes
once the circulator opens. Director Hoy stated that cost to
maintain the current fleet should be higher than the cost of
purchasing new buses. Bruce Abel stated that because the
manufacturer of the current fleet went out of business, some
parts are not available anymore.
Director Walker asked if they will look at reducing the number
of trips of the mall shuttle. Bruce Abel stated that they will
review the impact once they open the 18th circulator. He also
stated that they have budget for 32 buses and they are
currently negotiating the adjustments which might allow
purchasing an additional bus.
Director Solano asked for the location of DesignLine. Lou
stated that they are located in North Carolina.
Director Folska asked who pays for the mall shuttle operation.
Bruce Abel stated that RTD pays for the operation of the mall
shuttle service while some local businesses pay for the mall
maintenance. Director Folska asked if there are any other
agencies that could share in the cost of the buses, or if there
is a model that we can look at for the operation of the shuttle
and circulators. Director Tobiassen asked to take that
discussion offline as it is not part of the agenda.
Director Tobiassen asked if the current fleet is running on
biodiesel. Lou stated that in the last few years the
government has reduced the diesel exhaust emission which is
now very similar to CMG emissions.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
REMOTE:
Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten

• April 2013 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed April 2013 Service Change
on to public review and comment.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to
move this item to the full Board
meeting on January 22, 2013.
Director Walker seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel introduced Jesse Carter, Bus Operations Manager,
who stated that due to the completion of the West Light Rail
and adoption of the West Corridor Service Plan, some changes
in bus and light service are slated to begin on April 28, 2013.
Additional routine service changes not associated with the
West Corridor Service Plan are also necessary to maintain
system on-time performance. They will continue to focus on
adjusting services in response to the January 2012 service
revision and changes in ridership and operational performance.
The service changes that will take place in April 2013 reflect
the continued budgetary challenges faced by RTD while
continuing to observe the guiding principles for service
changes such as service performance evaluation based on
RTD’s Service Standards; effects on the overall integrity of the
transit network and transit dependent markets; availability of
alternative services to affected riders; cost-effective
distribution throughout the district and family services; Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act and response to changes in the
communities where services are provided.
Bruce stated that they will use the passenger alert system to
send messages to the users of the three routes impacted.

Director Tayer asked what changes would be occurring to the
Skip route. Jesse stated that they will have the bus out a
little bit later.
Director Lubow stated that constituents do not like service
changes especially if service is reduced. She asked if when
changes are needed, the staff can provide something in
writing as why the changes are made. Jesse stated that
usually they create a brochure for the public and they have
open lines for public feedback and questions. Bruce Abel
stated that typically they bring a full report to the Board
detailing the proposed changes and why they are being
proposed. That Board Report is then translated into
pamphlets, brochures and signs for buses and light rail.
Depending on the severity of the changes they hold very small
or large meetings. Director Lubow stated that she would like
to see a package before it is approved. Bruce Abel stated that
the usual process is to go to the stakeholders first, then the
staff comes to the Board with the proposed changes and asks
for authorization to go out to the public for feedback. Once
public outreach has been done they come back to the Board
with that feedback and amended recommendations.
Director Deadwyler stated that it seems no matter what we do
in terms of public hearings, participation is very low. She
asked what else we can do to get the information out. She
mentioned that she has received complaints from her
constituents when they have not heard about the changes.
The two step process we have in place does not seem to be
working. Bruce Abel stated that no matter how much they
reach out, they always get complaints once the changes take
place. They are always trying to find new ways to
communicate. Jesse stated that they went to the business
community and neighborhood associations and that seemed to
have yielded higher participation.
Director Daly followed up to Director Lubow’s question and
stated that the staff usually provides a very detailed package.
Director Solano asked if they are looking at the Spanish
speaking demographic for those outreaches. Jesse stated that
they have to do a Title VI review on any major changes and
English language proficiency (ELP) is part of that evaluation.
They also look at how to put together the document and if
they need translation.

Director Folska asked what the impact is in the area of
passenger with disabilities. Bruce Abel stated that there is no
ADA impact as a result of these changes.
Director Tobiassen mentioned that he has had good feedback
on the alerts systems and he likes the idea of using the system
for public outreach.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
REMOTE:
Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten

C. Updates

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Abel introduced Eric Farrington, Project Manager, who is in charge of
the project. Eric stated that the report is in the packet and asked for any
questions.
Director Daly congratulated the staff for not having red in the report. Eric
stated they adjusted the delivery date; that way they will only get red when
issues are really falling behind.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce stated that the Smart Media fare collection system went live on
January 1 for the ECO and College pass customers. Employees serving as
“ambassadors” staffed RTD light rail platforms from December 27, 2012
until January 11, 2013 with some area colleges’ platforms staffed until
January 21, 2013.
Director Tayer congratulated the staff. He stated that this is a change and a
challenge but he complimented the staff for the way they handled the
customer service part of this project.
Director Deadwyler also congratulated them and thanked them for
responding to the issues and keeping her informed so she could get back to
her constituents on a timely basis.

Director Folska stated that she has also received tremendous positive
feedback about the Smart Card. She congratulated the staff for a job well
done.
Director Tobiassen mentioned that he has also received positive feedback.

D. Other Matters
Director James wanted to acknowledge Director Tayer for his work preceding him
in the Finance Administration and Audit Committee as well as Chair of the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force. He thanked Director Tayer for the great job he has done.
Director Tobiassen mentioned that he has received complaints about smoking on
light rail platform and bus stops. He wants to bring it to the Board’s attention and
see how they can address this issue.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 12, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:41p.m.

These minutes were prepared by Ana Ochoa-Salcido, Temporary.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

