Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue

Date:

March 20, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 20, 2012 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy,
James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Deadwyler, Malpiede,
Williams and Walker
Chair Kemp joined the meeting via conference call.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Martha Bembry, Michelle Boyd, Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke,
Lee Cryer, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Tina Jaquez, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Brian
Matthews, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, Bill Sirois, Henry Stoppingcamp, Walt Stringer,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Phil Washington, Del
Walker, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Matt Alexander, Heather Balser, Deborah Baskett, Mitchell B, Karen
Benker, Lloyd Ship Brown, Mac Callison, Gary Eckhardt, John Elias,
Joni Gosheen, Stanley Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Dale Honor, Iris
Ilseman, Jeff Ilseman, Galina Leiphart, Connie Johnson, Lee Johnson,
Harris Kenny, Malcolm Kenney, Sarah McGregor, Mayor Bob MuckleLouisville, Steve Muetting, Mayor Bob Murphy-Lakewood, Pete
Naseth, David Okada, Aric Otzelberger, Daryl Orr-Fox 31 News, Rick
Pilgrim, Gene Putnam, Megan Quinn, Steve Roescher, Jacob Roger,
Josh Sapir, Ira Schreiber, Jonathan Singer, Marta Sipeki, Jason
Simmons, J. Souby, Solie Swan, Barb Stephens, Leslie Stephens,
Roger Sherman, Chris Taylor, Blancha Trejo, Scott Weeks, Brian
Weldon, Desiree Westlund, R. Paul Williamson
****

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 2
Call to Order

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Public Hearing: North West Rail Options
Committee Chair Cohen opened the meeting up for public hearing on the proposed
North West Rail Options
Mayor Bob Muckle-Louisville, read a letter which was sent by the US 36
Mayors/Commissioners Coalition indicating that the BRT and Light rail option (Hybrid
option) might be viable assuming a number of outstanding questions are answered.
He also stated personally that as the Mayor of Louisville, he could support the Hybrid
model. He thanked staff for the tremendous amount of information provided and the
work that went into this issue.
Jeff Ilseman from Longmont read a 1 page proposal supporting the merits of
extending the line into Louisville inside Boulder County. He indicated that several
locations such as Longmont, Lafayette, and Louisville could all be serviced from this
station and there would not be any need for RTD to go down I-25 or US 36.
Ira Schreiber of Aurora reiterated his point that the proposed BRT is fraud. RTD is
not proposing a real BRT solution such as they have in Australia but an advanced
bus service. He also thinks the Hybrid plan gives everyone a little of something but
nothing of anything substantive. He recommended RTD delay this decision and go to
Option 2.
Desiree Westlund, FRESC, expressed appreciation to the staff for their creativeness
in the Hybrid model. She urged continuous dialog and working with the region to
provide fair and equitable transportation options for the region.
Karen Benker, Longmont and former RTD Board member, indicated she was a former
City council member in Longmont and had served 8 years on the RTD board. In
2004 the voters of Longmont approved the FasTracks plan which included the
promise to extend rail to the Northwest corridor (Longmont) by 2020. Although
things have changed, they still expect RTD to honor this commitment. She
referenced the collective voting power of the Boulder county cities and stated that
RTD could not win an election in such a difficult economic year without the full
support of these constituents. She also talked about her experience with the “Guide
the Ride” campaign in spite of polls indicating something different. She reiterated
the need for a solution that is equitable to all corridors and the entire system must
be built.
Jim Sousby, Colorado Rail Passenger Association, reiterated his previous position
that RTD should go with the system as originally proposed.
Connie Johnson talked about flexible partnership and the rumors she is hearing about
the proposed options. She has been a dedicated 25 year rider of the RTD system
and during this time service has eroded. She is concerned about the plan.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 3
Blancha Trejo of Golden stated she represents a group of about 35 schools with
children from working families. They would like to see access to TOD and are in
favor with expansion of the entire transit system. All working families can benefit
from the full buildout of the system before 2042.
Harris Kenny, Denver, indicated that he works for a non-profit public policy group
and quoted Pauletta Tonilas statement on the RTD mantra to build as much as we
can, as fast as we can. He talked to some of the benefits of BRT and requested
RTD to continue to be transparent in all of its process.
State Representative Jonathan Singer, State House District 11, reminded the Board
of a letter sent by 12 members of the House coalition requesting RTD to stay with
the original promise and to deliver FasTracks as promised.
II.

Recommended Action
2012 Annual Program Evaluation – Decision on Northwest Corridor Implementation
Committee Chair Cohen read the recommended action in its entirety for record.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a hybrid of the options previously presented for the Northwest
Corridor, which incorporates, and is in collaboration with stakeholder feedback, input
and elements from the other options. Approval of this option by the RTD Board of
Directors will allow staff to include these assumptions in the 2012 financial plan that
will then be submitted to DRCOG for review as part of the SB 208 process. The RTD
Board of Directors does not have the authority to unilaterally change the use of the
tax and debt authorized for the FasTracks plan that was approved by the voters in
2004. If the RTD Board of Directors chooses to proceed with a sales and use tax
election in 2012, an amended plan will be referenced as part of the ballot question.
Approval of the ballot measure will include approval of the plan amendment. If the
ballot measure fails, the 2004 plan will remain unchanged.
The recommended option assumes a successful sales and use tax election in 2012,
and would include the following:


No schedule or cost impacts for any other partially-funded corridor projects as
compared to the 2011 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)



Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from Church
Ranch to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original 0.4% sales
and use tax. Also, with the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue
all alternate sources of funding and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as
soon as possible. Funding is anticipated to be available to initiate construction
and begin revenue service during the period of 2028 – 2034
o

This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for Northwest Rail,
inflating the cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the
financial model to determine when RTD has the financial capacity to
expend the funds needed to complete the rail line

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 4


A combination of an incremental segment of diesel-multiple unit (DMU) commuter
rail in the Northwest Corridor Area with revenue service commencing at a point
between 2020 - 2022 and a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020, as
depicted in Figure 1 below, that will provide comprehensive, immediate
relief/mobility improvements for the region
o

Including funding for an Environmental Assessment or Environmental
Impact Statement that will be required prior to finalizing an exact BRT
alignment.



Extension of the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station (DUS)
to the Church Ranch Station to provide bi-directional peak period service for
commuters connecting to/from DUS. Extending rail to Church Ranch would
provide approximately 12 of the 41 miles of commuter rail for the Northwest
Corridor (30% of the complete corridor length), and will allow RTD to continue
moving forward with our ultimate vision of building rail to Longmont



Based on conservative estimates of cost, it is currently anticipated that funding
would be available to complete this rail segment with revenue service
commencing at a point between 2020 - 2022



RTD’s remaining financial commitment to Phase 2 of the US 36 Corridor BRT
project, $82 million (YOE), would be available in 2014 and 2015



In addition to the $82 million (YOE) remaining for the US 36 Corridor BRT
project, $894.6 million (YOE) would be provided to expand the BRT system in
the Northwest Corridor area by 2020. This financial cap (including prior
expenditures) was based on last year’s Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and
was chosen to reflect the level of capital funding available to complete the
FasTracks program by 2020



Consistent BRT service levels, as identified through the SB 208 process and
subsequent environmental analyses, until five years after opening of the full BRT
system – after which time all routes would be required to meet service
standards. RTD will also increase service, according to service criteria, if
ridership levels increase to such levels where they dictate more BRT service in
the corridor.

After the reading of the action, Staff was asked to provide their updated
presentation. A copy of the full presentation is available in the FasTracks Minute
Notebook located in the Board office.
Bill Van Meter provided a recap of the timeline and processes of how we had gotten
to this point. He referenced staff recommendations noting two in particular:
o Building a bus rapid transit(BRT) system by 2020 that will provide cost
effective, immediate relief improvements for the Northwest corridor
o The opening day (2022) cost for the FasTracks program under this
staff recommendation is $7.4 billion. This compares to the $7.8 billion
for Option 1.
Bill Van Meter also referenced the various sources of funds which can be found on
page 11 of the presentation. This shows that RTD will have the capacity to deliver

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 5
on the financial plan.
Bill Van Meter referenced some of the responses to critical questions that have been
asked relevant to the proposal.
o Will RTD fulfill its promise to complete commuter rail to Longmont and
if so, by when? The schedule for completing the NW Rail line from
Church Ranch to Longmont will depend on funding availability.
Funding is anticipated to be available during the periods of 2028-2034.
This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for NW rail,
inflating the cost to year-of expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the
financial capacity to expend the funds needed to complete the rail line.
o How much will the initial segment of commuter rail to Church Ranch
cost? RTD’s current estimate for this segment of rail is between
$350-$425 M (YOE)
o Is $894.6M enough to build a BRT system that meets the mobility
needs of this corridor? In coordination with our stakeholders, RTD
identified propose capital improvements necessary for a successful
BRT system. RTD then developed a cost estimate that incorporates
these assumptions. The cost estimate fit within the funding cap with
a conservative amount of contingency.
o Does the staff recommendation represent an investment greater than
the original FasTracks plan contemplated? How much more? In terms
of what would be funded under a new sales and use tax, the staff
recommendation for this corridor is approximately $400M (YOE) less
than option 1 (which assumes no BRT and the NW rail line being
completed to Longmont by 2024). Funding from the NW rail line from
Church Ranch to Longmont will be provided from the original 0.4%
sales and use tax. Funding is anticipated to be available to initiate
construction and begin revenue service during the period of 20282034. The combined cost of BRT and the NW rail line to Longmont
would increase the long term investment in this corridor by
approximately $700 million in base year dollars as compared to option
1. Total cost in YOE will depend on timing of construction. Building
BRT provides an immediate relief to the corridor and could provide long
term benefit to taxpayers in the Northwest Corridor.
o Will RTD agree to develop an enforceable document with stakeholders
to provide assurances that the remaining partially funded corridors will
be constructed?
RTD is willing to work with the stakeholders
throughout the district to identify specific language that will be
reflected in an amendment to the FasTracks plan. This amended plan
will then be referenced specifically in the ballot language (should the
RTD Board of Directors decide to move forward with an election)
General Manager Washington indicated that they had only highlighted the main
questions but they have included in the Board’s packet a list of all the questions
which they will make available to the public.
Questions/comments from Board Members:
Director Williams asked for a clarification on the paragraph in the Board report that
talks about the 5 years on BRT service levels. She requested that a clarification is

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 6
provided in the report to state that service levels could increase (get better) within
these 5 years but would not degrade.
Director Williams also asked about page 12 of the PowerPoint and if the second tax
would have an end date to go away. VanMeter indicated when the debt issued is
completed.
Director Tayer expressed sympathy with the concerns expressed by many of the
people. He requested more information around:
1. What will it take to build the program within a 10 year timeframe?
2. Clear sense of the cost breakdown on the different segments (i.e. Diagonal,
US 287, etc)
He also clarified that BRT has always been in the FasTracks plan. As time has
progressed and the economics changed, the building out of BRT over time has
become more expensive and has changed from including HOV lanes and other such
increments. BRT has always been included in the FasTracks plan and is not a
discussion of one versus the other. He also agreed with Karen Benker that this is a
rough year to go back to the voters for a sales tax increase and while he is skeptical,
we also need to build FasTracks as soon as possible. He will support the Hybrid plan
for the purpose of keeping the process moving forward while continuing the dialog
and details of the program. He emphasized that he must have full details and
commitment in place. This may provide the Northwest region with more immediate
short term options while we look to build the program out fully. He thanked staff for
their excellent analysis.
Director Hoy asked about page 14 on the PowerPoint where the question asked “by
when”. He felt the response was a bit fuzzy and did not directly answer the
question. Bill Van Meter referred him to the response on page 16 which stated
“funding for the Northwest rail line from Church Ranch to Longmont will be provided
from the original 0.4% sales and use tax. Funding is anticipated to be available to
initiate construction and begin revenue service during the period 2028-2034.”
Director Anderson asked for a clarification on page 16 which states option 1
assumes Northwest Rail completion by 2024. She thought it was 2042. Bill Van
Meter responded this is predicated on successful sales use tax and assumes the
$1.7B.
Director McMullen stated the assumption that if the Board approves this option but
the voters do not approve a sales and use tax increase, this will default to the old
plan. He appreciates the hard work staff has done on this analysis and in bringing to
the Board’s attention the gaping hole that the Northwest Rail costs now present. He
believes we should keep to the promise but that the agency has to be fiscally
responsible. This enhanced plan provides opportunities for jobs, affordable housing,
workforce initiative and the whole regional community can benefit.
Director Bagley indicated he will vote against this for the purpose of moving it to
recommended action where it can be further discussed at the Board meeting.
Committee Chair Cohen summed it up by saying he is supportive of the hybrid plan
but his personal preference is we go sooner than later. He is not making a
statement of going to the voters. This is still open. We also need a better definition

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 7
of BRT where everyone can be in agreement on what it means. This needs to be
further vetted.
Motion:
Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the March 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.
Vote on
the motion:

Malpiede

seconded

the

The motion passed with thirteen in
favor (Anderson, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
and Williams) and two against
(Bagley, Deadwyler)
Committee Chair Cohen declared
the motion PASSED.

2012 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption and Approval of 2011 Annual Report to
DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize a financial plan that assumes an election in November,
2012 with a new sales and use tax increase of 0.4% commencing in January,
2013. This financial plan incorporates all of the assumptions of the “hybrid”
option presented to the RTD Board of Directors on March 5, 2012, and updated
on March 20, 2012, including:
 Extending the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station
(DUS) to the Church Ranch Station with revenue service commencing at a
point between 2020 - 2022 to provide bi-directional peak service for
commuters connecting to/from DUS;
 Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from
Church Ranch to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original
0.4% sales and use tax. Also, with the full understanding that RTD will
aggressively pursue all alternate sources of funding and corridor savings to
complete the rail vision as soon as possible. Funding is anticipated to be
available to initiate construction and begin revenue service during the period
of 2028 – 2034;
o

This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for
Northwest Rail, inflating the cost to year-of-expenditure
(YOE) dollars, and testing
the financial model to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 8
determine when RTD has the financial capacity to expend
the funds needed to complete the rail line;
 Building a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020 that will provide cost
effective, immediate relief/mobility improvements for the Northwest Corridor.
The opening day (2022) cost for the FasTracks program under this staff
recommendation is $7.4 billion.
It is further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of
the RTD 2011 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes
the changes to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which
have been approved by the Board during the last year.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board of
Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the
capability for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential
scenarios for completion of the FasTracks program.
Questions/Comments from Board members:
Director Williams asked regarding the last paragraph of page 1, “If the Board delay
going to the ballot, will an amended plan to DRCOG have to be filed?” Bill Van Meter
responded that his expectation would be an amended financial plan. Director
Williams further stated that in the case where an independent poll may show this is
not the time to go to the polls, we may need to abort. Marla Lien, General Counsel
explained that the Board has until August to certify the ballot title and this would
require DRCOG’s review. Director Anderson stated that the only vote on this to
move this forward to accomplish FasTracks before 2042. The DRCOG process
speaks to the financial viability of the plan but does not measure the validity of a
campaign. DRCOG needs to start their financial evaluation by April 1st.
Committee Chair Cohen restated that this moves the item forward as 1 more step in
the process.
Director O’Boyle provided his support on moving this forward. He and the people he
represents in the south support FasTracks.
Providing better service to the
Northwest corridor is a fiscally sound decision. The businesses are still supportive of
going to the ballot now-they prefer sooner to later. RTD needs to be positive and
forthright. This is good for the community.
Director Anderson stated this option does not delay any other FasTracks project.
This is a positive look at how we can provide the Northwest corridor and preserve all
the other corridors. This keeps the total plan intact.
Director Bagley stated he will vote against this for the purpose of moving it to
recommended action for further discussion at the Board meeting.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 20, 2012
Page 9
to forward this item to the full
board at the March 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Vote on
the motion:

V.

The motion passed with thirteen in
favor (Anderson, Cohen, Daly, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker
and Williams) and two against
(Bagley, Deadwyler)

Committee Chair Cohen declared the motion PASSED.
Other Matters
Committee Chair Cohen announced that Ken Burns had resigned as co-chair and
member of the Citizen Advisory Committee.

VI.

Next Meeting Date –
The next meeting is scheduled for April 3, 2012.

VI.

Adjourn to Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting
The meeting adjourned at 7:03 p.m.

