2023-11-13
Performance Committee Meeting
SPEAKER: And you can go ahead and start.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, everybody. Welcome. The Monday November 13 Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 5:32 Mountain Standard Time. I'd respectfully ask everybody
attending to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Mute yourself.
VINCE BUZEK: Wow.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MARJORIE SLOAN: That didn't mean you, Debra.
ERIK DAVIDSON: See what I'm talking about?
VINCE BUZEK: They didn't get it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: See what I'm talking about?
Thank you for all joining us this evening. Please note that the committees of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held in a hybrid fashion and will be audio and video recorded. The meetings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please
visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
I will now call for the roll of committee members.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here. So we have six Directors present from the committee.
For the sake of the record, I can see in person that we also are joined by Directors Tisdale, Director
Rosenthal, Director Harwick. We have Director Dishell. We have Director Whitmore, Director Bouquet.
We have Director Broom. We have Director Buzek. I'm sorry, you were already called. And we will be
joined shortly by Director Ruscha.
We'll now move to the public comment section. We'll open up to public comment for anyone who would
like to address the committee regarding any topic in the published meeting agenda for the current or
immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and you have not already done so, please either raise
your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this time the committee will not offer any
comments in response. However, you may contact the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Do we have any questions or comments?
JACK KROLL: We received nothing ahead of time. We have no one here in person to provide comment.
And no one on the live stream has indicated a desire to make a comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Thank you very much. With no participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time.
We will this evening have an executive session. So prior to that, are there any other matters that should
come before this committee?
Seeing none, we will go ahead and move towards our executive session. In a moment, the committee will
meet in executive session to discuss the GM/CEO's 2023 performance appraisal and the proposed 2024
performance goals.
I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the committee meeting will
be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public transparency, this means
that once the committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following-- wait for it-- pursuant
to Section [? 246-402-4fl ?] CRS, for consideration of personnel matters regarding presentation by
General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson of 2023 performance self-appraisal and preliminary
comments from the Board of Directors, as well as proposed 2024 performance goals and discussion of
the same.
Do we have a movant?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Guissinger's next to me. So we have the mover as Sloan, second as
Guissinger. For anyone present but not expected to participate in executive session, would you please
clear the room--

DOUG TISDALE: Take a vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm sorry. Thank you. Any no's to this, to move to executive session? Shocking.
Excellent. Great.
With that, I'll now ask everybody who will not be participating in the executive session to please clear the
room.

