1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 27, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Tisdale asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Installation of New Board Member District - N
Chair Tisdale announced that the Board of County Commissioners of Jefferson County
appointed Margaret “Peggy“ Catlin to fill the vacancy in Director District N, the seat
formerly held by Jefferson County Commissioner Tina Francone and that Director Designee
Catlin would be sworn in by Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel.
Mr. Asphaug then performed the swearing in ceremony for newly appointed Director
Catlin.
Chair Tisdale thanked Mr. Asphaug, and he congratulated Director Catlin and asked her to
join the Board of Directors at the dais.

IV.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson

Title
Director, District L

Status
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Director, District C
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:13 PM
5:23 PM

Peggy Catlin
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

4:59 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present

5:26 PM
5:26 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:31 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:18 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:30 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District H
Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present
Absent

5:24 PM
5:26 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 12 Board members present at roll call. Directors
Deadwyler, Hoy, and Williams were absent.
Chair Tisdale stated that Director Deadwyler was indisposed and unable to participate. He
wished her good health and a quick return.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Michael Barnes, Shirley Bennett, Larry
Buter, Nicole Carey, Jessie Carter, Lou Cripps, Sherry Ellebracht,
Terry Emmons, Michael Ford, David Genova, Bob Grado, Anne Hillyer,
Laurie Huff, Dave Jensen, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Mike
Meader, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Zamy Silva, Kim
Smith, Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Lisa Trujillo,
Bill Van Meter, Luke Westlund

Others Present:

Jennifer Aggrey, Jessica Aggrey, Phoebe Amoako, Gretchen Armijo,
Nathan Axvig, Jan Barnes, Diane Bomar, Joel Catlin, Andrea
Chiriboga-Flor, Shelly Cook, William Dillon, Jenee Donelson, Linsey
Feitz, Tina Francone, William Gross, Anne Herzenberg, Stacy Johns,
Janiece Mackey, Nathaniel Minor, Christine Pendley, Jamie Perkins,
Maria Reardon, David Sachs, Matt Samelson, Kristen Seidel, Jeff Su,
Dan Stiff, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Felipe Vieyra, Bob Wilson, Deyanira Zavala, Christopher
Zvolanek

Chair Tisdale discussed RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.

V.

Retiree Awards
Chair Tisdale noted there were four retirees for the month with three in attendance.
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, introduced Mr. Mike
Barnes and his wife, Jan, a former RTD employee. He stated that Mr. Barnes had been an
employee with RTD for 25 years working in the Computer-Aided Design department (CAD)

and had worked behind the scenes on every FasTracks project. Mr. Stopplecamp thanked
Mr. Barnes for being a great asset to RTD.
Mr. Barnes stated that for 25 years he had been a member of a great family and that RTD
was a great place to work. He added that he began his career at RTD as a temporary
employee and ended up staying for 25 years. Mr. Barnes thanked all of his friends and
employees with RTD.
Henry Stopplecamp introduced Mr. William Ferares and stated that it has been a pleasure
working with Mr. Ferares over the past 26 years. He added that Mr. Ferares had been
responsible for maintaining facilities all over the district.
Mr. Ferares thanked his team, especially Ron Posey and Robin McIntosh, for all the
support to make his position a success over the years.
General Manager Genova introduced Mr. Terry Emmons, stating that Mr. Emmons had
been an incredible value to the Senior Management Team and a tireless contributor who
was well respected by his peers. He added that Mr. Emmons was always on duty,
prepared, ready to go, and ready to meet any challenge. General Manager Genova stated
that Mr. Emmons was a man of faith, character, integrity, and a great friend. General
Manager Genova detailed the many positions that Mr. Emmons had during his 35 years at
RTD, which included bus mechanic, bus operations and training instructor, light rail
operations supervisor, senior manager of rail operations, and finally as the Assistant
General Manager of Rail Operations. He added that Mr. Emmons had been included in
every rail expansion project that RTD has built and he was also in the inaugural MultiAgency Exchange program and was graduate of Leadership Academy program. General
Manager Genova stated that upon retirement Mr. Emmons was going to spend time with
his family, camp, fish, golf, travel, and have fun. He thanked Mr. Emmons for all he had
done for the community and the agency.
Mr. Emmons thanked General Manager Genova for his kind words and the Board for his
acknowledgement. He added that RTD was a big family and that he would miss all the
great talented people that he had met and worked with over the past 35 years. Mr.
Emmons stated that RTD had many great leaders that have mentored him and helped him
through his career. He thanked RTD for all the opportunities and all the people that had
inspired him.
Chair Tisdale recognized Dispatcher Vicki Vafeades-St. Croix for her 29 years of service to
RTD.

VI.

Public Participation
Chair Tisdale stated that the public participation period was open to anyone who wanted
to speak. He explained that elected officials were invited to speak first, and others would
be called in the order they signed up, and then additional speakers would be invited at the
end of the list. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes
and to approach the lectern when called and state their name and address. Chair Tisdale
asked that if any speaker had documentation or reference materials for the Board to give
those materials to the Board staff prior to speaking.
Christopher Zvolenek, Arvada, through a sign language interpreter stated that he was at
the Board meeting to bring concerns to the Board regarding a bus accident that happened
on March 22, 2018. He stated that the operator was reckless resulting in his being injured.
Mr. Zvolenek explained that the operator was distracted and had to brake at the last
minute at a red light where he was then struck by the bus. He added that there had been a
communication barrier since the incident with the RTD Risk Management department. Mr.
Zvolenek explained that the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) stated that reasonable
accommodations must be made and that the Department of Justice stated that agencies
such as RTD had a responsibility to respond. He added that he had provided a copy of all
of the documentation regarding the incident, that RTD should take accountability and bring
the issue to resolution, and that he hoped for a response from RTD Risk Management.
Diane Bomar, Denver, diane.bomar@comcast.net, requested that members of the Board
contact her regarding the issue that she would be unable to address in three minutes. She
explained that she had 40 years of experience volunteering with paratransit organizations,
along with professional experience in software engineering and user interface design, and
she personally had used adaptive equipment specifically for the visually impaired. She
stated and that she had served on the paratransit advisory committee for RTD for the past
four years. Ms. Bomar commended RTD staff and the RTD paratransit staff for their
commitment to doing the right thing and their sense of equality. She added that she had
only good things to say about Larry Buter, RTD Paratransit Manager. Ms. Bomar explained
that she had concerns regarding the recently signed contract with RouteMatch, a
scheduling software vendor for paratransit, because the software did not have access for
the visually impaired.
Jeff Su, Lakewood, explained the he was the Executive Director of Mile High Connects, a
broad partnership of organizations from the private, public, and nonprofit sectors that
commit to increasing access to housing choices, good jobs, quality schools, and essential
services via public transit. He stated that he had attended the Pass Program Working
Group (PPWG) meetings and that it was a consensus among the PPWG to invest in a lowincome pass and a youth pass. Mr. Su stated that he wanted to correct a public narrative
that said that the PPWG had recommended a fare increase to offset the potential revenue

loss of a low-income and youth pass program and that approach was not discussed or
recommended by the PPWG. He added that would be seen in the written PPWG
recommendations. Mr. Su requested that the RTD Board and staff take a problem solving
approach during the examination and implementation of the PPWG recommendations.
Kristen Siedel, Denver, expressed concerns on behalf of the Denver Women’s
Collaborative over the recent press release regarding the PPWG. She stated that the Board
of Directors were elected to operate a public transportation system and to represent the
public. Ms. Siedel stated that passes such as the proposed low-income and youth pass
would serve the variety of people that rely on public transportation. She added that the
low income pass assists organizations in providing services to help women and families
better their lives. Ms. Siedel requested that the Board serve the public that they were
elected to represent.
Gary Van Dorn, Denver, reported that the braille signage at Civic Center Plaza had been
corrected and installed. He added that in the future he hoped RTD would work with the
disability community regarding signage. Mr. Van Dorn stated that an issue had been
identified with the Call-n-Ride service. He explained that customers could make a
reservation but could not change it. He said the Job Access With Speech (JAWS) screen
reader was difficult to use with Smart Card Services and the Voiceover screen reader did
not work at all. Mr. Van Dorn stated he would be forwarding information regarding the
issue in writing to the Board and General Manager Genova.
Lindsey Fietz, Denver, on behalf of The Gathering Place, stated that there were many
organizations concerned about the next steps in the PPWG Process and that the Board and
staff take into consideration the PPWG recommendations. She added that the time and the
care that went into the recommendations from the PPWG was impressive and she hoped
the Board would take the recommendations seriously. Ms. Fietz stated that The Gathering
Place endorsed the PPWG recommendations and encouraged the Board to consider raising
the pass low income discounted price to 50% off the regular priced fare.
Matt Samelson, Denver, on behalf of the Donnell Kay Foundation, which works on K-12
public policy issues in Colorado, specifically on improving transportation mobility for youth
stated that a youth pass would provide many benefits to youth, such as getting to school,
libraries, and employment. He encouraged the staff to reach out to the wealth of
knowledge across the district and agencies that had youth pass programs to assist in
implementing a positive program for youth.
Stacy Johns, Denver, stated that as a PPWG attendee she was excited about RTD
implementing a program for youth that would assist making Denver Public School (DPS) a
choice school system. She added that that she encouraged RTD to work with the city and

DPS to move the pass program forward. Ms. Johns asked the Board and the staff to listen
to the students and to involve the public in the decision pass program making process.
She added that the public’s eyes were on the RTD Board and the public trusts that the
Board would listen to the needs of the public.
Phoebe Amoco, Denver, stated that she was a 9th grader, that she considered attending
school far from her home in order to obtain a better education, and that her only means of
transportation would be a RTD bus, and that cost prohibited her from attending. She
added that many students did not receive the education they wanted or needed due to
transportation issues. Ms. Amoco stated that reducing the amount of money students use
for transportation would be beneficial and hoped that all students would have access to
RTD buses. She asked the Board to support the recommendations from the PPWG.
Jessica Aggray, Denver, stated that transportation issues limited students’ ability to
participate in the DPS SchoolChoice process and attend the school that best matched their
needs. She encouraged the Board to support students and youth in transit equity.
Jennifer Aggray, Denver, stated that if all students had access to RTD passes that she and
other students would be able to apply through the DPS SchoolChoice program to attend
better schools. She asked the Board to vote in support of the recommended youth pass
program.
Jenee Donelson, Denver, stated that, as the Transit Organizer for 9to5 Colorado and a
leader of the Rock Mountain Bus Riders Union, she worked to provide equitable change in
the transit system. She thanked the members of the PPWG who came together to
revitalize a failing fare structure. Ms. Donelson explained that the PPWG was asked to
estimate costs without full knowledge of RTD budget and to remain revenue neutral an
incredibly stressful undertaking while juggling the public’s money. She added that Heather
McKillop, RTD CFO, attended the last meeting, which gave the meeting a non-neutral
atmosphere. Ms. Donelson stated the PPWG recommended implementing a low-income
pass at a 40% discount. She urged RTD staff and the Board to implement the low-income
pass at a 50% discount. Ms. Donelson stated that a 40% discount would not benefit any
low-income recipient if fares continue to increase past affordability. She stated that a
discount was not a hand out and that the people that the Board members represent need
an income-based bus pass at a 50% discount. Ms. Donelson said that the public outcry
was prevalent at every RTD Board meeting and urged the Board to approve the lowincome pass.
Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Denver, stated that she worked for 9to5 Colorado as the Housing
Organizer and was there to read testimony from Reagan Bird. She read the letter that
stated that Ms. Bird was a transit-dependent rider for over 15 years, was a former

candidate for the RTD Board, and would be a candidate again in 2020. She added that she
was a candidate because RTD failed to serve low-income riders. Ms. Chiriboga-Flor stated
that Ms. Bird was concerned that RTD was considering a fare increase and urged the
Board to approve a low-income pass at a 50% discount.
Felipe Vieyra, Denver, stated that he worked with Together Colorado and would share
testimony from Ben Chavez. He stated that Mr. Chavez was the coordinator for a reentry
program for justice-impacted youth aged 18–24 that assisted with employment, training
programs, education recovery, and GED or high school diploma programs. He added that
the program had limited resources for transportation due to the purchase cap on non-profit
organizations. The testimony stated that the program needed income-based passes
because most clients were transit dependent and urged the Board to approve the income
based pass program recommended by the PPWG.
Chair Tisdale thanked all those who participated.

VII.

Committee Reports
Chair Tisdale stated that the committee minutes were included in the Board packet and
asked if there were any other questions.
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Chair Tisdale asked Committee Chair Walker if he had any comments regarding the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
Director Walker stated that a draft schedule would be sent out for comments.

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 27, 2018
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting minutes of February 27,
2018.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker) and 0
against. Director Catlin abstained. Directors
Deadwyler, Hoy, and Williams were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [11 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker
Catlin
Deadwyler, Hoy, Williams

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously

X.

Chair's Report
Chair Tisdale stated he would share a summary of the most pertinent events on the
horizon, as well as other items the Board members should be made aware. Chair Tisdale
provided the following highlights:




Directors Anderson, Folska, Solano, Walker and the Chair were all in Washington,
D.C. the previous week for the American Public Transportation Authority (APTA)
Legislative Conference, which provided an opportunity for Directors and members
of Senior Leadership Team to meet with members of our Colorado delegation in
order to provide an update to legislators and their staff, to meet with committee
staff of crucial committees, and to meet in person with the leadership of the
Department of Transportation, particularly K. Jane Williams, Acting Administrator
of Federal Transportation Authority (FTA). Chair Tisdale stated that the Directors
and staff requested that the Omnibus Bill include $63 million for the last installment
of Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) and for the refund of $26 million from the
credit risk premium on borrowed funds that RTD had paid back 21 years ahead of
schedule.
Monday, March 26: Directors Solano and Folska kicked off the telephone town hall
series. Chair Tisdale explained that each of the Directors, working with CRL
Associates, would participate in a collaborative town hall session in which more
than 30,000 constituents in each Director District would have the opportunity to
provide feedback on RTD’s services. He added that the scheduled dates and times
were posted on the RTD website.





XI.

Wednesday, March 28: Chair Tisdale stated that he and the RTD General Manager
Dave Genova would attend the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
Commissioners’ Deliberation Meeting regarding the RTD appeal and the hearing held
the previous month.
Chair Tisdale stated that the Board members were provided a copy of an undated
letter from two dozen members of the Colorado House of Representatives regarding
a request that the RTD Board provide an update on the timing and direction of the
PPWG’s recommendations. He asked for the Board’s consent to respond to the
letter by stating that the PPWG had submitted twelve recommendations to RTD
Senior Leadership Team (SLT) for evaluation, that the SLT had started the
evaluation, and that the results would be presented to the Board when completed.
He added that after the evaluation was presented that the Board would comment
on the PPWG recommendations. Chair Tisdale explained that a response before the
SLT evaluation and recommendation would subvert the process and jeopardize the
years’ worth of work by the PPWG. He added that he would explain that, with the
Board’s consent, RTD would commit to keeping the representatives informed of the
progress. Chair Tisdale stated that, unless there was objection, the discussed
response would be issued to the representatives

General Manager's Report
Chair Tisdale asked General Manager Genova to share his report.
General Manager Genova highlighted the following:
 FTA Acting Administrator, K. Jane Williams, visited to tour the University of
Colorado A Line, several other projects, and participated in a round table.
 APTA Legislative Conference was productive and beneficial to RTD with the
meetings with the House and Senate Committee.
 General Manager Genova presented at the APTA National Press Conference
conveying the RTD story of FasTracks, P3s, Denver Union Station, the benefits of
transit including mobility and economic development, and the continued need for
federal funding to address growth and to keep U.S. cities moving, viable, healthy
and competitive.
 RTD provided an update to the FTA on the Eagle Project, especially the schedule on
the G Line.
 The Omnibus Funding Bill had been signed and the request that RTD had made for
the remainder of the Eagle Full Funding Grant was included and there was also
some language included to address how to pay back the credit risk premium.
 The South East Rail Extension tie in, while it impacted the lines, was a success
with a huge the amount of work completed in 9 days. General Manager Genova
thanked all of the municipalities and agencies involved that made the challenges of
shut down run smoothly.



Wednesday, March 28, 2018, the CPUC deliberation meeting would be held that
RTD would attend to listen and observe, and would report to the Board the
outcome of the meeting.

Director Sisk stated that the Board appreciated and listened to the public comments,
however, he would never condone public comments to disparage or take our staff to task.
He added that he respected Heather McKillop, Chief Finance Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance, for all the work she has done for RTD and said she was a valuable
member of the staff. Director Sisk stated that the public should address the directors as
elected officials not the RTD staff that worked tirelessly and considered all pieces for the
agency.
Director Menten asked what the responses were from the federal aide and elected
representatives regarding the $27 million credit risk premium.
General Manager Genova explained that staff members on committees, such as Senate
Banking and House Transportation and Infrastructure, are supportive and in agreement that
RTD had paid back the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan and
that the collateral needed and should be paid back. He added that the committees are
working on the mechanisms to create a process to return those funds.
Chair Tisdale stated that each member of the RTD delegation, the Senators and the
Congressmen, had pledged to work to with RTD to resolve the RRIF loan issue.

XII.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Tisdale stated that there were two items on the consent agenda and suggested that
if there were any questions or need for discussion of an agenda item, a Director should
request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda for discussion under
recommended Action. Seeing none, he asked for a motion to approve items A and B.

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent
agenda.

Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker) and 0
against. Director Catlin abstained. Directors
Deadwyler, Hoy, and Williams were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

PASSED [11 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker
Catlin
Deadwyler, Hoy, Williams

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.

Contracts for Legal Services

It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate
and execute contracts, including contract amendments, to engage, or continue to engage,
outside legal counsel to represent RTD for a total amount not to exceed $8.5 million.
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and GM
Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
B.

Resolution to join Colorado Statewide Investment Pool

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts Resolution ___ for RTD to join the Colorado Statewide
Investment Pool (CSIP), a local government investment pool (LGIP).
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and GM
Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.

XIII.

Recommended Action
C.

May 2018 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2018 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $153,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

The Recommended Action proposed falls in line with the following GM Goals:
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the May 2018 Service Changes.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker) and 0
against. Director Catlin abstained. Directors
Deadwyler, Hoy and Williams were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

PASSED [11 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker
Peggy Catlin
Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Kate Williams

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
D.

Approval of the 2018-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a new three (3) year RTD and ATU
Local 1001 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) effective March 1, 2018 – February
28, 2021 for all represented RTD employees.
This action support Task Goal #1, Fiscal Sustainability and Task Goal #2, Workforce and
Human Capital.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to approve the
2018-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten stated that she would be a no vote because
of the included pension agreement and that she did not feel
that the employees had not been asked to contribute enough
to the pension program. She added that there are many
employers that did not provide a pension and employees
should be required to contribute more to a pension. Director
Menten stated that it would take decades to fund the pension
program and that she would not support the agreement.
Director Lubow stated that she would be a yes vote because
RTD needed to make an attractive benefit and payroll package
in order to hire more employees and maintain service.
Director Solano stated that 89% of the union agreed and
voted to ratify the agreement. He added that senior leadership
did an extraordinary job creating the agreement and that he
would be a yes vote.
Chair Tisdale congratulated the team especially Mike Meader,
Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security and Asset Management, for all the hard work to
reach an agreement.
Mihalik stated he would be a no vote because without
incrementally addressing the pension issue in three years
pension plan would be that much more difficult to implement.
Anderson stated that she though it was a good package and
appreciated the staff and the union for working together to
negotiate the agreement. She added that she would be an
absolute yes vote.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that she would be a yes vote.
She added that she valued RTD employees for their hard work.
Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that RTD asked employees to do
work for the district that was above and beyond what many
companies request especially the ongoing mandating of
overtime. She added that it was time for the Board to support
the employees.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker), and 2 opposed (Menten,
Mihalik). Director Catlin abstained. Directors
Deadwyler, Hoy, and Williams were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

PASSED [9 TO 2 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Menten, Mihalik
Catlin
Deadwyler, Hoy, Williams

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.

XIV. Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XV.

Old Business
Director Anderson seconded Director Sisk comments regarding RTD employees. She stated
that RTD had great system and was evident after riding trains in Washington, D.C.
Director Menten asked for the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) document to be
distributed.
General Manager Genova stated that he would have CBA sent to the Board.
Director Walker echoed Director Sisk and stated that he had been heartened by the
conversations with committee staff in Washington, D.C. because of the pro transit
sentiment and desire to have RTD maintain and expand. He shared that he had been
elected to the APTA Board to fill a vacancy for the remainder of the term.
Chair Tisdale congratulated Director Walker on his appointment to the APTA Board. He
thanked the all directors that attended the APTA conference and working with all the
committees for RTD support and funding.
Director Broom requested a report that staff provide the actuarial of the pension plan that
would include recommendations to bring the plan to full funding.

General Manager Genova stated that a full actuarial report would be distributed to the
Board after the final pension trust meetings.
Director Catlin informed the Board that she abstained from voting on any items discussed
at meetings prior to her appointment to the Board of Directors.

XVI. New Business
Director Sisk announced that Mayor Steve Hogan, City of Aurora, was fighting cancer and
offered prayers to him and his family.
Director Folska, Ph.D., thanked RTD staff and everyone who had made the Telephone
Town Hall a success.
Director Lubow asked staff to provide her with information and updates on three news
articles from the Streetsblog. She listed the titles of the articles for staff to address:
1.
Records Detail Blown Stops, Speeding and Other Issues on RTD's Commuter Rail
Lines
2.
Colorado Senate Could Pass Bill to Subsidize Highways, Snub Transit
3.
Transit Fares Surprisingly Well in House Spending Bill
Director Walker thanked the staff, especially the operators, for their hard work every day
and for running the special event services.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked staff to explain if the transportation bill had been amended to
include more funding for public transportation.
General Manager Genova stated that the Omnibus Bill was thousands of pages and that
Squire Patton Boggs would review the entire bill and would provide a summary of items
that would be pertinent to RTD.

XVII. Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 7:13 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

