Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, July 12, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice-Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:39 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present
Present

7:38 PM
7:32 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

7:39 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Absent

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

7:39 PM
7:34 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:38 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:41 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:39 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

7:39 PM
7:38 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:37 PM

Director Hoy was absent. Director Bagley left before the meeting began and Director
Anderson participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Jesse Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn
Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, David Genova,
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Barbara McManus, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott
Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter

Public Present:

Aaron Epstein, Nadia Garas, Ann Herzenberg, Brandon Mattie, Scott
McCarey, Petro Ramos, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Dace West

Committee Vice-Chair Walker noted that Director Anderson was the Chair of the
Committee but as she was participating via phone he would be leading the meeting.

B. Recommended Actions

• Revised RTD Transit Service Policies & Standards
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the RTD Service Standards as revised July
2016, thereby adopting the updated policies and standards as included in
Attachment B.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the July 19, 2016 Board
Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
reminded the Board that staff presented the revised Transit
Service Policies and Standards at the last Operations and
Customer Service Committee Meeting. He reiterated that
while Service Standards have been in place for a number of
years, this action is to formalize the process through the
Transit Service Policies and Standards document. He
indicated the changes had been sent to RTD’s various
stakeholders and discussed with any interested parties.
Bruce Abel noted that Committee Vice-Chair Walker did reach
out to him to ask for clarification on item 2.4.4 – SeniorRide
and Senior Shopper. The language reads: “A minimum of 10

passengers per trip is required. Scheduled events that do not
generate reservations of at least 2 groups of 10 may not be
rescheduled for the next 12 months.” Bruce Abel explained
the intent behind this language was that it be provided as
guidance rather than prescriptive. The intent is that staff
cannot schedule trips but may elect to do so depending on
circumstances.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern about this language.
She asked staff if there was a way to make it clearer because
interpretations can change as time goes on. Bruce Abel said if
it was agreeable to the Board, staff would work on clarifying
this item prior to the Board Meeting on July 19. The Board
unanimously supported the suggestion.
Director Francone asked for confirmation that discussions
about the changes to the Transit Service Policies and
Standards document had taken place with Jefferson County.
Jeff Becker, Senior Manager of Service Development,
explained that the document had been sent to Jefferson
County but they did not attend any meetings or provide any
feedback.
Director Francone asked if there were any significant changes
to section 12 that outlines the Service Change process or if
this is just articulating what already occurs. Bruce Abel stated
it is just putting into writing what has been the practice for
quite some time.
Director Francone asked if she was correct that a minimum
warrant could be considered demand as it related to the
criteria for shelters. Bruce Abel explained a good way to look
at it is determining at what point a shelter is warranted. He
said that is where the term comes from.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for revising the
Transit Service Policies and Standards as having an updated
policy helps RTD better work with our communities as our
service continues to evolve.
Director Folska inquired as to the minimum warrant required
for a shelter to be installed. Jeff Becker stated it was 40
boardings per day at a stop. He said there could be other
factors taken into consideration such as if the stop was in
front of an assisted living community. Bruce Abel stressed
that this is guidance for staff but not the final determination.

He stated the budget would always be the final guidance;
however, staff can still be creative in coming up with solutions
to best serve the community.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Kent Bagley, Larry Hoy
Committee Vice-Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Proposed Fall 2016 Service Change
Bruce Abel commented that service changes usually take place three times a
year but due to the openings this fall the service changes are not necessarily
sticking to the normal schedule. He said the most notable service change
would be the opening of the G Line and all the associated new bus feeder
service. He indicated there was no date out yet as staff continues to work
with Denver Transit Partners. This is the service change information staff
will be taking out to the public for comment over the next few months. He
reminded the Board that the G Line service plan was approved some months
ago. This just outlines the additional changes that will take place as part of
that runboard.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, shared that the
proposal contains mainly system maintenance and small incremental
increases in service outside of the recommendations for the G Line. He
pointed out that this proposal included the grant funded Route 62 again,
which was previously postponed due to roadway construction issues. He
explained it was brought back into this proposal with changed language to
note that the route would be implemented once the roadway was complete.
Director Francone thanked staff for the changes to the 15 and 15L as well
as the C Line. She said having earlier service on the C Line will be a huge
help in allowing her constituents to catch early morning flights. She
complemented the entire service planning and light/commuter rail teams.
She shared she has ridden from her home in Littleton to DIA several times
and it has been nothing but a success. She has heard nothing but good
things from her constituents.
Director Sisk thanked staff for the additional Flatiron Flyer service that was
being added as part of the proposal. He thinks they have shown a great
reaction in terms of listening to the constituents.

Committee Vice-Chair Walker agreed with Director Francone that the earlier
C Line service will really help his constituents catch their early morning
flights.

 Request for Lafayette Fare Buy-Up (no back up)
Bruce Abel shared that in late May staff met with the Mayor of Lafayette
and Boulder County Commissioners regarding a grant application they were
submitting to support a fare buy up demonstration for all riders that board at
the Lafayette Park-n-Ride for a period of two months. He said the goal of
the demonstration was to evaluate the induced demand that would result
from free fares. In June, Lafayette and Boulder County were advised that
the grant application was approved for 2017 funding during the high ozone
days. Bruce Abel stated since those discussions Lafayette and Boulder
County have approached RTD about beginning the demonstration the Fall of
2016 but staff is reluctant given the number of things already happening.
He said staff would continue to have conversations with Lafayette and
Boulder County.
Director Menten asked if this meant fare would only be free on a day when a
high ozone alert had been issued. Bruce Abel explained the grant was
submitted for use during the spring/summer high ozone period. The fare
would be free for a full two month demonstration period.
Director Lubow stated she supports the fare buy-up on the part of Lafayette
and Boulder County just as she supports the Longmont fare buy-up program.
She thinks increased transit use is wonderful, especially if it does not
negatively impact RTD.
Chair Tobiassen wondered what would happen if everyone from Boulder
County decided to go to Lafayette to take the bus down to Denver Union
Station. Bruce Abel explained something like a fare buy-up would require an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) that addresses such things as who pays
for increased demand, is there adequate rolling stock, etc. He said all of
those things would still need to be addressed with Lafayette and Boulder
County in an IGA.
Director Sisk said that he too was supportive of this idea. He thinks it is an
exellent opportunity to increase ridership while having Boulder County and
Lafayette pay not just for current fare box revenue but actual ridership.
Director Folska agrees this is an excellent idea. It does not just cover the
Route L but the Hop, Skip, Jump and everything in between.

 "Meet in the Streets" Update (no back up)
Bruce Abel reminded the Board that the Meet in the Streets events have
begun. He stated an email from the Downtown Denver Partnership was
forwarded to all Directors inviting them to several walking tours that will be
taking place to observe the activation activities that are happening.
Director Folska asked staff to make sure that the cost of marketing,
activation activities, etc. compared to actual sales and use tax revenue is
taken into consideration as staff completes their analysis of the events. She
also wonders what long-term obligations RTD would have to continue to
repave the mall if the 16th Street Mall Shuttles were permanently relocated.
Bruce Abel stated the impact on sales and use tax revenue during the
activation events will be part of the evaluation criteria. He said he is not
sure how the long-term maintenance of the mall might look in the future but
moving the Shuttles could have an impact on those conversations.
Director Menten asked if there has been a substantial increase in the number
of tickets or arrests that have been made on the Mall since increased
enforcement has begun. General Manager Genova shared that in his own
personal experiences the appearance and activities have improved from his
perspective. He said that specific numbers would need to be requested from
the Denver Police Department.

 University of Colorado A-Line Update (no back up)
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, shared that
after the July 4th Holiday weekend average weekday ridership is at 17,300,
which is very successful for the start of a new corridor. He said on-time
performance for Week 11 saw good improvements at 92%. He recognized
this is not quite the level expected but it is moving in the right direction.
Overall on-time performance is still hovering just under 90%.
Terry Emmons commented that his team was just informed that DTP
successfully completed testing of the wireless crossing improvements on
non-revenue trains so they will begin upgrading the software in the revenue
trains. He said this should lead to significant improvement on the warning
times for the at-grade crossings.
General Manager Genova recognized Aaron Epstein, Ann Herzenberg and
Nadia Garas from Denver Transit Partners (DTP) who were all in attendance
this evening.
Director Folska shared that she loved the University of Colorado A Line train.
She said it is like the party train as people riding are just so fun and lively.
She stated she seems to make new friends every time she gets on. Director
Folska recognized the snafus that have occurred were bad but when putting
them into comparison with how frequently the train runs with no issues she

thinks DTP and RTD are doing a wonderful job. She cannot wait for the B
and G Lines to come online.
Director Francone agreed with Director Folska. She commented that
recently she rode the University of Colorado A Line with Directors Archuleta
and Solano and it is true that you do make new friends. She said it has a
different vibe than the light rail services. She thanked Terry Emmons for his
quick response in making repairs to a damaged sign at the Mineral Station.
She asked if staff could provide a week-to-week overview of the ridership
and on-time performance as it is very helpful for her when she receives
questions out in the community.
Director Deadwyler noted the University of Colorado A Line runs through her
District and initially she was bombarded with complaints; however, she
continued to encourage people to use the service and now they love it. She
said she does still hear complaints that the train is making people late to
work so she hopes the on-time performance can improve to above 90%
soon.
Director Solano commented that on the trip referenced by Director Francone
the conductor was not announcing the stops as the train left DIA. He asked
staff to look into this as it can be a detriment to our visually impaired riders.
Chair Tobiassen shared that he asked General Manager Genova to have staff
put together a technical briefing on how the system works for the University
of Colorado A Line to cover things like Positive Train Control. He said he
would be working with staff to get a time on the schedule to cover this for
any Director that would be interested.
General Manager Genova indicated he wanted to recognize a group that is
not talked about much and that is the University of Colorado A Line Security
Officers. He noted they are providing more than just security as they are
also the second crew member as required by the Federal Railroad
Administration. He stated they have been working very hard and are really
great ambassadors for our service. He shared he often receives
compliments about their courtesy and ability to answer questions.
Committee Vice-Chair Walker said he also receives a lot of compliments for
the Security Officers.

D. Other Matters
Director Anderson noted this has been not only a particularly bad week for police
officers but for transit security officers (TSOs) as well. She asked staff to extend
RTD’s condolences to the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) Association for the loss
of their transit security officer. She also wants to make sure RTD’s TSO’s know
how much the Board appreciates the protection they provide. General Manager

Genova shared that he had reached out to the DART General Manager as well as
their Transit Police Chief. He said an account had been set up for the officers
family where people could make contributions if they are so inclined. He said RTD
would be following up with something else as well to let them know we continue
to think about them as an entire agency.
Director Francone thanked Don Young, Senior Manager of Treasury, for the quick
turnaround time on fixing the jammed Ticket Vending Machine at the Downtown
Littleton Station over the weekend.
Director Menten asked for a refresher as to how we were alerting riders with
strollers that they needed to be collapsed prior to boarding. Bruce Abel explained
that on the bus side passengers are notified via an automatic stop announcement
prior to boarding that their strollers much be collapsed. He said this is a result of
the settlement agreement that was reach with the Colorado Cross Disability
Coalition. He noted one continual area that needs to be balanced is if an individual
boards with an unfolded stroller but has a disability or the child has a disability.
That is an exception to the rule. Terry Emmons explained that if someone is in the
reserved area with a stroller and a wheelchair needs to board the operator is
instructed to ask the passenger to move or collapse the stroller; however, not all
passengers comply. Director Menten indicated she was hearing this was an issue
on the W Line and asked to speak with Terry Emmons offline.
Committee Vice-Chair Walker expressed his gratitude for the people on the front
line, the operators and TSOs. He said they do a fantastic job of interacting with
the customers and keeping the peace. He asked staff to pass along his thanks.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 9, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice-Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

