Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

October 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
October 9, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Vice Chair James, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Gore, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen,
and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Deadwyler was absent

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, L. Skip Brown, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Mark
Carlen, John Elias, Eric Miller, Eric Farrington

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Dr. William Gross, Kathy Maher, Brett Painter, Cheryl
Wallace
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 7:38 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 2013 Salaried Benefit Plans (Howerter/Sprague)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board approves the 2013 plan year salaried employee insured benefits budget
and authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement with the
Insurance Carriers.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the October 23
Board meeting.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 2 of 6

Discussion:

Terry Howerter noted that a memo with a cost comparison was
provided to the Board in their packets.
Director Tayer recognized the effort that was put in getting this
done. He believes it is very impressive that we have been able to
keep our rates so low. Terry Howerter recognized what a good job
the Human Resources department has done.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Deadwyler was absent.
Committee Chair James declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Proposed 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement (Howerter)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accepts the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy
Statement.
Terry Howerter explained that the staff is proposing minor changes to the Fiscal
Policy that was adopted earlier this year. This will be for the 2013 year to
create an operating fund balance similar to the Base System for FasTracks
operation. He said that a red-line version of the Policy is included in the Board
packet.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to
move this item to the October 23
Board meeting.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy asked if this would have any impact on construction.
Terry Howerter explained that it is for operations only. With the
West corridor coming online staff felt that it would be good to
have the same policy as the Base System.
Director O’Boyle recognized the work in revising the policy and
thanked the CFO and the staff.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 3 of 6

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
McMullen, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Deadwyler was absent.
Committee Chair James declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.

II.

Updates
 2013 Budget Update (Howerter/Scarpino)
Terry Howerter explained that in preparation to ask the Board to adopt the 2013
budget next month, staff wanted to provide an update of the changes that have
been made to the 2013 Requested Budget since the Study Session. Jannette
Scarpino stated that earlier in the year the 6 year strategic budget plan was
presented to the board. She shared that this is the guidance for the 2013
Requested Budget. Jannette said that as the Board may recall, staff have
presented the 2013 assumptions and key elements as well as a first draft at
prior meetings.
Jannette explained that the Banker Report starting on page 15 through page 20
has been updated. She reviewed the Power Point presentation on the 2013
Requested Budget with the Board.
Jannette stated that in the budget assumption we are carrying an increase to
sales/use tax based on the revised CU-Leeds September forecast. She explained
that staff decided to move forward with diesel fuel cost estimated at $3.53 per
gallon which is the float or spot price.
Jannette shared that the FasTracks Operations or West Line operating expenses
have been revised down by $600,000. She highlighted that the unrestricted
year-end fund balance is projected at $6.5 million on the Base side up from $4.0
million on the SBP. On a combined basis FasTracks and Base are projecting an
unrestricted year-end fund balance of $7.8 million.
She stated that the challenges are the same. It is always a challenge to find the
right opportunity to lock at a favorable rate for diesel fuel, the purchased
transportation contract rates are an on-going challenge, and there is difficulty
projecting the West Line start-up operating costs.
Jannette pointed out to the Board the positive increases over the SBP. On the
2013 requested budget, the sales/use tax shows a favorable increase over the
SBP of $3 million. The grant revenue also shows favorable increase of $11.5
million. Fuel adjustment represents a $5 million increase over the SBP. Interest
Income/Expense is about $1 million, and the unrestricted year-end balance
shows a $2.5 million increase over the approved SBP. Jannette stated that the
Rubber Tire Service/FasTracks service remains unchanged from the SBP at

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 4 of 6

$16.1 million. Jannette mentioned that the sales/use tax revenue for the Base
System is forecasted to increase 4.2% over 2012.
She highlighted that for the first time we are showing fare revenue for
FasTracks. This is revenue of $3.2 million from the West Line opening in 2013.
Jannette explained that for the system operating uses, if we exclude interest
expenses, the operating expenses are showing a 2.4% increase over the 2012
amended budget which is right in line of the SBP where we used an increase of
2.9%. She explained that a fuel adjustment of $4.4 million over the 2012
amended based on $3.53 diesel prices is included.
Jannette stated that FasTracks uses combine both FasTracks projects which are
the construction activities and the FasTracks operations which is the West Line.
She explained that this makes up the vast majority of our capital uses.
She explained that we do not have the capital carried forward yet. Staff has
made estimates for new capital in 2013 and the carry forward number will be
available for the November recommended budget. She shared that FasTracks
makes up the vast majority of our capital uses.
Jannette stated the 2013 final recommended budget will be presented to the
Finance Committee on November 20 to move forward to the Board for the
November 27 Board meeting. There will be a public hearing and request of
Board adoption of the 2013 budget at that Board meeting.
Chair Kemp expressed concern about the fuel cost due to the uncertainty. He
knows there is no policy about this, but he would like to give the staff some
leeway so if an opportunity arise staff does not have to wait a week to come
back to the Board to get the number approved.
Director James asked if staff already had the ability to agree to a lock-in price.
Bruce Abel explained that staff monitors fuel costs on a periodic basis, but the
real issue is the prevailing price plus the differential. He stated that staff has
been working with Suncor for at least six to eight months about getting a
proposed differential that will make sense for RTD. Bruce said that we are in the
process of putting an RFP out to see if there are other vendors that would give
us a differential that will make sense for us. He explained that historically we
give the supplier a range and say if it gets within that range, lock us. At that
point staff would come to the Board and advisee the Board of the action taken.
Jannette Scarpino informed the Board that responses are due October 25th,
2012.
Director James commented that he has been hearing that gas prices are
forecasted to go back down. He asked if diesel prices would track the same
way. Terry Howerter said that you would expect the prices to go down but he
would not count on that trend. He expressed that he is excited to see what type
of proposals come back from the RFP. He shared that we did this last year and

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 5 of 6

Suncor stepped up and we locked in at $2.73 per gallon, which was very
favorable at that point in time.
Terry Howerter stated if any of the Board would like to review the 2013
Requested Budget in more depth staff would be happy to review at any time.


August 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report (Howerter/MacLeod)
Doug MacLeod reviewed the Monthly Financial Status Report beginning on page
39 of the Board packet. He stated there is only one red box in the Dashboard.
He explained this was due to the fact that the mall shuttle passenger count is
down significantly. He stated that ridership is up 1.7% excluding the mall
shuttle for the month and 3.9% year-to-date through August. Doug expressed
that this is surprising since in January we cut 7-8% of the service and even with
that cut we are still up quite a bit which is a very strong showing. Doug
MacLeod explained that the increase seen in August is due to students returning
to school. He stated we are below budget because we projected an increase in
ridership in all areas, including the mall shuttle.
Doug highlighted that fare revenue is up 4% over last August or about
$390,000 and $3.6 million year-to-date or 5%. He stated this is also remarkable
considering we cut back on some of the services being provided. Approximately
$2.8 million of the $3.6 million is due to increase passenger counts, the rest is
due to rates and shifting between rail and bus.
Doug MacLeod stated on the sales and use tax we saw an increase of 5.6% or
$2 million. He explained that this is softer than we have seen in the prior
months. The trend shows an 8% increase almost every month with the
exception of March at 4.5% but August is particularly low too. He said we are
still up but there is some concern going into the remainder of the year.
Doug mentioned that cash and cash equivalents for the Base System is
$48,602,000. He shared that we have almost two months of cash for operating
expenses for the base system. He stated that we expect to see that grow to
about $60 million by year end, which is similar to last year end. He explained
the reason for this is that we will start drawing down some more projects funds
as projects are completed; any increase in cash also increases the unrestricted
fund balance.
Doug pointed out that on the FasTracks side, the cash reserved for Eagle P3
payment, $65,447,000, represents the amount that we would owe them
through August. Based on the contract we pay them in January, which means
that total will be around $130 million by the time we make the payment.
Director Hoy asked if the number of passengers on the mall shuttle decreases,
does the cost go down also. Terry Howerter responded that the mall bus is one
of the most efficient services as a cost of about $0.66 per rider. He explained
that there is no benefit for more passengers; the only benefit would be if we
reduce the services.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on October 9, 2012
Page 6 of 6

III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters presented.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – November 20, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:04 p.m.

