1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Performance Committee
Wednesday, July 13, 2022
REMOTE MEETING
1:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 867 7594 4288#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Performance Committee
Chaired by Vice Chair Dishell

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Discussion Item

• Evaluating Board Performance
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date: Wednesday, September 14, 2022
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
July 13, 2022

Evaluating Board Performance

REPRESENTATIVE
Committee Vice Chair Dishell
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
At the June 1, 2022 Performance Committee meeting, the committee had a preliminary discussion of
the concept of evaluating the RTD Board of Directors performance and effectiveness. Any Board
performance evaluation framework would be conducted separately from the General Manager and CEO’s
annual performance evaluation.
DISCUSSION
Included for review and discussion are the following articles:
• Sonnenfeld, J. A. (2014, August 1). What makes Great Boards Great. Harvard Business Review.
Retrieved from https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great
• Larcker, D., Griffin, T., Tayan, B., & Miles, S. (2016, November 1). 2016 Survey: Board of
Director Evaluation and Effectiveness. Stanford Graduate School of Business. Retrieved from
https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/faculty-research/publications/2016-survey-board-directorevaluation-effectiveness
• Larcker, D., Griffin, T., Tayan, B., & Miles, S. (2017, March 1). How Boards Should Evaluate
Their Own Performance. Harvard Business Review. Retrieved from https://hbr.org/2017/03/howboards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact at this time.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

What Makes Great Boards Great (PDF)

•

Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (PDF)

•

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Operations Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

What Makes Great Boards Great

1 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.a

Boards

What Makes Great Boards
Great
by Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld
From the Magazine (September 2002)

In the wake of the meltdowns of such once great companies as
Adelphia, Enron, Tyco, and WorldCom, enormous attention has
been focused on the companies’ boards. Were the directors asleep
at the wheel? In cahoots with corrupt management teams? Simply
incompetent? It seems inconceivable that business disasters of
such magnitude could happen without gross or even criminal
negligence on the part of board members. And yet a close
examination of those boards reveals no broad pattern of
incompetence or corruption. In fact, the boards followed most of
the accepted standards for board operations: Members showed up
for meetings; they had lots of personal money invested in the
company; audit committees, compensation committees, and
codes of ethics were in place; the boards weren’t too small, too
big, too old, or too young. Finally, while some companies have
had problems with director independence because of the number
of insiders on their boards, this was not true of all the failed
boards, and board makeup was generally the same for companies
with failed boards and those with well-managed ones.

Packet Pg. 5
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

2 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

In other words, they passed the tests that would normally be

1.C.1.a

applied to ascertain whether a board of directors was likely to do a
good job. And that’s precisely what’s so scary about these events.
Viewing the breakdowns through the lens of my 25 years of
experience studying board performance and CEO leadership leads
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

me to one conclusion: It’s time for some fundamentally new
thinking about how corporate boards should operate and be
evaluated. We need to consider not only how we structure the
work of a board but also how we manage the social system a board
actually is. We’ll be ﬁghting the wrong war if we simply tighten
procedural rules for boards and ignore their more pressing need—
to be strong, high-functioning work groups whose members trust
and challenge one another and engage directly with senior
managers on critical issues facing corporations.

The Inadequacy of Conventional Wisdom
Over time, good-governance advocates have developed no
shortage of remedies for failures of governance. Most of these
remedies are structural: They’re concerned with rules,
procedures, composition of committees, and the like, and
together they’re supposed to produce vigilant, involved boards.
However, good and bad companies alike have already adopted
most of those practices. Let’s take a look at some of the most
common.
Regular Meeting Attendance.
Regular meeting attendance is considered a hallmark of the
conscientious director. It matters a lot and, still, as shareholder
activist Nell Minow comments, “Some big names on the boards…
barely show up due to other commitments, and when they show,
they’re not prepared.” Indeed, some WorldCom directors were on
more than ten boards, so how well prepared could they be?

Packet Pg. 6
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

3 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

Fortune’s 2001 list of the most-admired U.S. companies reveals no

1.C.1.a

diﬀerence in the attendance records of board members of the
most- and least-admired companies. Data from the Corporate
Library, a corporate governance Web site and database cofounded
by Minow, show the same “acceptable” attendance records at both
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

kinds of companies. Good attendance is important for individual
board members, but it alone doesn’t seem to have much impact
on whether companies are successful.
Equity Involvement.
Board members are assumed to be more vigilant if they hold big
chunks of the company’s stock—but data from the Corporate
Library don’t suggest that this measure by itself separates good
boards from bad, either. Several members of the board of GE,
Fortune’s most-admired corporation in 2001, had less than
$100,000 of equity, whereas all board members of the leastadmired companies held substantial equity stakes. Not only did
all but one of the Enron board members own impressive amounts
of equity in the company, but some were still buying as the shares
collapsed.
Board Member Skills.
Patrick McGurn of Institutional Shareholder Services, like other
expert observers, has frequently questioned the ﬁnancial literacy
of troubled companies’ audit committee members. It’s certainly
true that many board members have their jobs because they’re
famous, rich, well connected—anything but ﬁnancially literate.
But just as many board members have the training and smarts to
detect problems and somehow fail to do their jobs anyway. At the
time of their meltdowns, for example, Kmart had six current or
recent Fortune 500 CEOs on its board, and Warnaco had several
Packet Pg. 7

7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

4 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

prominent ﬁnanciers, a well-known retail analyst, and a top-tier

1.C.1.a

CEO; all those excellent credentials made little diﬀerence. On this
measure, again, we ﬁnd that Fortune’s most- and least-admired
companies alike had board members with the training and
experience to analyze complex ﬁnancial issues and to understand
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

what kinds of risks a company is taking on.
Despite Enron’s disastrously complex ﬁnancial schemes, no
corporation could have had more appropriate ﬁnancial
competencies and experience on its board. The list includes a
former Stanford dean who is an accounting professor, the former
CEO of an insurance company, the former CEO of an international
bank, a hedge fund manager, a prominent Asian ﬁnancier, and an
economist who is the former head of the U.S. government’s
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Yet members of this
board have claimed to have been confused by Enron’s ﬁnancial
transactions.
Board Member Age.
According to one governance expert, “Enron melted down
because it lacks independent directors and several are quite long
in the tooth.” His remarks reﬂect a general belief that boards
become less eﬀective as the average age of their members rises.
My research on executives over the past two decades has shown
that, to the contrary, age is often an asset, and this general ﬁnding
is supported by board data from the Corporate Library. Charles
Schwab, Cisco, and Home Depot all have had several board
members who are well into their sixties. Michael Dell (Dell
Computer placed tenth on Fortune’s 2001 list of most-admired
companies) told me that when he incorporated in 1987, as a 21year-old college dropout, he found it invaluable to have then 70year-old George Kozmetsky, Teledyne’s visionary founder and the

Packet Pg. 8
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

5 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

former dean of the McCombs School of Business in Austin, Texas,

1.C.1.a

serve on the board; Kozmetsky stayed for more than a decade.
The Past CEO’s Presence.

Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

The complicated reality is that sometimes a past CEO’s presence
is helpful and sometimes it’s not. In the years I served on and
even chaired commissions for the National Association of
Corporate Directors (NACD), some commissioners regularly
viliﬁed the “old dragons” who haunted successors by serving on
boards. In certain cases, this can be a problem; one can only
imagine board meetings at Warnaco, where deposed CEO Linda
Wachner voted her 9% of the company’s equity for several months
after her November 2001 termination. Alternately, a retired CEO
can play an invaluable internal role as a mentor, sounding board,
and link to critical outside parties. It’s hard to imagine anyone
arguing that Intel, Southwest Airlines, or Home Depot would be
better oﬀ if their legendary retired CEOs Andy Grove, Herb
Kelleher, or Bernie Marcus had just gone home to play golf.
Independence.
Good-governance advocates and stock exchange heavyweights
alike have argued that boards with too many insiders are less
clean and less accountable. Some argue that Tyco’s confusing
spiral of acquisitions and the apparent self-dealing of the CEO at
Adelphia Communications might have been less likely if their
boards hadn’t been dominated by insiders. Indeed, the New York
Stock Exchange’s Corporate Accountability and Standards
Committee recently proposed requiring that the majority of a
NYSE-listed corporation’s directors be independent—this in
response to the recent governance disasters. Governance reform
proposals are also being developed by such business groups as the
Packet Pg. 9
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

6 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

Conference Board and the Business Roundtable. Yet again, if you

1.C.1.a

judge the most- and least-admired companies on Fortune’s 2001
list against this standard, no meaningful distinction emerges.
Least-admired companies like LTV Steel, CKE Restaurants,
Kmart, Warnaco, Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, FederalAttachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

Mogul, and US Airways had only one or two inside directors on
their boards; Enron had only two. By contrast, at various times in
their histories, Home Depot had ﬁve insider directors on its 11person board, Intel had three on a nine-person board, and
Southwest Airlines had three on an eight-person board. Typically,
half of Microsoft’s board are insiders. Currently, three of Warren
Buﬀett’s seven Berkshire Hathaway board members have the
Buﬀett name, and another is his long-term vice chairman.
United Parcel Service has ranked high on Fortune’s list of mostadmired companies since the list was started, and half of the UPS
management committee is on its board. Three outside board
members have told me how well plugged-in they have felt over
the years because the inside members are very candid and well
informed. From what the outside directors have seen, none of the
insiders has ever been afraid to debate a point with the boss, the
CEO.
Board Size and Committees.
A host of other issues that good-governance advocates propose
turn out to be either not truly important or already in place at
both good and bad companies. Take board size. Small’s
considered good, big’s considered bad. But big boards exist at
some great and admired companies—GE, Wal-Mart, and Schwab
—along with some poorly performing companies like US Airways
and AT&T. At the same time, small boards are part of the
landscape at good companies like Berkshire Hathaway and

Packet Pg. 10
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

7 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

Microsoft and some not-so-good companies like Trump.

1.C.1.a

Another area where good companies don’t necessarily conform to
the advice of good-governance advocates: executive sessions,
which give boards the chance to evaluate their CEOs without
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

interference. Executive sessions are also sometimes coupled with
a designated lead director. But GE, the most-admired company in
the country in 2001, didn’t allow executive sessions in Jack
Welch’s day. Said Ken Langone, who serves on the boards of both
GE and Home Depot, “Jack will give you all the time in the world
to raise any issue you want, but he wants to be there during the
discussion.” GE’s not alone; many good boards never have
meetings that exclude the CEO.
Another supposed safeguard of good governance—audit and
compensation committees—turns out to be near universal. A 2001
survey by the NACD and Institutional Shareholder Services of
5,000 public company boards shows that 99% have audit
committees, and 91% have compensation committees. Sunbeam,
Enron, Cendant, McKessonHBOC, and Waste Management all had
the requisite number of committees and guidelines, yet
accounting scandals still penetrated this governance shield. Let’s
not forget, either, that the audit committee at Enron was
consulted about suspending the conﬂict-of-interest guidelines
and willingly agreed to it.

The Importance of the Human Element
So if following good-governance regulatory recipes doesn’t
produce good boards, what does? The key isn’t structural, it’s
social. The most involved, diligent, value-adding boards may or
may not follow every recommendation in the good-governance
handbook. What distinguishes exemplary boards is that they are
robust, eﬀective social systems. Let’s see what that means.

Packet Pg. 11
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

8 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great
1.C.1.a

Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

What distinguishes exemplary boards
is that they are robust, effective social
systems.
A Virtuous Cycle of Respect, Trust, and Candor.
It’s diﬃcult to tease out the factors that make one group of people
an eﬀective team and another, equally talented group of people a
dysfunctional one; well-functioning, successful teams usually
have chemistry that can’t be quantiﬁed. They seem to get into a
virtuous cycle in which one good quality builds on another. Team
members develop mutual respect; because they respect one
another, they develop trust; because they trust one another, they
share diﬃcult information; because they all have the same,
reasonably complete information, they can challenge one
another’s conclusions coherently; because a spirited give-andtake becomes the norm, they learn to adjust their own
interpretations in response to intelligent questions.
The UPS board of directors has just that kind of chemistry, and as
a result members have debated strategic decisions openly and
constructively for years. The company’s 1991 move from
Connecticut to Georgia was hotly debated within the
management committee, for example, but once the plan to move
was agreed upon, the board chose a new location unanimously
and never looked back. In the mid-1980s, after forging
partnerships with delivery businesses around the world, a
revolutionary concept at the time, the company decided to
reverse course and become truly global itself. In just two years,
UPS was running operations in more countries than are members
of the United Nations. This strategic reversal is generally

Packet Pg. 12
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

9 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

considered a brilliant move, one that might never have happened

1.C.1.a

had board members not respected and trusted one another
enough to consider that a smart move could be trumped by an
even smarter one. The board even tolerated an open debate in
1992, led by a former CEO, over the company’s widely recognized
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

corporate color, brown—the hallmark of UPS’s current advertising
campaign.
A virtuous cycle of respect, trust, and candor can be broken at any
point. One of the most common breaks occurs when the CEO
doesn’t trust the board enough to share information. What kind of
CEO waits until the night before the board meeting to dump on
the directors a phone-book-size report that includes, buried in a
thicket of subclauses and footnotes, the news that earnings are oﬀ
for the second consecutive quarter? Surely not a CEO who trusts
his or her board. Yet this destructive, dangerous pattern happens
all the time. Sometimes a CEO’s lack of trust takes even more
dramatic forms. It’s stunning that Enron’s chairman and CEO
never told the board that whistle-blower Sherron Watkins had
raised major questions about ﬁnancial irregularities. It is
impossible for a board to monitor performance and oversee a
company if complete, timely information isn’t available to the
board.
It is, I should note, the responsibility of the board to insist that it
receive adequate information. The degree to which this doesn’t
happen is astonishing. Consider Tyco. In recent quarters, it’s
suﬀered some of the worst strategic confusion I’ve ever witnessed:
Seemingly every single public statement by the company’s senior
management has been contradicted by subsequent statements.
For example, in January 2002, then CEO Dennis Kozlowski
announced a plan to split the company into four pieces, only to
reverse that plan a few months later. On a single day, senior

Packet Pg. 13
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

10 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

managers announced ﬁrst that a ﬁnancial unit would be IPO’ed,

1.C.1.a

next that it would be sold to an investment house, and ﬁnally that
neither would occur. Where was the board? Why didn’t directors
demand a better accounting of the company’s direction and wellbeing? What brought down the CEO eventually was an apparently
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

private ﬁnancial matter—the board seemed content to keep him
on indeﬁnitely.
Another sign that trust is lacking is when board members begin to
develop back channels to line managers within the company. This
can occur because the CEO hasn’t provided suﬃcient, timely
information, but it can also happen because board members are
excessively political and are pursuing agendas they don’t want
the CEO to know about. If a board is healthy, the CEO provides
suﬃcient information on time and trusts the board not to meddle
in day-to-day operations. He or she also gives board members free
access to people who can answer their questions, obviating the
need for back channels.
Another common point of breakdown occurs when political
factions develop on the board. Sometimes this happens because
the CEO sees the board as an obstacle to be managed and
encourages factions to develop, then plays them against one
another. Pan Am founder Juan Trippe was famous for doing this.
As early as 1939, the board forced him out of the CEO role, but he
found ways to suﬃciently terrorize the senior managers at the
company and one group of board members that he was returned
to oﬃce. When he was ﬁred again following huge cost overruns on
the Boeing 747 the company underwrote, he coerced the directors
into naming a successor who was terminally ill.
Most CEOs aren’t as manipulative as Trippe, and in fact, they’re
often frustrated by divisive, seemingly intractable cliques that

Packet Pg. 14
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

11 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

develop on boards. Failing to neutralize such factions can be fatal.

1.C.1.a

Several members of Jim Robinson’s American Express board were
willing to provide the advice, support, and linkage he needed—
but the board was also riddled with complex political agendas.
Eventually the visionary CEO was pushed out during a business
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

downturn by a former chairman who wanted to reclaim the
throne and a former top executive of another company who many
felt simply missed the limelight.
The CEO, the chairman, and other board members can take steps
to create a climate of respect, trust, and candor. First and most
important, CEOs can build trust by distributing reports on time
and sharing diﬃcult information openly. In addition, they can
break down factions by splitting up political allies when assigning
members to activities such as site visits, external meetings, and
research projects. It’s also useful to poll individual board
members occasionally: An anonymous survey can uncover
whether factions are forming or if members are uncomfortable
with an autocratic CEO or chairman. Other revelations may
include board members’ distrust of outside auditors, internal
company reports, or management’s competence. These polls can
be administered by outside consultants, the lead director, or
professional staﬀ from the company.
A Culture of Open Dissent.
Perhaps the most important link in the virtuous cycle is the
capacity to challenge one another’s assumptions and beliefs.
Respect and trust do not imply endless aﬀability or absence of
disagreement. Rather, they imply bonds among board members
that are strong enough to withstand clashing viewpoints and
challenging questions.
Packet Pg. 15

7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

12 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

I’m always amazed at how common groupthink is in corporate

1.C.1.a

boardrooms. Directors are, almost without exception, intelligent,
accomplished, and comfortable with power. But if you put them
into a group that discourages dissent, they nearly always start to
conform. The ones that don’t often self-select out. Financier Ken
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

Langone tells the story of a widely admired CEO who was invited
to join the board of a famous corporation that is suﬀering great
distress today. He was told that, as a matter of custom, new
directors were expected to say nothing for the ﬁrst 12 months. The
candidate said, “Fine, I’ll see you in a year,” and of course never
got the appointment. Langone explained that directors generally
feel that they are under pressure to ﬁt in so they’ll be
renominated. As he put it, “Almost no one wants to be a skunk at a
lawn party.”

Building an Effective Board
Good board governance can’t be legislated, but it can
be built over time. Your best bets for success: Create a
climate of ...


Even a single dissenter can make a huge diﬀerence on a board.
Bill George, a former CEO and chairman of the board of
Medtronic, reported that a lone dissenter had forced his company
to reconsider near unanimous decisions on several occasions.
One pharmaceutical director held out in opposition to
Medtronic’s acquisition of Alza, a maker of drug delivery systems,
saying it would take Medtronic into an area it knew nothing
Packet Pg. 16

7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

13 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

about. He was so convincing that the acquisition was abandoned,

1.C.1.a

and in retrospect, that was the right decision. Another dissenter
convinced George and the board to reverse themselves and not to
get out of the angioplasty business—and, indeed, to intensify
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

those services—and that shift has paid oﬀ handsomely.
Frequently, executive recruiters looking for leads during board
candidate searches will ask, “Is this fellow a team player?” which
is code for “Is this person compliant, or does he make trouble?” If
a board member challenges major decisions, a company
sometimes goes to great lengths to discredit the person. Consider
Walter Hewlett—an academic; the cofounder’s son, who
controlled 18% of Hewlett-Packard stock; and someone with a
deep understanding of the computer business—who had the
temerity to question HP’s proposed merger with Compaq in the
fall of 2001. Despite the fact that technology mergers rarely work,
his point of view was summarily dismissed internally. When he
was forced to go public with his objections, he was ridiculed
publicly in a smear campaign.
CEOs who don’t welcome dissent try to pack the court, and the
danger of that action is particularly clear right now. Recall that
Enron board members Rebecca Mark and Cliﬀord Baxter resigned
reportedly because they were uncomfortable with paths the
company had taken. And one can imagine a happier ending at
Arthur Andersen had somebody said, “Wait a minute,” when the
document shredding began, or at Tyco when the board learned of
millions in undisclosed loans to the CEO and didn’t question
them.
The CEO, the chairman, the lead director, and the board in
general need to demonstrate through their actions that they
understand the diﬀerence between dissent and disloyalty. This

Packet Pg. 17
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

14 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

distinction cannot be legislated through nominating committee

1.C.1.a

rules and guidelines for director résumés; it has to be something
that leaders believe in and model. Home Depot chairman Bernie
Marcus notes that, for one simple reason, he’d never serve on a
board where dissent was discouraged: When he serves on a board,
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

his reputation and his fortune are on the line. A lost reputation
can’t be regained, and director’s insurance won’t necessarily
protect anyone’s fortune, because there are always exemption
clauses. Marcus has remarked, “I often say, ‘I don’t think you want
me on your board. Because I am contentious. I ask a lot of
questions and if I don’t get the answers, I won’t sit down.’ That’s
the kind of board member that I want on my board…because our
company needs help. We think we’re bright, but we’re not the
smartest people in the world.” Ken Langone corroborates this
view of the Home Depot board. Both he and Marcus describe
times when the board disagreed with management about strategic
questions—when reformulating the small-store concept, for
example, and when revisiting expansion into Latin America. The
upshot wasn’t that the board won and management lost, but
rather that, after passionate disagreements had been voiced,
together they arrived at new conclusions.
According to data complied by Kathleen Eisenhardt and L.J.
Bourgeois, the highest-performing companies have extremely
contentious boards that regard dissent as an obligation and that
treat no subject as undiscussable. Directors at these companies
scoﬀ at some of the devices more timid companies use to
encourage dissent, such as outside directors asking management
to leave while they discuss company performance. What’s the
point of criticizing management, they ask, if management isn’t
there to answer the criticism? It should be noted that skepticism
and dissent don’t constitute disagreement for its own sake but
Packet Pg. 18

7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

15 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

rather are the by-products of a constantly evolving view of the

1.C.1.a

business and of the world.

Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

The highest-performing companies
have extremely contentious boards
that regard dissent as an obligation
and that treat no subject as
undiscussable.
Fluid Portfolio of Roles.
When board members don’t challenge one another, individual
directors’ roles—the ruthless cost cutter, the damn-the-details
big-picture guy, the split-the-diﬀerences peacemaker—can
become stereotyped or rigid. Eﬀective boards require their
members to play a variety of roles, in some cases dipping deep
into the details of a particular business, in others playing the
devil’s advocate, in still others serving as the project manager.
Playing diﬀerent roles gives directors a wider view of the business
and of the alternatives available to it.
Occasionally board members can so thoroughly transcend their
normal roles that they’re able to change their minds about
something they once built their lives around. This happened at
PepsiCo in 1997 when the board decided to sell the various
components of its well-run restaurant group. CEO Roger Enrico
had previously turned around the unit— which had been the
brainchild of two of Enrico’s predecessors, Don Kendall and
Wayne Calloway—and must have felt great pride of ownership.
Yet he eventually convinced all that the restaurant unit should be
sold so that it could ﬂourish freely beyond the controls of the

Packet Pg. 19
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

16 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

parent company. It’s proved to be a brilliant decision.

1.C.1.a

Individual Accountability.
Board accountability is a tricky problem for CEOs, as a 2002
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

survey by the Yale School of Management and the Gallup
Organization underscores. In that survey, fully 25% of CEOs claim
that their board members do not appreciate the complexity of the
businesses they oversee. In addition, we’ve all seen instances
when individual responsibility dissolved in large groups. This
certainly appears to have happened at Enron: Practically
everyone involved has pointed the ﬁnger of blame at others or
proclaimed his or her ignorance as a badge of honor. The fact that
many board members were ﬁnancially sophisticated seemed to
have encouraged the other board members to defer to their
expertise.
There are various methods for enforcing accountability. Home
Depot’s board members are expected to visit at least eight stores
outside their home state between board meetings; GE’s board
members dine with the company’s largest suppliers and
distributors the night before the annual meeting. Perhaps the
most eﬀective enforcement mechanism, though, is old-fashioned
peer pressure. Directors who take their duties seriously, and let
their fellow directors know they’re expected to do the same, are
the best insurance against a board whose ﬁrst question, upon
receipt of the quarterly earnings report, is, “When’s lunch?”
Performance Evaluation.
I can’t think of a single work group whose performance gets
assessed less rigorously than corporate boards. In 2001, the NACD
surveyed 200 CEOs serving as outside directors of public ﬁrms.
Sixty-three percent said those boards had never been subjected to

Packet Pg. 20
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

17 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

a performance evaluation. Forty-two percent acknowledged that

1.C.1.a

their own companies had never done a board evaluation. A 2001
Korn/Ferry study of board directors found that only 42% regularly
assess board performance, and only 67% regularly evaluate the
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

CEO.
This lack of feedback is self-destructive. Behavioral psychologists
and organizational learning experts agree that people and
organizations cannot learn without feedback. No matter how
good a board is, it’s bound to get better if it’s reviewed
intelligently.
A performance review can include a full board evaluation,
individual directors’ self-assessments, and directors’ peer reviews
of one another. Most often, the nominating or governance
committee drives these evaluations. A full board review can
include an evaluation of such dimensions as its understanding
and development of strategy, its composition, its access to
information, and its levels of candor and energy. In individual
self-assessments, board members can review the use of their time,
the appropriate use of their skills, their knowledge of the
company and its industry, their awareness of key personnel, and
their general level of preparation.
The peer review can consider the constructive and less
constructive roles individual directors play in discussions, the
value and use of various board members’ skill sets, interpersonal
styles, individuals’ preparedness and availability, and directors’
initiative and links to critical stakeholders. This process is often
best driven by a board committee such as a nominating or
governance committee, which is assigned the execution and
follow-through responsibilities for this process.
Packet Pg. 21
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

18 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great

Annual evaluations led PepsiCo and Target to change their

1.C.1.a

processes for reviewing strategy with their boards. Instead of the
mind-numbing, back-to-back, business-unit dog and pony shows
that boards often suﬀer, each company decided to spend a full day
of each board meeting looking in depth at the strategic challenges
Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

of a single business unit.• • •
We all owe the shareholder activists, accountants, lawyers, and
analysts who study corporate governance a debt: In the 1980s and
1990s, they alerted us to the importance of independent directors,
audit committees, ethical guidelines, and other structural
elements that can help ensure that a corporate board does its job.
Without a doubt, these good-governance guidelines have helped
companies avoid problems, big and small. But they’re not the
whole story or even the longest chapter in the story. If a board is
to truly fulﬁll its mission—to monitor performance, advise the
CEO, and provide connections with a broader world—it must
become a robust team—one whose members know how to ferret
Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld is the senior associate

out the
truth, challenge
one
and even have a good ﬁght
dean
for executive
programs at
theanother,
Yale School
of
Management
now
and then.and the president of Yale’s
Executive Leadership Institute.
A version of this article appeared in the September 2002 issue of Harvard
Business Review.

Recommended For You
10 Proactive Questions Every Board Member Should Be Asking

How to Be a Good Board Chair

A Guide to the Big Ideas and Debates in Corporate Governance

Packet Pg. 22
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

What Makes Great Boards Great

19 of 19

https://hbr.org/2002/09/what-makes-great-boards-great
1.C.1.a

Attachment: What Makes Great Boards Great (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

Where Boards Fall Short

Packet Pg. 23
7/7/2022, 11:56 AM

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Survey 2016 Board of Directors Evaluation and Effectiveness (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

1.C.1.b

Packet Pg. 53

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

1 of 5

https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-boards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance
1.C.1.c

Attachment: How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

Boards

How Boards Should Evaluate
Their Own Performance
by David Larcker, Taylor Griffin, Brian Tayan, and Stephen Miles
March 01, 2017

The New York Stock Exchange
requires that the boards of all
publicly traded corporations
conduct a self-evaluation at least
annually to determine whether
they are functioning eﬀectively.
The purpose of the exercise is to
ensure that boards are staﬀed
and led appropriately, that board
members are eﬀective in
fulﬁlling their obligations, and
that reliable processes are in
place to satisfy important
oversight requirements.
Our research suggests that many
board evaluations are inadequate. In a study of 187 boards we
undertook with The Miles Group, a consulting and advisory ﬁrm,
we found that most board evaluations fail to identify and correct
poor performance among individual members. Only around half
(55%) of companies that conduct board evaluations evaluate
individual directors, and only around one-third (36%) believe
their company does a very good job of accurately assessing the
performance of individual directors.
Directors in our study expressed fairly signiﬁcant dissatisfaction
with boardroom dynamics at their companies: Only around twothirds (64%) strongly believe their board is open to new points of
view, only half strongly believe their board leverages the skills of

Packet Pg. 54
7/7/2022, 12:02 PM

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

2 of 5

https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-boards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance

all board members, and less than half (46%) strongly believe their

1.C.1.c

board tolerates dissent. Forty-six percent believe that a subset of
directors has an outsize inﬂuence on board decisions (a dynamic
referred to as “a board within a board”). The typical director
believes that at least one fellow director should be removed from
their board because the individual is not eﬀective.

Attachment: How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

The problem is rooted in the evaluation process itself. Board
evaluations typically start with a review of board structures and
processes, and is often performed by the general counsel or
outside legal counsel. It usually includes a checklist of items that
public companies are required to review and the standards
associated with them.
The more diﬃcult but more value-producing part of the board
evaluation process is to review the contribution of individual
directors and the interpersonal and group dynamics among board
members. As the data above indicates, this exercise often is not
performed in a rigorous matter, and in many companies is
omitted entirely.
How can boards better evaluate the performance of directors? Any
thorough evaluation should assess the following:
How You Lead
This section should evaluate the eﬀectiveness of board
leadership, including the lead independent director (or
independent chair) and committee chairs. It should examine how
the leader was chosen, the skills and experiences the individual
brings to bear, and their leadership style. The company should
develop criteria for these roles and evaluate the available skill sets
of its members to determine who is most suitable. Companies
should avoid appointing a leader by default (e.g., the person who
volunteers to do the job or the most senior member of the board)
or looking solely to the required background (such as a qualiﬁed
ﬁnancial expert), because temperament is often key to
eﬀectiveness in the role.
The inadequacy of leadership evaluation among many boards was
evident in our survey. Seventy-two percent of directors believe
their leader is eﬀective in inviting the participation of all
directors, and 68% believe they are eﬀective in inviting the
participation of new members. Only 60% believe their lead

Packet Pg. 55
7/7/2022, 12:02 PM

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

3 of 5

https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-boards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance

director “asks the right questions.” Worse, only one-quarter (26%)

1.C.1.c

believe they are very eﬀective in giving direct, personal, and
constructive feedback to fellow directors.
How You Manage
This section should evaluate the manner in which board meetings
Attachment: How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

are conducted, including whether they are organized for
maximum productivity and the honest exchange of ideas, and
whether they encourage the full participation of all members.
Particular attention should be paid to committee meetings and
executive sessions. According to many directors, the “real work”
of the board takes place in committees. The evaluation process
should determine whether clear expectations are established for
the work conducted by committee members and whether
committee reports are eﬀective in keeping the full board
informed about issues facing the company.
The evaluations should also review whether executive sessions
(which take place outside the presence of management and
include only nonexecutive directors) are properly structured to
ensure that the day’s meetings are productive and eﬀective in
framing and reviewing discussion topics. One red ﬂag to look out
for is whether board members feel uncomfortable expressing
their honest opinions in front of management and instead wait
for executive sessions, when management is not present, to speak
freely. This dynamic is detrimental to decision making.
Survey evidence indicates that lack of trust in the boardroom can
be a problem. Only two-thirds (68%) of board members say they
have a very high level of trust in their fellow directors, and only
63% believe their board very eﬀectively challenges management.
Half (53%) believe that their fellow directors do not express their
honest opinions in the presence of management.
How You Contribute
Finally, board evaluations stand to improve by rigorously
reviewing the manner in which board members interact,
including which directors participate and how decisions are
made. To this end, it is critical that each individual director be
evaluated not only on the knowledge and expertise they bring but
also on the manner in which they contribute.
Packet Pg. 56
7/7/2022, 12:02 PM

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

4 of 5

https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-boards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance

In particular, the evaluation process should review the behaviors

1.C.1.c

that directors adopt in interacting with others. Examples of
positive behaviors include asking the right questions, building on
others’ points of view, framing content in a constructive fashion,
and staying engaged. Positive individual behavior earns the
attention of fellow directors and management and demonstrates
that the participant is trying to contribute rather than “win” an
Attachment: How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

argument. Leadership and coaching can help individual directors
develop a range to their style so they can more eﬀectively
contribute to group deliberations.
Research evidence demonstrates that many boards suﬀer from
poor group dynamics. Three-quarters of directors in our study
believe their fellow directors allow personal or past experience to
dominate their perspective. A signiﬁcant minority (44%) say that
their fellow directors do not understand the boundary between
oversight and actively trying to manage the company. Thirty-nine
percent report that their fellow board members derail the
conversation by introducing issues that are oﬀ topic.
All publicly traded companies are required to conduct an annual
evaluation. The evaluation process can be greatly improved by
treating the board as a high-performing group of individuals and
evaluating its leadership, management, and group dynamics.

David Larcker is the James Irvin Miller
Professor of Accounting and Senior Faculty at
the Rock Center for Corporate Governance at
Stanford University. He is a co-author of the
books Corporate Governance Matters and A
Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.

Taylor Griffin is the chief operating officer of
The Miles Group.

Brian Tayan is a researcher at the Rock Center

Packet Pg. 57
7/7/2022, 12:02 PM

How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance

5 of 5

https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-boards-should-evaluate-their-own-performance

for Corporate Governance at Stanford
University. He is a co-author of the books
Corporate Governance Matters and A Real Look
at Real World Corporate Governance.

1.C.1.c

Attachment: How Boards Should Evaluate Their Own Performance (4679 : Evaluating Board Performance)

Stephen Miles is the founder and chief
executive officer of The Miles Group.

Recommended For You
Test Your Board's Readiness for the Post-Covid Era

How to Be a Good Board Chair

10 Proactive Questions Every Board Member Should Be Asking

How CEOs Can Work with an Active Board

Packet Pg. 58
7/7/2022, 12:02 PM

