Jun 21 2018 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: In the Board conference room. Present with us, for the sake of this record. I
will note that we have Director Folska and Vice Chair Menten here in person, and we have
Second Vice Chair Deadwyler, who is on telephone. We also have Director Walker here with us
in person, and we have Director Anderson on the telephone. And thank you for joining us, Chair
Anderson. I will note further that Dave Genova, our General Manager and CEO, is not present
with us at this time because of a personal family emergency. And taking his stead is the erstwhile
Mike Meader, who will be contributing, relative to that.
The Executive Committee having a quorum present, and also noting that Director Lubow is en
route, which, when she arrives, will post a full complement of the committee. But with the
quorum, we can proceed now with the first business item on our agenda, which is the review of
the June Board meeting agenda. That draft agenda down for the June 26th, 2018 full meeting of
the Board is before you in the packet that you have.
And the agenda is consistent with normal procedures for the full Board meeting, with the
notation that there are four items on unanimous consent and one item on recommended action.
Relative to the unanimous consent of the agenda, if I may exercise the prerogative and address
that first. I note that we have listed Approval of General Managers 2019 Goals under unanimous
consent.
I raised the question both with the Executive Manager of the Board, Barbara McManus and with
the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management and Committee Chair Walker as
to whether we had a consistent recollection that the goals, as presented at the meeting this last
Tuesday, was, in fact, unanimous, or whether there was some dissent as to that and whether it
should be moved to recommended action. Because the matters dealt with issues brought to our
attention by Vice Chair Menten, I wanted to invite you at this time, Natalie, if you would let us
know if you're comfortable without staying under unanimous consent, or if you think that we
ought to move it to recommended action.
NATALIE MENTEN: I prefer it under recommended action.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Is there any objection to moving that item to recommended action by
any of the Board members, Executive Committee members?
SPEAKER 2: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing none, then let's move that to recommended action. I think there were
simply some comments that you wanted to share, relative to some of that, and I think it's
appropriate to have that discussion in public. No matter what the final result is, discussion is
always good when we pursue it in a constructive manner.
Are there any other comments, questions, or issues relative to the draft Board meeting agenda,
the questions addressed in the first instance to the Executive Committee, that I'm going to invite
any other directors in the room, and Mr. Meader to comment on that. So from the committee

members, any issues or concerns with the draft agenda as submitted, other than the one change
that we've made?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Silence.
NATALIE MENTEN: Not for me, but.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I thought Barbara said no. Is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS Yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No, I did not say no. I said, well.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, well. Well, then let's go to you first, and then I think Director Folska may
have a comment. So Director Deadwyler, the floor is yours.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. I still have some concerns that we didn't have any specificity
to a couple of the goals, specifically the ADA goals. I wanted to add more specificity so that
Dave knows our intent or is it just having a word there. And I don't know if there are any other
ones, but we'll be asked to further explore and word it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I think that's the point of moving that item, the GMOC (General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee) goals, the GMOC committee
report relative to the General Manager's goals. We have agreed will be moved from unanimous
consent to recommended action, which will allow each director to make any comments they
believe are pertinent to that discussion, at which point, if amendments are sought, they may be
sought, and then ultimate approval will be sought at that time after that discussion.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Fair enough. I support the objection.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Folska, your thoughts.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm not sure this is the appropriate place, so guide me as it is appropriate.
It was made known-- you weren't there. I wasn't there.
Oh sorry, my phone's on.
For the June 5th committee meeting on Government Relations, where the General Manager did-So I mean, that isn't on the agenda because it wasn't on the agenda, but I think it should be on the
agenda.

DOUG TISDALE: Well, actually, I was going to say, perhaps that discussion belongs under
other matters in this meeting. But you've just suggested, at the tail of your comment, that perhaps
that question should be on the agenda. Let me share with you, for the benefit of those who were
not part of the conversation, I did have a discussion with Vice Chair Menten about this, and I've
had some discussion with the Director Folska about this as well.
And relative to the approval-- specifically what we're discussing-- in the Government Relations
Committee, there was a report that General Manager, pursuant to his signing authority under our
delegation of authority to him for execution of contracts, had executed the contract with
Brandeberry~McKenna, sometimes referred to as be BBMK. The BBMK contract was signed by
him, pursuant to his authority, because the amount involved was under the authority.
General Manager did mention that to me in advance of the committee meeting and advised me
that he was prepared to present that to the Government Relations Committee for its review and
approval and asked my opinion on it. I shared the opinion that the contract sets our obligations
and-- excuse me, also-- the delegation of authority resolutions that this Board have adopted, has
adopted.
Those resolutions set the authority for the General Manager, and that my counsel is you do not
come to the Board with matters that are under your signing authority and seek approval. Because
were you to do that, in one instance, then you open the door-- what we call a slippery slope-- for
each of such items to come before the Board, and that that would defeat the purpose of the
contract and the purpose of the delegation of authority.
And so I counseled that it should not be presented for approval but should be presented for
information. I have since also learned that in the past, almost routinely, those contracts that were
under-- some were under and some were over-- the delegated signing authority. But all of them
have been presented to the Board. My reaction to that-- and for the sake of the record, let us note
that Director Lubow has now joined us and is in the room.
JUDY LUBOW: Hello.
DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE] pointed out that the fact that we may, in the past, have acted
in contravention of our adopted delegation of authority resolutions, and in derogation of the
contract, doesn't mean that we should continue it. In fact, what we should do is to the point of
stopping that and proceeding in that manner.
So that's the basis for General Manager presenting the item for information and not for approval.
But we absolutely wanted to make sure that the Board was informed. So there's the background,
and let me turn it over to our Secretary, Director Folska, relative to comments on that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think that, in large part, your conclusions are proper and accurate. What
makes this contract, of all the lobbyists-- the federal, state, and the local-- unique from all the
other contracts that would fall within this purview for the signing authority-- under $250,000 a
year, or per contract, rather-- is that those contracts work directly with our Board members. No
one works directly with us just those three.

And I think it's important, regardless of what the amount is, is that the Board members have an
opportunity to, quote/unquote, "buy in" to the people that will be representing them, and you
could even say representing our district. [INAUDIBLE] a different way. And so I think that
those three positions, or those three contracts, should be excluded from that authority. It's a
different standard, I think.
DOUG TISDALE: Other comments and thoughts and observations on that? Vice Chair Menten.
BARBARA DEADWYLER I agree with Director Folska, because I'm looking at the top half
[INAUDIBLE] his authority, and it was never for these types of contracts. It was always for
something else. And to see that all of a sudden, our contracts were-- the some Board members
may not be satisfied to the services. They had that automatically done because the purview
doesn't give the Board an opportunity to express their concerns for their vote. Most likely, the
Board would vote for it anyway, but it still takes away some of our authority in order to
[INAUDIBLE] people are representing us and are they doing a good job, and not just because
the General Manager may think so. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Appreciate that from Second Vice Chair Deadwyler.
And now I'll go to First Vice Chair Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I believe that this choice, for all three of the contracts, and any others that
may come in the future that fall under this category, should remain as they have in the past, with
the Board of Directors. And not just informing us, but giving us the authority to vote on those
contracts.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I will speak up also, even though I came in late and didn't hear your
brilliant statement about it, but nonetheless. What I find difficult about what happened is that the
Board had been voting on these contracts, and then the Board stopped being allowed to vote on
it. And I feel that is a slippery slope. I really don't like that, and I don't want to see that done
again. I agree with the other comments that were said also, and that issue stuck in my craw.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: No, thank you. And as I said, the heat, if any, should be directed at the Chair
and not at the General Manager. Because the General Manager said to me, should I present this
to the committee for approval, or should we go based on the contract and the delegation of
authority resolutions and sign this? And with my counsel as Chair to proceed with the law here
and proceed with the contract, do what that says and not present it.
That said, I'm aware now of the sensitivity associated with that, as it relates to these contracts,
and as importantly, the past practices. And even though it is my belief to say-- I've given this
comment before, so forgive me if it's repetitious-- the three laws of municipal government I
always talk about: We've always done it that way. We've never done it that way. What do other
cities do? And the only one of those that's valid is, what do other cities do?

To say we've always done it that way is not a reason for anything. That said, it does beg the
question of, well, ought you not to have a discussion and point out that, yes, we always did it this
way, but that's actually not allowed under our authority, so therefore we need to address that and
change it? That's the discussion that got short-circuited.
JUDY LUBOW: And-- may I comment again-- the idea that we've always done it this way is not
enough reason to continue. I think there's definitely some evidence of possible reason to
continue. Just saying no-- I mean, there was a reason why it was always done this way, and that's
worth discussing.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I mean, because let's face it. We've always done it this way. We've
always paid our bills. We've always done it that way. Well yeah, you don't need any more reason
than just-- of course you do because that's how you keep things going. So the suggestion that I
think I hear from Director Folska is that we should bring to the Board's attention, at the full
Board meeting, this discussion, this matter, relative to that, and let the Board make the
determination?
Do we wish to proceed with the delegations of authority that we have in place, or would we like
to amend those delegations of authority and say, you may assign except as relates to the
following expressed items, which would be, for example, and to use your term, any and all
lobbying contracts.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. If I may comment, if that would be all right.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're an Executive Committee. That's our job, to decide what goes on the
agenda or not. So I would, actually, make a motion to take that out of just whatever happened
last year, and we have a copy of it here, June 5th, and put it up for the Board to vote, whether
they like BBMK or not, or continue with the contract, and their option, the third-- well, I guess
it's the fourth option, right? Three years was two option.
So I mean, that's what the authority of this Executive Board is tasked with. That's why we come
here and spend time to talk about it and put that on the agenda. Moving forward then, I would
suggest we have that conversation as a Board of the whole. But for this particular thing, I would
be uncomfortable moving forward with just a unilateral decision on your part, and Dave's, to say,
yeah, we're just going to sign it and we'll think about it next year. I'm not comfortable with that.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN I second the motion.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So the motion is to take the BBMK contract authorization and to
put it on recommended action so as to allow discussion and debate and the opportunity to have a
replication of some of this discussion with the full Board, proceed there, and then at that time,
we'll be in a position to address to the Board, all right, we have these delegations of authority.

Are we going to live by what we have in place? Do we want to amend what we have in place? Or
do we want to just get rid of all of them? I mean, we can do that, too. Say, the Board has to see
everything, if you want to. And I think that's the motion that I hear. Director Deadwyler, do you
have any questions as to that motion by Director Folska, that we take the BBMK contract
approval and present it to the full Board for discussion under recommended action at the
Tuesday meeting?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes. Because I believe that we should have had the first discussion
before a decision was made so that we knew beforehand what you were thinking, and then we
would have had the chance to comment and make that decision, if we wanted to leave it alone or
change it. So yes, I agree with Director Folska.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Appreciate that comment. Ms. McManus, you had a
comment?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So all items that go to the full Board have to go through a committee
and there's no item currently. I just want to point that out.
DOUG TISDALE: Because even though it was reported on in the Government Relations
Committee, it was not presented as a recommended action to that committee.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But then the Executive Board has the authority to put it there.
DOUG TISDALE: To put an item on the agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, but it's not on our agenda to approve to the Board meeting,
because I'm just hearing about it now.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, how can we have the authority to do that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can address that.
DOUG TISDALE: The question that I hear is, does the Executive Committee have the authority
to add an agenda item to the agenda?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Absolutely. We've done it before.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I hear that part. But remember, that's part of the whole reason for this
discussion. Just because we've done it before doesn't mean-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, it's within our bylaws. Three signatures, eight signatures, or the
Executive Board. And if four out of five people on the Executive Board, or all of us, choose to
add something to the agenda for the Board meeting, it can be there. It has been done. And
actually, Judy, or Director Lubow and Director Menten has done it both, and Director Francone.

DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I think there's some merit to that discussion, too, and I think we may
have to address that. But Mr. Meader, let me ask you for your input.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. I just have a question, just for clarification. So I know we do have a
signed agreement. So is the proposal to bring the recommend action to discuss it? Or was the
proposal to discuss and actually re-vote on whether we should sign an agreement that we've
already signed.
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent question. My clarification would be I think we could
present it as, under recommend action, to ratify and reaffirm. And I think that that presents the
issue. It squarely presents it. It does not negate or abrogate the contract, but it does present for
ratification reaffirmation, and I think that's one possibility. Director Walker, and then I'll get to
you in a second, Director Anderson. Let me just ask Director Walker first.
JEFF WALKER: What's the GM's signing authority?
DOUG TISDALE: Say it again.
JEFF WALKER: What is the GM's signing authority?
BARBARA MCMANUS $250,000.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. $250,000 per contract. And this one, as I recall, from my recollection
of the discussions, under that $250,000. And I think it's actually under $200,000.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I think it was $127,000.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, something such as that. Right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But if I may make a point of order.
DOUG TISDALE: Sure.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This Executive Committee gets heard before everybody else. And I think
that you were going down and getting the vote from other Directors and you hadn't gone to
Director Lubow yet before listening to everybody else's.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, thank you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I thought you already had spoken on it.
JUDY LUBOW: I speak a lot.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, no, no. That's the vote. Because you asked for Menten and you asked
for Deadwyler.

DOUG TISDALE: Let's go to Director Lubow and then we'll go-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's fine. That's all I had to say.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's fine. That's an excellent thought. And then Director Anderson, just
stay in there. We're coming back to you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Yes? Am I voting on your motion?
DOUG TISDALE: We're not voting.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, we're not.
DOUG TISDALE: No, we're still in discussion. I wasn't asking for a vote.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That was the discussion, but still, she didn't have a chance to discuss.
JUDY LUBOW: Barbara, you have a concern. And I'm wondering, is there any way we can
address that concern, given the discussion about the Executive Committee having the authority to
put things on the agenda? Is there some technical problem in us doing that, as far as you're
concerned? Because it wasn't on the physical agenda yet.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well I mean, I see a couple of difficulties. I see that the contract is
already executed. So I don't know what Brian Iacono would say to that and what that looks like,
in terms of any of our governance, because I don't know the answer to that. Secondly, we have
brought items through committees and/or to the Board, but they usually-- like I would have had
to have known, before this agenda came out. I think in the bylaws it explicitly says that the chair
or the Executive Manager needs to be notified of that item ahead of time so that it can go through
a committee, which would be approved through this committee. But right, now there's not an
item. So I'm not saying it can't be done, but right now, I don't know how it can be done.
DOUG TISDALE: That's a legitimate question. And I think we can discuss that, because I think
the way I'm hearing the motion as amended by my discussion hopefully recaps a little bit to
present to the Board, under recommended action, the motion to ratify and reaffirm the execution
of the BBMK lobbying contract by the General Manager, which motion, simply stated at that,
will allow the discussions relative to-- well, we have signing authority. What does that mean if
we're going to separate this out? It ought to be done.
And then, also, secondly, on the substance, does anybody have any objection to BBMK as being
our state lobbyist? It gives people an opportunity to speak on that. My assumption is that the
Board will make appropriate decisions and proceed in a responsible and reasonable manner. But
I do recognize there is enough concern with the fact that we had, in fact, always done it one way,
and we decided let's, in fact, abide by the contract and our resolutions and proceed in a different
way, without separately telling people that's what we were doing. And I think that's the issue that
has arisen.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So will there be any objection, then, to bringing it through one of the
other committees next month and pushing it to the Board meeting next month?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. I think that needs to be taken care of this month.
JUDY LUBOW: There is an objection.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: There is an objection. It needs to be done this month.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, there's perhaps some concern that because it was enough of a change
from what we've done, that perhaps it needs to be addressed timely. Mr. Meader, can I ask
Director Anderson and then come back to you, if you don't mind?
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Anderson, you've heard all this discussion, and we have a motion
before us relative to putting the BBMK contract on recommended action with a motion to ratify
and reaffirm the General Manager's execution. Your thoughts on this, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: You know, I have just heard the words "we don't like them." We
have a signing contract. I have a concern about that.
And if there is good evidence that they have not performed, then I think the Board should know
it. But it shouldn't be a personal thing like "we just don't like them."
And that is all I have heard. I want evidence. And quite frankly, this is more than a slippery
slope, in my mind.
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you for that observation. And I think what I'm hearing is that there
was a sense that one might, might, reasonably take that perhaps the real issue is whether or not
they were liked. I don't know that anybody actually said that, but I certainly-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No one said that.
DOUG TISDALE: --appreciate the observation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's an absolute lie.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask Mr. Meader for any thoughts.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. My only question here would be should it be a recommended action?
Just being not sure exactly what would we vote on.
We vote on recommended actions at the Board meeting. And we obviously can't vote necessarily
to not approve a signed agreement already. So should it be under other matters more for

discussion, or would we just be voting on trying to change the authority? Or would that have to
go through committee first, too?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's actually a resolution, so yes.
MIKE MEADER: To do that, OK. So I'm not sure if-- I guess my question is, is that the
appropriate spot for it?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
MIKE MEADER: And what would you be voting on?
DOUG TISDALE: That's a good question. It's the issue of, should we, going forward as to other
contracts, change the signing authority so as to say, certain contracts-- that's a separate issue that
would have to go through a separate discussion.
And I think probably through the General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee,
because it relates to the General Manager's performance of his duties under delegated authority,
pursuant to the Board's previously adopted resolutions. So for that reason, I think it would be
separate. And that that would have to come through a committee and be presented to us.
The single issue presented now is ratify and reaffirm the BBMK contract as executed by the
General Manager, pursuant to and consistent with-- and let me emphasize those words-- pursuant
to and consistent with delegation of authority resolutions and the General Manager's contract
previously executed. Just to put it in context.
But the question is one that is raised, and the Executive Committee and other members of the
Board are entitled to raise issues before the Board. And it's not up to us to stop them from raising
the issue. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So I missed part of it. I was listening in as I was driving down. So I'm not sure
if the issue here is the performance of the contractor, or if it's a personal preference.
Some Board members worry if it's a process-- if the problem is with the process. So I'm so
confused.
We gave the authority-- maybe not these people, but this body gave the General Manager signing
authority, and we have dozens of contracts that get signed every year that we never see. So I'm
not sure why-- and they're all important, from maintenance to repair, construction, design, et
cetera. They're all important, so I'm not sure why this one rises above them, those others.
So if somebody could clarify, is it the performance of the terms of this contractor-- performing
the terms of the contract? Just a personal preference? You'd rather have somebody else? They're
all good, or they're all horrible. Or if it's the process that is giving you heartburn.

DOUG TISDALE: And if I can comment on that first, and then I know Director Menten wants to
speak. I am addressing the process. And I think that's specifically and particularly what Director
Lubow said, and I think that's how Director Folska began her discussion as well.
Specifically, we have always had those specific contracts come before the Board for its approval.
This time, we did not.
JEFF WALKER: Even when they were within the General Manager's-DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I've actually had our Executive Manager pull that information for me
for, I think, the last four years-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Six.
DOUG TISDALE: --for the three different contracts. And each one has been presented as a
recommended action.
And that's why I say, to the extent that there is heat to be taken, ladies and gentlemen, the heat
comes to the Chair. Because the Chair is the one who said, if the contract says he can do this-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Do you need water?
[LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. If the contract says he can do this, and if our delegation of authority
says he can do this, then you should do this.
JUDY LUBOW: You're such a lawyer.
DOUG TISDALE: And it shouldn't come before us. I know! Shame on me.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm keen to hear what Director Menten-DOUG TISDALE: OK. I'm going to say, now, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. One, I'd like to play this video, because it took me time to cut
this two minutes here of this.
JUDY LUBOW: We get to play a video?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, she did. She has Adobe. She has Premier.
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah, the premiere. This is what [INAUDIBLE].

NATALIE MENTEN: Because two of the members were not-- three-- were not here.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: We have the time. If you have something that you want to supplement the
record, then please.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then let me add to discussion of just the dollars. Right now, we've
gotten far along.
When I look at the payment register online, we've paid-- I see the July-- this is what's coming up
soonest on my phone-- $10,500 for I believe one month with BBMK.
In a purchase order, I have final two months' payment to BBMK of $42,000 and change. That
would be $20,000 plus a month. I don't know if there's additional expenses.
Our terms, I believe, were $250,000 per contract.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: And you'll see this in the video. This was a three-year contract with twomonth option.
JUDY LUBOW: Two-year.
NATALIE MENTEN: Two year, I'm sorry. That right there puts us over the $250,000. If it's
$120,000 a year, then we are above this amount.
So I'd like to play the video just-- I clipped it. It's very quick.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And if I may respond-DOUG TISDALE: Claudia, let me ask you just one favor-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: --because I know you can't see that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I can't see that.
DOUG TISDALE: Exactly, I know. And that's why I understand, and-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It gets misinterpreted as being rude.

DOUG TISDALE: Just give me a sec. Because Barbara had a-BARBARA DEADWYLER: [INAUDIBLE] a minute, please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, Barbara, go.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I have another appointment, and I wanted to know if there's any
other other business. I know we're talking about this right now, but is there anything else that we
need to go over today where I need to be present? Otherwise, I'm going to head out the door to
my other doctor's appointment.
DOUG TISDALE: Is there any other Director has any other business?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: She needs to go.
DOUG TISDALE: I know, that's what I'm asking now. Any other director have any other
business they will want to bring up in this meeting?
There is only one observation I'm going to make, and that's going to be very brief at the end. And
it's just to talk again about the distinction between management and policy review and oversight
as a Director. And I just want to take two minutes to talk about that. That's the only other
business, and that's simply more a point of personal privilege than any kind of business.
So I think the answer to your question is no. So if you can stay on the line for just a minute, we'll
be able to have the vote, but I wanted to have Ms. McManus comment. She's been waiting
patiently, and then we're going to play the video.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I believe when I reviewed the documents that I gave to you, Chair,
that the initial contract with Brandeberry~McKenna did come to the Board. It's just the option
years that had come before the Board in the past as this one-- have come to the Board in the past
that were under that dollar amount that have come to the Board and was decided not to come to
the Board this time. Do you recall that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that's what I recall. And that's why I want to have that clarification. And
I think it's appropriate.
Look, we can spend a lot of time over this. Or we can say, let everyone have an opportunity for a
civil, reasoned, and concise venting and expression of feelings before the entire Board and then
let the entire Board take its action. So that's the thought. So Vice Chair Menten, are we ready to
roll?
JUDY LUBOW: Producer Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So what do I do?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Walker, if I may address your comment while Director Menten is
getting the video lined up. The question isn't whether we like them or not, or anything like that.
That it has been a process that we have in place because we as a Board work directly with each
of our lobbyists, unlike any of the other contracts, which, you say, quite rightly, are important,
and valid, and all of that. But that we have a personal interaction on a regular basis with all three
of our lobbyists, and that's a completely different category than all the other contracts that we
work with.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. With that-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: --let's roll the tape.
NATALIE MENTEN (SINGSONG): Da da da da da.
[LAUGHING]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And we might hire Natalie to help edit our shows.
[LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: The tape is rolling.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Volume?
JUDY LUBOW: It has to be louder.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't think I can-- [INAUDIBLE] just wanted to let the Board know that we did get [INAUDIBLE] with an RFP
for our state early childhood services contract. And we awarded a three-year contract to the
Brandeberry McKenna team. And there are two [INAUDIBLE].
- Congratulations, you really [INAUDIBLE]. [INAUDIBLE], you're up.
- Great, thank you. Not a lot to report on.
- This meeting's adjourned.
- [INAUDIBLE]
- Oh, I'm sorry. [INAUDIBLE]

- I [INAUDIBLE] matters. So if that would be all right [INAUDIBLE]. During the discussion I
heard [INAUDIBLE] Brandeberry McKenna contract, we're in an option period. And that was
decided [INAUDIBLE] the Board of Directors to extend that option.
I'm wondering-- my understanding is that one or two individuals make that choice, that in the
past hasn't come before the Board?
- In the past, it has come before the Board, but this particular contract is within the General
Manager's contract authority. We went through an RFP (request for proposals) process, there
were five people on the evaluation team.
Director Solano was one of the participants. And the other participants were Rolf Asphaug and
Heather McKillop, Scott Reed, myself, and Director Solano.
- OK. Understand in the record that I'm not at all happy when decisions are taken away from this
Board. Thank you.
- OK. Anybody else? OK. We adjourn. Next meeting's August 7. Five minutes.
- Thanks.
NATALIE MENTEN: See, I did pretty good there, didn't I?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You did! Very professional.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm impressed, and-JUDY LUBOW: On so many levels.
DOUG TISDALE: --maybe we can save more money in the future when we have other video
needs, that we can call upon Vice Chair Menten for that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just give me a thumb drive, and I'm ready.
[LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: But I thank you for that, because that does help. And I know that Directors
Anderson and Deadwyler were not able to see the video, but were you able to hear that?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Barely.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. It was a little weak. Sorry about that.
NATALIE MENTEN: But she was there.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say-- you were-- actually, you look good on tape, Barbara!

[LAUGHING]
You look good on the videos! And-JUDY LUBOW: That's all that counts.
DOUG TISDALE: --it was just a replay of a portion of that. So the-LORRAINE ANDERSON: I was-- excuse me-- I was unable to hear it. But you cannot believe
that it sounded like just a din. I would appreciate it if somebody would send me a link to that so I
can watch it myself. And I have no idea what it's about.
But I will say this-- I heard some discussion about these are personal relationships. We each have
a personal relationship, and that is not how RTD hires contractors. That contractor represents the
interests of the whole Board, and not Board members individually.
And I want a copy of this meeting, please, on disc or something. I can't tell you how upset I am
right now, so I am prepared for war.
JUDY LUBOW: Ooh.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well-JUDY LUBOW: We've got [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: --hopefully, we'll be able to avoid that. I think as long as we all have a good
discussion, we can avoid that. Let me observe that-- and Director Menten, you will be in a
position to send a link?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to speak to that right now.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, you speak to that.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. This was a link sent to all Board Directors in an email from Mr.
McKay after it had gone through its process with added CC, closed captioning. And that is on
our website and is our new form of minutes.
And I took that video, right-clicked it, saved it to my thumb drive, put it in Premiere, clipped-razor tool-- got it down to the two minutes. So anyone in the public or a Board Director can go to
our website and review that under Government Relations from June 5th.
And I have not heard a word about any personal issue here. This is about-JUDY LUBOW: Process.
NATALIE MENTEN: --process. Thank you, Director Lubow.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Let me observe for the sake of the record that the video clip that
we just had shown to us by the Director is an extract from the official video that RTD produced
from the June 5 Government Relations Committee meeting. And principally, the comments at
the end of that meeting were the focus of that clip relative to Vice Chair Menten's expression of
concern relative to the approval of the contract, which was not consistent with what the Board
has done in the past relative to lobbying contracts. And that's what the clip was.
Now, that said, the motion that's on the floor-- and I'll let Director Folska speak in just a second-the motion that is on the floor here is to move to recommended action a motion to ratify and
approve the General Manager's execution of the BBMK contract, pursuant to and consistent with
General Manager's contract and the previous delegations of authority issued by this Board. That's
the motion. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just for clarification, I may have said "personal." To Director Anderson's
point, I certainly didn't intend for it to be "personal" in that way. I don't go and have-- I don't
play tennis with them. Well, I don't play tennis, but anyway-[LAUGHING]
But I don't have a personal, quote unquote, "relationship" with any of our lobbyists, but I do have
a professional one. And I do have lunch with them, and I do have meetings with them, and I do
go to Washington, D.C., with them. And I don't do that with any of the other contractors that we
have working at RTD.
That is all I have to say. So I wanted to make that clear distinction. I would like to call for the
vote.
DOUG TISDALE: I think there's no other individual who has expressed a desire or interest in
speaking, so I think we can dispense with a separate vote on presenting the question and instead
can go directly to the motion to place on recommended action the motion as I have now restated
a couple of times. So I think-- is there any question about the motion, any confusion? Yes,
Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So this last time you repeated the motion, you said to ratify and re-- ratify and-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
You didn't say "reaffirm," you said "approve." So I wanted to make-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I meant to say "ratify and reaffirm." That's what I mean. And
I'm sorry. [INAUDIBLE] question.
NATALIE MENTEN: I heard it.
DOUG TISDALE: And because I'm going through this process tomorrow with the Board of
registered psychotherapists that I chair at DORA (Department of Regulatory Agencies) and we

have to ratify and reaffirm all of the appointments that our program manager approves in
between sessions for people who don't hit a certain target. That triggers full Board action. So I've
got these other things in my mind, too.
Any further discussion of the motion? Hearing none. All those in favor of the motion, please
indicate by saying "aye."
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed to the motion? There are none opposed to the motion,
so the Executive Manager will add to recommended action for Tuesday's meeting the motion as
stated to ratify and reaffirm the Brandeberry~McKenna contract, et cetera, as previously
discussed.
Just making sure we get the wording in about "pursuant to and consistent with." All right. Any-BARBARA DEADWYLER: Hey, Barb Deadwyler, signing out.
- Bye-bye.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much, Barbara. Appreciate it.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in between then and now, I'd like to go over those dollar amounts
outside of this meeting, that I'm not clear this was under the $250,000.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that's a fair, separate question. In other words, a ratification of are these
amounts, in fact, within the delegated authority, or do they exceed the delegated? That's the
question, is it not?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, they can just send me the contract. That'll be fine.
DOUG TISDALE: So I think that's the question, and I think that's a legitimate inquiry. And we
can do that, because I think we all want to make sure that we have that information prior to
Tuesday.
Because the vote was taken on this motion on the premise that, as presented to us, the contract
was within signing authority. And that's the process issue that we really are focused on here. And
I think, for the sake of this record, it's important to emphasize, this is a process question.
Where when the Chair is presented with a question, do I bring a contract to the Board or not, and
the Chair's response is, if it's in signing authority, you don't bring it to us. And that process, as
relates to the lobbying contracts, is a separate question. Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just a question, and I don't really need an answer now. But I was curious
about it. Because this was an option year, why did we have five members of our staff issue an
RFP and go through that very time-consuming process when we had an option year?

And there was no information of anyone thinking they weren't doing a good job. And I don't see- if we're finished with the five years, and we're going to go to a new three-year, two-year, that's
one thing. But I don't recall doing that in the past either. So you may know or not know, but I
just-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not clear right now. I think this was a renewal about the November,
June time, and I know I voted multiple times on Brandeberry~McKenna over my six years.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, but why do we go through the renewal? Because this-JUDY LUBOW: It's an option we don't normally-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's an option year. Why did you do the RFP in the first place? I don't
understand that. And that's separate.
DOUG TISDALE: It's a separate question, but a very legitimate question that-- and because
General Manager Genova is not able to be here by virtue of the personal family circumstances
that obtain now, it's one that Mr. Meader will be able, at some point, to ferret out.
And perhaps Sherry Ellebracht may be the best source, because I don't know that we can impose
upon Mr. Genova right now. But Ms. Ellebracht may be able to answer that question. And
Director Solano also has information here.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I was vice chair and chair of that committee for four years. And so when
we went to Squire Patton Boggs and-- you don't go out for an RFP unless you're getting a whole
new contract. And then you exercise those options.
If you choose not to exercise the options, then you go out. But there was no dissatisfaction.
Anyway, that's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Appreciate that observation. Other comments before I make one?
And then we're going to have Mr. Meader give us any thoughts that perhaps Mr. Genova has
asked you to share. And thank you for [INAUDIBLE]. We appreciate it.
NATALIE MENTEN: And excuse me for a moment.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. You'll be back?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I'm just running down the hall.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, that's fine. We can certainly give you that. In Congress, they call it a
point of personal privilege. That's why it was invented.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh.

DOUG TISDALE: I don't know if you ever knew that.
JUDY LUBOW: Mm-mm.
DOUG TISDALE: But under parliamentary procedure, the notion of a point of personal privilege
related to a member of the House or the Senate rising and explaining why they were leaving a
chamber. And they said, "Mr. Speaker"-- or Mr. President, depending upon which chamber
they're in, "I rise to a point of personal privilege."
And then they would walk out the door, and then they'd come back a minute later. And-JUDY LUBOW: That's a P3.
DOUG TISDALE: --they'd be all set. That's right. It's a P3. And we love those P3s, believe me.
So we'll get to my comment and to any thoughts on-- and let me ask, Mr. Meader, while we're
waiting for Natalie to come back here. Because in order to have a quorum, we actually need
Natalie in the room to get back to three. Do you have anything that you're going to be reporting
on from Mr. Genova or other stuff you need to bring to our attention?
MIKE MEADER: I don't, no. I had a conversation with General Manager Genova, and he's
obviously very concerned with his family right now. So he didn't share-- I know he is going to
give me a call later today, and I'll just give a recap on the meeting here.
DOUG TISDALE: Perfect.
MIKE MEADER: And if there's anything else to-DOUG TISDALE: And that's why I said I don't think he needs to be bothered with any of the
specific questions and stuff. He should be informed that we're simply going back to the full
Board on a motion to ratify and reaffirm the BBMK contract execution by the General Manager,
pursuant to and consistent with General Manager's contract and the delegations of authority
previously issued by this Board.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. But I'll investigate the question that was asked about-- the reason for
going to an RFP in an option year and be prepared to respond to that.
DOUG TISDALE: That would be great, thank you. That would be useful. And that may not even
be relevant for the discussion on Tuesday night. We may be able to dispose of this issue
summarily without that information.
That said, a request has been made. It's a reasonable request that's germane to the functioning of
this committee. Therefore, we ask that you please follow up.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. And then my last comment, then, relates to what I stated before I
was going to bring up, and that is the distinction between management and board governance.
Yes.
JEFF WALKER: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Walker, you wanted to bring something up?
JEFF WALKER: Do you have to vote on the agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we haven't approved the agenda to move forward yet.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, that's-- thank you! Glad you're here-- see, and I should have done that
last time on the GMOC. When I should have said, by the way, should we approve the whole
thing, as amended?
And I forgot to do that. So thank you for being here. Is there a motion to approve the agenda as
now amended?
NATALIE MENTEN: One question, just really quickly.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do we happen to-- these August 2018 service changes do include the
amended dollar amounts-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --for the [INAUDIBLE]?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, because it's down to $1.924 (billion) if you look at that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So those have been changed. And General Manager Genova's updated
GMOC document on the requested changes is also in here as well as the original.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. And I take it-- that's why the yellow highlight appears here on the
agenda for the because that's the change.
MIKE MEADER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: So is there a motion to approve the agenda?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a motion to approve the agenda. Is there a second-- [AUCTIONEER
CHANT]

Say "aye."
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
My brief observation-- governance versus management. We had at our Board-only retreat some
extended discussion about this that I thought was actually really, very well done. I think Bob did
a nice job in talking about that and not talking down to us, not treating us like first graders or
first timers on Boards.
And it rises because, as I said at Tuesday's meeting, it's a fine line. And it really is tough to say
whether something falls on one side or the other.
And everybody can have different opinions. And my opinion is not in any way, shape, or form
binding. It is offered as counsel. It's offered as counsel to seek to have everyone understand and
agree that our function is to govern and not to manage.
And that it becomes easy to cross that line unless-- and that's why it's not intended to be nagging.
It's intended to be constant vigilance. Constant vigilance relative to the distinction between
governance and management as to which reasonable people can disagree reasonably.
And that's the only observation I wanted to make. In light of that, anybody else have any other
thoughts or observations that you wish to share at this time?
JEFF WALKER: On that issue?
DOUG TISDALE: On any issue. Yeah, on any issue, because my polemic is done.
[LAUGHING]
I'm going to climb off the box, because if I stay up here too long, I tend to fall off. So I'll climb
off as delicately as I can.
JEFF WALKER: So we're in other matters?
DOUG TISDALE: Other matters.
JEFF WALKER: So I've been wanting to talk to the Executive Committee for a while about-our-- how do I say it-- policy?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Expense?
JEFF WALKER: Our expenses. So I've seen a few items, two handfuls of items I'd like to
address. But I'll make it a short list today, because some are longer term.

So one is that currently, we don't need a receipt to receive a $10 meal. We need an itemized
receipt to receive an exact amount, but we don't need any receipt to receive $10-- a $10
reimbursement for a meal. I'd like for the policy to be rewritten or revised to include a receipt.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything?
JEFF WALKER: For any type of reimbursement.
NATALIE MENTEN: Question.
[INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: If he had other-NATALIE MENTEN: It's right about that one.
DOUG TISDALE: I know, but if he has other-- it might be more efficient if we just get them all
on the table.
JEFF WALKER: So then others-- is something I mentioned the other day. I was out of order
when I mentioned it, but I felt I had to. The moment was then. The iron was hot.
So one of the things that-- because we are in financial straits-- not as dire as we were back in
2011, 2010, but at that time, the Board took action to reduce their expense accounts. I would like
to see something like that again.
At the time, I think they reduced them by $2,000 for local and $3,000 for travel or vice versa. I
have the documentation. I don't have it in front of me, because the-- anyways.
So I would like to have a discussion of these, so I had to put that thought in people's minds about
doing that again. Because if we're going to ask other departments, or our people, our customers
to tighten their belts, I think that we can do that also.
I don't think-- most Board members don't spend anywhere near their allotted expense amounts,
but some do. Some exceed. But I think we can do this job effectively and efficiently if we have a
tighter budget.
I don't think-- it doesn't hurt me. I don't think it would hurt most people. I don't think it should
hurt anybody doing their jobs.
One other thing that I noticed when I was on the Executive Committee last year, several years of
signing checks, is that our phone bills are all over the map. Mine's $20, other people's are
pushing $100, for just the phone bill. I'd like to see something a little more consistent.
So I know in some private sector companies, that there's a stipend, and that's all you get.
Anything above is [INAUDIBLE].

So I'll suggest $75. I talked to a few Board members, and the dollar amount $75 came up. And I
think that seems reasonable for most phone plans.
Nothing exorbitant, nothing big. Just something to get the job done, so we can check an email
and return phone calls. And maybe do an internet search for something.
But I think some kind of cap on that is reasonable. I'd go for something lower, but I don't know if
that would have any support. So that's all I will bring up for now, just for discussion if today,
time allows. If not today, some other time.
DOUG TISDALE: No, and thank you for bringing that to the attention of the Board. I'm going to
recognize Vice Chair Menten in a second here, and then Director Anderson.
And Director Anderson, you still on the line with us? Are you still with us, Director Anderson, or
have you hung up now? OK, she may have-LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have not.
DOUG TISDALE: Ah, there you are!
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Can you hear me?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm just checking your attendance. I'm not inviting comment right now. I'm
going to have Director Menten speak and then see if Director Lubow has a comment, and then
I'll come back to you.
I just wanted to see if you were there, so thank you. Director Menten, you had a thought.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So in regards-- I do like the tightening of our expenses all the way
across-- Board Directors, staff, all of it.
So my question would be, as just a quick example, let's say I'm at a parking meter, and it's much
more cost effective for me to throw in eight quarters than to pay a $10 or $20 parking lot. And
I'm going to an RTD-related meeting. Do you want me to take a picture of the meter? What
would you want me to do in that case?
JEFF WALKER: OK, that's something else I considered. We provide free parking for Board
members for that specific reason. I think if free parking is provided, there's no need to park at a
parking meter.
We have shuttles. We get free bus passes. We have a free shuttle for everybody. I don't think
there's any need other than disability, for any of us who don't have disability, to have to park at a
meter and have the district pay for that parking.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I'll disagree when it goes to that point, just because there's meetings
that are not right along the corridor. And if it means another hour of my life compared to $2, for

the amount we are paid, I would have to disagree. But I would be happy to take a picture of the
parking meter?
JEFF WALKER: Well, if you pay with a credit card, you get a receipt.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I mean, I can see [INAUDIBLE] your bill. It shows up on your charge card.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, great. If I've got to do that, that's fine.
OK, then with the phone, I'd be willing to explore that. I think most plans now, especially with
unlimited data, we've gotten it down to below the $75. For me, it's $60 now, unlimited. So I
would be open to that discussion.
And as relates to the others, expenditures-- and I think we would need to bring it to the whole
Board to discuss this. Is this part of our bylaws?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The expense policy is a specific policy.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, I thought it might be a good time that we could take a look also
at the bylaws. There's been some concerns for some Board directors on the last bylaw change.
That would be an ideal time to open up both of those, perhaps. So I'm open to the discussion.
And because especially I think we're in a peak in the economy. And do believe if historical
trends are true, we're going to need to start to tighten our belt a couple of notches across the
agency.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: My one comment is, is there a problem? I literally don't know if there is. If
there is a problem, it should be addressed. If there isn't a problem, I don't know if it's necessary
to address it.
DOUG TISDALE: So if it ain't broke, don't fix it?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I literally don't know. But if there have been abuses, let's deal with it.
JEFF WALKER: I wouldn't call them abuses, because they've all been within what's allowable.
But I think what's allowable and what I've seen is too wide. I think it can be narrowed down.
I won't go into-- but yes, I think, which is why I'm bringing it forward. So yes, there's a problem,
because I think there's a problem.

DOUG TISDALE: I hear a personal expression of concern over the amounts and that the
suggestion is for us to revisit the various amounts.
JEFF WALKER: And some are perceptions of impropriety-- the possibility for impropriety,
whether intentional or not. So not needing the receipt for a $10 reimbursement-- at the very least,
it can present the appearance that it could be abused.
DOUG TISDALE: And it could. Yes, all right. Director Anderson, any thoughts by you on this
other matter as raised by Director Walker? Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I think each person has different financial needs. And I think that if
the Board wishes to go through this, that's fine.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And that actually very succinctly summarizes my view. That is, if
a Director has a concern and wishes to bring it through the committee process, the Board
ultimately has the opportunity to weigh in on it and to see whether there's support for that or not.
And so rather than borrowing that discussion at this time, I think we have concluded presentation
on that. So we know what the idea is, and we look forward to whatever thoughts you have that
maybe you want to present something as a specific proposal.
And I don't even know that it needs to come to this committee to go before the particular
committee. I think Finance and Audit would be the committee.
JEFF WALKER: Yes, so my further questions are, which committee would be the appropriate
committee?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, my thought is Finance and Audit, but I leave that to the other members
of the committee and the Executive Manager to weigh in on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I believe we brought it through Finance and Administration the last
time.
DOUG TISDALE: That would seem to make sense.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Operations might make sense too, depending on the volume of
documents. As you know, we're working on some documents.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And I say Finance and Audit, because I'm on the Finance and Audit
Committee at the zoo, so I sometimes mix up the names, and I apologize. But yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: So on that same then thread, you said you're working on some documents.
Does that mean some of our policy documents?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.

DOUG TISDALE: No. We are still working on, as we promised at the retreat, that general
overview of effectively Board ground rules-BARBARA MCMANUS: Operating procedures.
DOUG TISDALE: --you recall the operating procedures that we use for the Board. And we said
discussions should be limited to the topic, and people need to be civil, and so on. The ground
rules-- we have a series of those in place right now.
My goal has been to say, OK, we have eight different documents. Can we get it down to one?
And say, this is what it is, and then present to the full Board for consideration, discussion,
revision, and ultimate approval. That's the other documents.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and the second one is the committee charters. So as the
committee charters were added as we moved along, there was a point when we weren't all
committees of the whole. And so we are to the point where we are now, and all of those
committee charters were added incrementally, and they're not consistant verbiage across all of
them.
So John and I have been working on-- we put together a grid of all of the committees, what
verbiage is in each one, what needs to be in each one. Everything is clarified so across the Board,
all of the ad hoc committees, the GMOC and the Executive Committee, as well as all of the
committees and the Board meeting charters, are succinct and uniform.
DOUG TISDALE: And reasonably consistent is the idea.
NATALIE MENTEN: So with the recent discussion regarding our Communications discussion-that would be then tied into potentially what's being modified down, would be just my thought
out loud. So that's it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's fine. All is fair. All is welcome, the sharing of thoughts out loud so
that we all have a sense of where we're coming from.
Are there-- Any other matter to come before the Board? The Executive Committee, excuse me.
Hearing none at this time, we will stand adjourned at 1:14 PM on Thursday, June 21.
Thank you all for your attendance and your time. Director Anderson, we'll be hanging up now.
Thank you for hanging in there.

