1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, August 5, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

7:06 PM
7:07 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:59 PM
7:10 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

6:58 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

7:02 PM
7:07 PM
7:05 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:00 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

7:10 PM
7:05 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:00 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:00 PM
6:59 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bottini, Rick Clarke, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Robin McIntosh Jr., Doug MacLeod, Bob Mickelson, Vivian
Morales, Thomas Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Ashland Vaughn,
Michael Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Kaitlyn Benz, Jenifer Brandenberry, Jane Donovan, Tina Francon,
Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Joey Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Monte Whaley

Committee Chair Folska commended General Manager Phil Washington and Chair Sisk on
their presentation during the FasTracks Update to the Transportation Legislation Review
Committee (TLRC). Also present were Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy,
James, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, and Tobiassen. The Hon. Tracy Kraft-Tharp invited RTD
to attend the September 9th meeting to listen to the alternative transportation discussion.

B. Recommended Actions
No Recommended Actions were presented.

C. Updates

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandenberry, from Brandeberry~McKenna thanked the Directors
who attended the TLRC. She said the legislators appreciated their presence.
The legislators see the RTD Directors as peers: elected officials working
together towards a common goal. She also commended Phil Washington
and Chair Sisk on their presentation. She said that the questions they
received were positive and constructive. She noted that RTD relations with
TLRC members have improved over the past few years thanks to the
Directors and staff.
She noted that election campaigns are under way. A third of legislators will
be new after the election. Brandeberry~McKenna has been meeting with
candidates and attending interim committees. During the July, 2014 TLRC
meeting there was a conversation on High-Performance Transportation
Enterprise (HTPE) and their role in financing transportation projects. Senate
Bill 228 stipulates that when the budget situation hits a certain threshold,
$200 million would automatically go to transportation funding. The
transportation community at large is working to have the funding occur as
directed by the current statutes.

Director Anderson said that the TLRC meeting earlier that day was great.
She pointed out how the RTD General Manager and staff are held in high
regard nationally. National and international delegations visit RTD to learn
how the agency does transit.
Committee Chair Folska also recognized Terry Howerter, Chief Financial
Officer, Doug MacLeod, Manager for Financial Reporting, and Sherry
Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, for attending the TLRC meeting.

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Sherry Ellebracht said that Roger Sherman did not attend the meeting as
there were no updates at the local level. Mike Dino from Patton Boggs is
out of town. She will present the update, prepared by Jared Fleisher from
Patton Boggs, Washington D.C.
She said that Congress passed a last minute bill to keep the Highway Trust
Fund solvent until May, 2015, giving it a 10 month extension. Beneficiaries
of the Highway Trust Fund will probably find themselves in a similar
situation as the possibility of a long term bill during the lame duck session is
dependent on the election. The bill did extend the reauthorizations so RTD
is receiving the funds under MAP 21. Patton Boggs continues to advocate
on RTD’s behalf to restore the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) definition from the
prior transportation bill. The CO House Delegation penned a letter to
Secretary of Transportation Foxx asking again for another look at the BRT
definition.
She mentioned that the White House announced they will facilitate a Public
Private Partnership (P3) Initiative this September. Details are still being
determined. Patton Boggs and Senator Udall are working towards RTD
having a role during the summit.
Sherry Ellebracht attended Senator Bennett’s roundtable on infrastructure. It
was a short notice event held at one of Denver Union Station’s conference
rooms. Afterwards they boarded the W Rail Line to the Jefferson County
building. She said this is another example of RTD being front and center and
looked upon as a model. She emphasizes Patton Boggs and CO Legislative
Delegation’s work keeping RTD in the forefront.
Director Daly asked if he will still receive Saturday mail delivery, in reference
to one of the options to keeping the Highway Trust Fund solvent. Sherry
Ellebracht said that mail funds were not considered for the Highway Trust
Fund. She said that the Highway Trust Fund will remain solvent due to

pension smoothing, extending customs user fees, and transferring money
from underground fuel storage tank repairs.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 2, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned to the FasTracks Committee Meeting at 7:19
p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

