Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 21, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

October 21, 2010

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October
21, 2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Second Vice-Chair
Busck, and Treasurer Tayer (via phone).
Subject:

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp, Director Bagley

Other Board Members
Present:

I.

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to
order at 12:05 p.m.

Approval of Board Bylaws
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
approve the Board Bylaws for the
October 26, 2010 Board meeting.
Director Busck seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

Approval of Guidelines for Executive Committee Elections
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to
approve the Guidelines for Executive
Committee Elections for the October 26,
2010 Board meeting.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 21, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
Discussion:

Vote on
the Motion:
III.

Director Tayer shared a concern from one
of the Board members about this process,
specifically step 5 of the process that
speaks to the eligibility of new Board
members to run for office. The
Committee discussed this concern and
felt it appropriate to move this item to
recommended action where it could be
further discussed by the full Board.
Committee Chair Pro Tem Martinez also
instructed Paula Perdue to send out an
email to the full Board advising them to
review both the Board Bylaws and this
recommendation with the special
provision, before the Board meeting of
October 26.

The Motion PASSED.

October Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the agenda.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
the October Board meeting agenda to the
full Board for vote on October 26, 2010.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent



Approval of General Manager’s 2010 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the General Manager’s goals for 2010.



Approval of General Manager’s 2011 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the General Manager’s goals for 2011.



Resolution No.___, Series 2010A and 2010B
Certificates of Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the execution

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 21, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
and delivery of an annually renewable Lease Purchase Agreement (the
“Lease”) with RTD Asset Acquisition Authority (the “Corporation”)
and related documents pursuant to which there will be executed and
delivered Tax-Exempt Certificates of Participation, Series 2010A and
Taxable Certificates of Participation (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Series 2010B (collectively, the “COPs”).


Resolution No.___, Series 2010A and 2010B Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of
Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2010A and Regional
Transportation District, Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks
Project) (Direct Pay Build America Bonds), Series 2010B (collectively,
the “Bonds”).



Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the 2011 Plan Year
Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize the General Manager
to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The 2011 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget is $7,194,130.
The District’s expected cost for 2011 is $6,784,179. It is important
to note, however, that our 2010 actual expense is coming in below
2009 actual by -6.53%. This is due to the success of the 2010
implementation of the Cigna self-funded options and the carrier
change for the District’s life/disability coverage. This is a significant
achievement considering that the medical trend for employersponsored group plans has been estimated to increase from 7% 11% each year.



Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States
Military should be extended from the presently approved date of
December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011. Utilization has been
minimal to date and this extension will have a minimal impact on
RTD.



Recommended Action



Approval of January 2011 Recommended Fare Policy Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the recommended fare policy
changes, as outlined in Attachment A, to take effect beginning

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 21, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
January 1, 2011.

IV.



Approval of January 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the January 9, 2011 Service
Change package as revised and summarized on Attachment A
resulting in a net annualized cost savings of approximately
$2,412,600, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.



Approval of Policy Guidelines for Board Executive Committee
Elections
It is recommended by the Board Executive Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts these policy guidelines to help facilitate the
annual process for election of officers to the Executive Committee.



Approval of Board Revised Bylaws
Other Matters
Director Busck asked for an update on the Fiscal Sustainability
TaskForce. Director Tayer shared they have selected a facilitator and
have drafted a list of potential representatives from the citizen’s group.
They are looking for a broad spectrum of people with a financial,
creative perspective, more philosophical in nature and who are creative,
out of the box thinkers. He also stated that at the Rail-Volution
conference, he heard some interesting and creative thoughts from other
transit agencies that could be part of this conversation.
The Fiscal Sustainability TaskForce will become an agenda item on the
Board agenda and Director Tayer will begin providing monthly updates
to the full Board.
Committee Chair Pro-Tem Martinez reflected on a comment he had
made at the Operations Committee where he expressed concerns
related to complaints that with the proposed increased fares, this could
increase the number of potential issues with drivers who may have to
enforce a number of policy related matters along with the fare-could
create confrontational issues with riders next year. He wanted RTD to
look at the tipping point (elasticity issue) of when people chose to walk
away from mass transit.
Director Busck added this should be an item that is looked at by the
Fiscal Sustainability Taskforce.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on October 21, 2010, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
General Manager Washington added that a key component of this
Taskforce will be to educate people this is a universal issue for the
transit industry. There are lots of factors that could affect the ridership
issue.
V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:31 p.m.

