1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 26, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM
5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM
5:33 PM
5:29 PM
5:25 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:34 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:23 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:26 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 13 members present at roll call. Director Menten
arrived late, and Director Mihalik was absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Gina Callahan, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Martell Dyles,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Todd Nikkel, Jannette Scarpino, Bill
Sirois, Tom Smyth, Yong Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Audrey DeBarros, William Gross, Elise Jones, Joan Peck, John
Thompson, Joe Triplett

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy stated there were no retirees for the month of September. He recognized
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, Todd Nikkel, Manager
of Cost and Budget, and Tom Smyth, Cost and Budget Analyst, for receiving the
Distinguished Budget Presentation Award from the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA). He noted that the award is the highest form of recognition on
government budgeting, represents a significant achievement by these individuals, and
reflects the commitment of staff to meeting the highest principles of government
budgeting. He added that these great employees do a lot of hard work.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, echoed Chair Hoy’s statements and said that the budget staff has
improved on the budget book each year. She remarked that receiving the award means that
RTD has met all the rigorous criteria established by the GFOA. She added that the work of
the budget staff reflected well on the organization and thanked them for their hard work.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone who wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
Joan Peck, Longmont City Council, spoke about the State Highway 119 (SH119) Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT) Project. She said that the system is vital to Longmont economic
vitality and quality of life. She added that she urged the Board to keep the $30 million
funding for the project as listed in the Strategic Business Plan (SBP). She stated that the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has over $100 million planned for the
SH119 corridor, and RTD’s $30 million is needed to leverage CDOT’s dollars. She further
added that, as a cost savings measure, she encouraged staff to look into the Volkswagen
settlement fund to purchase buses for the corridor. She stated that, now that US Route 36
is almost complete, she said that SH119, per the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS),
should be the priority. She said that this project also fits the DRCOG Metro Vision Plan,
Regional Multimodal Vision Plan, and Urban Renewal Plan for Longmont. She added that

there is both business and community support in Longmont for the project to address the
congestion on SH119. She said that, as improved forecasts from the Leeds School of
Business come in, she urged the Board to make SH119 a priority.
Elise Jones, Boulder County Commissioner, read the following statement:
Honorable Members of the Regional Transportation District Board of
Directors,
Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am Elise Jones, a member of the
Boulder County Board of County Commissioners, and am speaking on behalf
of our full Board.
I am here to express our continued support for timely funding for the State
Highway 119/Longmont Diagonal Bus Rapid Transit, and to urge you to keep
the $30 million for its implementation in the Strategic Business Plan.
It is critical to keep this funding in the current Strategic Business Plan for a
number of reasons:
1.

The ongoing commitment of RTD funding for this project is key to
leveraging over $100 million in CDOT dollars currently planned for the
corridor. This project has been identified as a high priority project by
CDOT and maintaining the committed RTD funding for this corridor is
critical if we are to successfully leverage the additional monies from
CDOT necessary to implement this project. Delaying RTD's funding
would put these opportunities for partnership at risk.

2.

There is regional consensus that this project is the highest priority
BRT corridor. It was identified through the Northwest Area Mobility
Study (NAMS), and in the associated 36 Mayors and Commissioners
Coalition consensus statement, which is also supported by the
Commuting Solutions Board of Directors.

3.

This project has momentum and community support. The recently
initiated collaborative NEPA/design process includes a broad range of
interests, including Longmont, Boulder, Boulder County, Commuting
Solutions, the Northwest Chamber Alliance, the MCC, RTD and
CDOT. This effort is anticipated to be completed in the next few
years. Pushing funding timelines even further in the future could put
the NEPA clearances at risk.

4.

We continue to strongly support completion of FasTracks, however
we are also concerned about the proposed diversion of the base
operating system to fund FasTracks construction and operations
elsewhere in the region. The use of base system funding for
FasTracks sacrifices the current and future quality of the bus system
that serves the greatest number of people at a lower cost per
passenger in order to build the more expensive rail portion of the
system that serves fewer people at a greater cost per rider. It is
important in times of fiscal constraint to put available revenue
towards the most cost effective elements of the current and future
transit system, which includes arterial bus rapid transit services such
as the SH119 corridor.

Thank you in advance for your consideration.
Aubrey DeBarros, Executive Director of Commuting Solutions, stated that she wanted to
express her agency’s concerns with RTD’s proposed deferment of SH119 capital funding.
She said that, while Commuting Solutions appreciates the agency’s commitment to
balance the financial forecast for the next six years, it is important to Commuting
Solutions’ regional partnership with RTD for the project to remain in the current SBP and
not be postponed. She noted that several of the Directors were not serving on the Board
back in 2014 when the NAMS study was approved by the Board, and she thought it
would be helpful to inform the Board of the partnership efforts between RTD staff, the
Board, and Commuting Solutions’ correlation that went into moving the SH119 BRT
project forward. She stated that Commuting Solutions’ Corridor Coalition group strongly
recommended the project as the number one priority for Commuting Solutions’ region for
the short term. She said that at the time of the study the SH119 project was not in the
DRCOG Fiscally Constrained Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), which it needed to be
eligible for future DRCOG funding. She said that Boulder County took the lead and worked
with RTD to make sure that the planned amendment took place. She noted that, in order
for the project to be placed in the DRCOG RTP, it is necessary for at least partial funding
to be identified, and RTD made that commitment through the $30 million in the SBP. She
further stated that the US36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition and Commuting
Solutions worked with RTD to apply for the DRCOG National Environmental Protection Act
(NEPA) environmental planning funding and that planning effort got started the previous
March. She added that Commuting Solutions and US 36 Metro Mayor’s Caucus worked
over the past few years with several congressional members to make sure that, under the
2015 FAST Act, the federal definition of “BRT” for projects such as SH119 would more
favorably compete for small starts funding. She noted that Commuting Solutions was
working at a federal level to make sure the project could compete for funding. She said

that Commuting Solutions is counting on RTD’s funding to leverage local, regional, state,
and federal funding to make this corridor investment happen by 2023. She added that, in
light of the commitment to Commuting Solutions’ region that has been broken due to
Northwest Rail funding, Commuting Solutions would greatly appreciate the Board’s
commitment to proceed with SH119 corridors in the short term.
Doug Gragg, Denver, stated he is a proud resident of Capitol Hill. He questioned how the
agency intends going to salvage the G Line and said that he would advocate for open
rebellion against the federal authorities by opening the G Line. He said that RTD could
have the G Line running for 10 years before being taken to court. He noted that something
has to be done to prevent wildlife and weeds from overtaking the agency’s platforms and
tracks. He added that the agency has been experiencing a lot of safety instances lately
and said that an incident a day will start keeping the passengers away. He said that people
think there are some routes in the city that are too dangerous to ride.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone advised the Board that the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management committee were in discussion with General Manager Genova to
present the committee’s findings and suggestions as to the General Manager’s mid-year
review. She stated that General Manager Genova has done a wonderful job and noted the
committee had some constructive criticism for him. She further stated that General
Manager Genova would submit his final performance evaluation on October 17th. She
added that, shortly thereafter, the survey will go to the rest of the Board Members, who
would be asked to complete the survey by October 31st, followed by a meeting in
November to discuss the final review.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting minutes of August 15, 2017.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Solano stated that he would abstain from voting
because he was unable to review the minutes.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 against and 1 abstention
(Solano). Director Mihalik was absent

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [13 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Ken Mihalik

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS


August 16th – Directors Anderson, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams, and I, along with several members of the
Transportation Commission, attended the annual RTD/CDOT collaboration
dinner at Piatti Restaurant.



August 19th – Directors Sisk and Tisdale attended the Light Rail Rodeo at the
Elati Light Rail Division.



August 23rd – The Mobility Choice Blueprint Board held a meeting at the
Arrow Electronics Building in Centennial. Directors Francone, Menten,
Mihalik, Tisdale, and Williams attended.



August 24th – Director Francone attended the MAX Program Graduation
Dinner.



August 25th – Also as part of the MAX Program, Director Walker mediated a
panel of transit agency CEOs, which included former RTD General Manager
Phil Washington.



September 5th – A Rider Appreciation Event was held at US36 and Sheridan
Station in Westminster, which I attended.



September 6th – Directors Solano and Williams attended the Denver Metro
Chamber of Commerce Annual Meeting.



September 7th
o

Directors Solano and Francone participated in the Transportation Girl
Luncheon held in Denver.

o

That same day, the Denver Union Station Project Authority held an event
at the Oxford Hotel, and Directors Folska, Francone, Lubow, Solano,
Williams, and I attended.



September 12th – The Denver South Transportation Management
Association held their “Constructing the Future of Denver South” event at
the Madden Museum of Art. Directors Francone and Williams were in
attendance.



September 14th
o

Director Sisk participated in the Rider Appreciation Event held at
McCaslin Station in Superior.

o

The Employee Recognition Awards were also held that day, and Director
Tisdale and I were there to congratulate our outstanding employees.



September 16th – Directors Solano, Tisdale, and I were on hand for the RTD
Bus Roadeo at District Shops.



September 17th-20th – As I’m sure you are all aware, the Rail~Volution
conference was held in Denver this year. Several Directors participated,
including Directors Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, and myself.



September 19th-22nd – Director Williams meanwhile attended the annual
Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA)/CDOT Fall Transit
Conference and Expo in Telluride.



September 26th – A Rider Appreciation Event was held at the Westminster
Station this morning, which I attended.

ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
Chair Hoy announced the following upcoming events:


For September 27th:
o

The next Mobility Choice Blueprint Board Meeting will be held at the
Panasonic building in Denver. Director Menten will attend, and Director
Williams has said she will be calling in; and

o

A celebration will be held at the Lincoln Station Parking Garage in Lone
Tree to commemorate the 50% completion mark of the Southeast Rail

Extension project. Directors Folska, Mihalik, Tisdale, and Walker will be
attending.


Director Francone will be attending the 11th Annual Jefferson County
Economic Development Council Luncheon in Lakewood on Thursday,
September 28th.



Commuting Solutions will host its “How to Ride RTD” event in Lafayette,
and Director Lubow will be there.

Director Archuleta noted that he, along with Directors Solano and Menten,
attended a legislative meeting on transportation.

X.

General Manager's Report


Gave opening remarks at the Autonomous Vehicle Demonstration, Wednesday,
August 16th



Meeting with Tampa group regarding P3 Deals Thursday, August 17th



Conference Call with DTP Board Thursday, August 17th



Attended quarterly meeting with Denver Mayor Hancock and staff Thursday,
August 17th



Speaker on Panel for Eno Transit Mid-Manager Seminar Friday, August 18th



Attended and presented awards Light Rail Rodeo Saturday, August 19th



Speaker at TransComm Monday, August 21st



Meeting with Joe Reed, Balfour Beatty Vice President Monday, August 21st



Meeting with Sean Bradley of Denver Urban League and Dr. Freeman of Community
College of Denver, Tuesday, August 22nd



Attended Mobility Choice Board of Directors Meeting Wednesday, August 23rd



Attended Visit Denver Board of Directors Meeting Thursday, August 24th



Presented 2017 Employee Recognition Awards Thursday, September 14th



Attended and presented awards Bus Roadeo Saturday, September 16th



Presenter/Participant at Rail~Volution Opening Plenary Monday, September 18th



Presenter on Panel at Rail~Volution Monday, September 18th



Meeting with David Rushton, DTP Board Chair Tuesday, September 19th

XI.



Smart Cities Lab Meeting Tuesday, September 19th



Conference Call with Kelly Leid of the Mayor’s Office and Gretchen Hollrah of
National Western Stock Show Tuesday, September 19th



Presenter/ Panelist for Rail~Volution Denver Regional Day Workshop Wednesday,
September 20th



Heather McKillop, RTD CFO, presented SBP at the DRCOG Board Meeting
Wednesday, September 20th



Speaker at Colorado Small Business Collaboration Conference Thursday, September
21st



Meeting with DTP Thursday, September 21st



Presenter/Panel Discussion with Oregon Metro (Portland’s DRCOG) Friday,
September 22nd



Quarterly meeting with Herman Malone of Business Action Coalition (BAC) Friday,
September 22nd



Meeting with Downtown Denver Partnership Board Members Friday, September
22nd



Attended 16th Street Mall Monthly Partners meeting Monday, September 25th



Meeting with DTP Tuesday, September 26th



Meeting with Cindy Terwilliger, FTA Region VIII Administrator Tuesday, September
26th

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy stated that there were three items on the unanimous consent agenda. He
commented that if any Director had a change, or questions, they should request that
action item be pulled from the Unanimous Consent agenda and moved to Recommended
Actions.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve
items A-C on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that he and Barbara McManus, Executive Manager
of the Board Office, were working on a document that lays out understood procedures to
assist the Board. He said one of the topics covered in the document would be the process
for taking a vote in the event that the voting system went down.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 0 against. Director Mihalik
was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [14 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Ken Mihalik

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer from
the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology, Data
Processing Services expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade
project to fund the replacement of the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The
targeted rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines.
B.
ITS Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation
Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract (Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to
exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order
basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the projects on
which the work is performed.
C.
Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise
the final option year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD

contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special
event fares through April 15, 2019.

XII.

Recommended Action
There were no recommended actions.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
There was no new business.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:15 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

