Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 26, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – GFOA 2017 Distinguished Budget Presentation Awards
Jannette Scarpino, Todd Nikkel, and Tom Smyth

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer
from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology,
Data Processing Services expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches
Upgrade project to fund the replacement of the network equipment needed on the rail
lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and Central Platte Valley
rail lines.
B.

ITS Work Order Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract (Contract Number 17DH010) for an
amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an asneeded, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets
of the projects on which the work is performed.
C.

Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise
the final option year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD
contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special
event fares through April 15, 2019.

XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

STUDY SESSION
August 22, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F

Status
Absent
Present
Absent

Arrived
5:28 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Remote
Absent
Absent
Present

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Remote

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:18 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:18 PM
5:22 PM
5:13 PM
5:27 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:18 PM

Directors Deadwyler and Lubow participated via phone.
Francone, and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

5:27 PM

Directors Anderson, Broom,

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Erik Haugen, John Hersey, Russ Larson, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae

Packet Pg. 4

6.A

Parish, Jannette Scarpino, Cheryl Sclafani, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman,
Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter, Susan Wood
Others Present:

William Gross, Steve Lebsock, Huiliang Liu, Angie Malpiede, Jeanne
Shreve, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

Chair Hoy noted RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.

2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan, 2017 Annual Program Evaluation, & Financial Plan
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration, said that she along with Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget &
Financial Analysis, and Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance, would be presenting the
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan (SPB), the 2017 Annual Program Evaluation (APE), and
the long range financial plan. She noted that they would spend more time on the long
range financial plan since that portion did not balance, and while there was a way to get it
to balance, it would not be a popular option. She noted that staff would continue to have
discussions concerning the APE and the SBP in September, and a final recommendation
would be brought before the Board in October. She stated that, because of the time it had
taken to get to this point, there would not be enough time to review the APE or SBP if a
vote occurred in September.
Ms. Scarpino commented that this was the latest version of the SBP and it was balanced
over the six-year period by:









Additional reductions to Capital and Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
projects
Revised lower debt service from bond refundings
Revised investment income from higher interest
Rate forecast and adjusted investable balances
Fare revenue recalibration
o One year of data from fare increase
o Revised average fare revenue
o Re-allocation to Base (higher) and FasTracks (lower)
Base cross-funding to FasTracks in 2023
Use of reserve balances to balance SBP in 2020-2021 – replenished in 2022 and
2023

Ms. Scarpino added that the capital and O&M projects that were classified as safety,
compliance, backlog, or replacement were moving forward in the SBP and noted that the
projects on hold were deemed to be enhancements or expansion. She stated that a final
project list will be presented to the Board for approval in October. She remarked that,

Packet Pg. 5

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

6.A

while the SBP will generate good cash flow in 2022 and 2023, the most difficult years will
be 2020 and 2021.







Incorporated bond and COP refinancings closed in August 2017
Updated farebox revenue forecasts
Updated operating and maintenance cost forecasts
o Did not assume any service reductions
Added investment income on available balances
Used base system funding to fund FasTracks expenditures in 2023

Ms. Cohen explained that last year, when the long range financial plan was adopted, the
plan assumed that the Base system would fund FasTracks in 2024, but this draft has it
beginning in 2023. She noted that the plan is in now in balance and no longer in the red.
She added that there is a fund balance of $2 million and staff used the Capital Acquisition
Reserve, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) and Base system funding to fund
the gaps.
Director Menten commented that dipping into the reserves to close the gap would only
take care of an immediate problem. She asked how many times RTD had used reserves to
close the gap and not seen the projected income and asked how safe this move was.
Ms. McKillop commented that RTD only started reserves a few years ago. Since that
time, revenue forecasts have gone down, but staff had been able to place funds into the
reserves. She said that for this SBP cycle staff had to move money around in order to
balance. She stated that staff felt that it would be more appropriate to use the reserves to
pay for projects instead of pushing them out too far. She added that pushing projects out
too far would put RTD in a precarious position and staff did not want that.
Director Menten asked what staff planned to do if the 2022-2023 estimated revenue
funds did not come to fruition.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff would have to examine operations and capital replacements
and determine the most important needs at that time. She noted that staff will examine
this again next year to review the agency’s position.
Director Tisdale asked, in reference to the APE Summary Cash Flow, whether the FISA
would in fact be depleted but then restored in 2021-2023.

Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Cohen commented that this was the third draft of the 2017 APE and changes since
the last presentation included:

6.A

Ms. McKillop said that was incorrect. She noted that the FISA would be depleted by 2020
and it would never come back again.
Director Williams asked if staff understood the justification of CU Leeds’s 50% increase in
the sales tax forecasts in 2022 and 2023.

Director Williams stated that they must know that something is going to happen in 2023
that everyone else does not know.
Chair Hoy commented that the whole forecasting process is a dark science, and RTD was
blamed many times in the past for being wrong with the internal forecasts, which caused
staff to move to using an outside professional. He noted that by 2023 RTD will have had
several additional forecasts.
Ms. McKillop noted that she would be happy to share CU Leeds’ documentation that
supports their claims.
Director Sisk said that one of the things he has noticed is that staff is using updated fare
box revenue forecasts. He noted that staff needs to dive deep into that too, and the
reality is that the agency is going to have to deal with this next year. He commented that
what staff is implying is that there will be fare revenue increases and the agency is going
to have to make tough decisions. He asked what the fare increase percentage was.
Ms. McKillop responded that it was 10%.
Director Sisk remarked that staff needs to think about doing fare increases on an
incremental basis, and if it is done on an inflation factor, there would hopefully be less
resistance.
Director Lubow stated that it seems to her that the agency is looking at utilizing a reserve,
which could come back to haunt RTD. She added that staff is making assumptions that
could also haunt the agency in the future as well. She noted that the SBP was balanced,
but staff had to do some dancing so to speak, including utilizing reserves. She added that
another issue is that staff is assuming that they can get greater useful life out of the fleet
vehicles.
Ms. McKillop explained that staff is assuming that the vehicles can be used 16 to 18
years. She noted that staff has been able to do that in some circumstances, but staff
hopes in a few years, RTD’s situation will change for the better.

Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop remarked that they felt very strongly that is where the economy will be.

6.A

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, stated that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) guidance is that they will
help replace them every 12 years. He noted that a few years ago, RTD used 14 years for
the replacement baseline and, since that point in time, staff has used 14 years as the
replacement sweet spot. He added that staff assumes RTD will get 16 to 18 years
because of the current replacement challenges.

Mr. Abel stated that staff does the analysis, and in reality, staff will not allow vehicles in
improper condition remain on the streets, but it meant that maintenance costs would go
up.
Director Lubow asked if that was included in the budget.
Mr. Abel remarked that staff had not addressed that at this time.
Director Lubow asked what else the agency would do in addition to using vehicles for 16
to 18 years.
Ms. McKillop noted that the life of the vehicles was the biggest assumption at this time.
She commented that the largest items scheduled were roof replacements at East Metro
and Platte, and in lieu of pushing those out to a specific date in the future, they will be
reassessed yearly. She added that staff is trying to use the asset management process to
determine the condition assessment as of now in comparison to where it was.
Director Mihalik asked for an explanation of the 156% fare increase in the APE.
Ms. Cohen explained that it was a combination of the build out of the additional lines and
the fare increase that Director Sisk mentioned.
Director Mihalik commented that those figures were ambitious, especially compared to the
year before.
Director Menten asked how close RTD was to getting some of the funding for local
matches and when would a report be available for the Board.
Ms. McKillop commented that staff had done a good reconciliation, and as far as cash
contributions, the Board would not see an exact cash contribution in that amount. She
explained that most contributions were done in kind, some were over matched, and others

Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow inquired if RTD had data to support that.

6.A

are close to 2.5%. She added that the matches were made according to how the original
agreements were written.
Director Menten inquired if it was just the W Line that fell under old agreements.
Ms. McKillop said no and noted that there were others as well.

Ms. Cohen explained that the long range financial plan was an overall long term plan for
RTD that included FasTracks and the Base system forecasts. The plan overview and
purpose included:






Overall long-term financial plan for RTD
o Includes FasTracks and Base system forecasts
o Extension of the APE and SBP
Submitted to DRCOG for incorporation into Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
o Required for anyone in the region to receive federal funding
o Time horizon to 2040 to match RTP
Required by lenders and potential lenders to prove RTD ability to repay debt
o Time horizon through final repayment of existing or proposed debt (currently
2050)

Financial Plan Major Elements include:







FasTracks corridor construction
o Post-opening projects through 2040
Ongoing operations and maintenance – FasTracks and base system
o Operating and maintenance costs
o Capital replacement and rehabilitation costs
o Ridership forecasts and farebox revenues
Revenue sources
o Sales and use tax projections
o Federal grants
o Local and third party revenues
Reserves

Ms. McKillop stated that one thing that staff did not discuss for the Base system was that
the Transportation Expansion Project (T-REX) bonds would be paid off in 2024. She noted
that, since staff does not know what will happen in 2023 and 2024, it is impossible to

Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop commented that staff would move on to the long range financial plan and
Ms. Cohen would start with the basics, and she would insert some additional information.

6.A

estimate what the reserves would look like. She explained that the worst-case scenario, if
there was not another action taken by 2024 to de-Bruce the Base system, and a recession
occured, would be that RTD would have to deal with the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights
(TABOR). She stated that for next year’s SBP, staff will be able to better estimate what
may or may not impact RTD. She noted that there could be substantial impacts, and it
becomes even more important if RTD has to refund revenue from the Base system.





Decreased revenue forecasts
o Sales and use tax
o Farebox revenues
Increased operating and maintenance costs
o Base and FasTracks

Ms. Cohen commented that, on the Sales Tax and Use Chart, the blue line is where RTD
was last year, and the orange line is CU Leeds forecast which is steadily below the blue
line.
Ms. McKillop added that the difference in sales and use forecasts for both the Base
system and FasTracks is $480 million. She explained that this plan is significantly
different from last year, with a large cost attributed to the North Metro Line costs. She
also noted that staff had made preliminary assumptions for the upcoming Collective
Bargaining Agreement (CBA) negotiations, and she commented that RTD had recently
increased benefits for operators with the $1 per hour pay increase. She explained that
what the Board is seeing is that revenue forecasts came down and operation costs
increased, causing friction in the SBP.
Director Lubow inquired as to what was the total difference.
Ms. McKillop stated that between now and 2040 the difference was estimated to be $1.3
billion.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the long range forecast was in a different format than the
Board had seen before. She stated that this would allow for better transparency and
visibility and noted that the Board should see positive balances in the Base system again in
2024. She noted however, that 2024-2030 has a couple of assumptions, including the
State Highway 119 project which has a funding need of $30 million and a new
maintenance facility that will need to be added somewhere in the district for $50 million,
so that timeframe has a deficit of at least $80 million.

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. Cohen noted that the Financial Plan changes from 2016 encompassed:

6.A

Ms. McKillop said that the Board policy is to have 1.2 times debt service coverage and the
only ways to meet that would be to: reduce debt, increase revenue, or decrease O&M
costs, or a combination of all three. She noted that in the near term RTD is struggling and
the agency needs to think about increasing revenues, decreasing operating and
maintenance costs, and restructuring debt. She remarked that as of now this is the best
estimate of the agency’s position with the information that is available.
Ms. McKillop highlighted that the Long-Range Plan (LRP) challenges would be:









Completion of ongoing projects
State of good repair
Operating and maintenance cost of completed corridors
Sales and use tax volatility
Farebox revenues
Financing capacity and funding constraints
Debt service coverage
Construction and operation of currently unfunded corridors

Director Menten asked when staff would have the revised capital projects list available.
Ms. Scarpino stated that it would be brought forward in conjunction with the final SBP
recommendation in October.
Director Menten asked if Bruce Abel could provide the latest analysis of bus routes with
smaller capacity vehicles. She remarked that RTD should utilize more efficient vehicles
rather than reduce service.
Mr. Abel explained that 70% of RTD’s operating and maintenance costs related to labor.
He stated that in terms of bus size, comparing smaller buses to larger buses was a wash
because of the labor costs.
Director Tisdale asked how the agency will spend $3.36 billion for capital expenditures
over the term of the LRP when FasTracks expenditures are only estimated to be $208
million.

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop explained that there is a similar situation on the FasTracks side. She noted
that from 2024-2040 staff has estimated that there will be a consistent shortfall and
compounding operating and maintenance costs would make the shortfall larger every year.
She stated that one option to balance would be to use the Base system to offset the
shortfall.

6.A

Ms. Cohen explained that the Base system assets are significantly older and, over the
period of the long range plan, RTD will have to replace the existing bus fleet at least once
per vehicle. She added that anything that is replaced will have to be replaced again, and
assets such as Park-n-Rides, technology, and other assets will have to be
replaced/maintained as well. She stated that since FasTracks has newer vehicles and
infrastructure, replacements will not be needed for quite some time.

Ms. McKillop remarked that she did not think the .4% tax would be able to support or
build anything in the future like what it had already done.
Director Sisk asked if staff had taken into consideration the fact that RTD has an
expensive labor base.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff had made some assumptions in regards to the upcoming
CBA negotiations.
Director Sisk added that staff also needs to take into consideration the unforeseen costs
that the agency may have on the existing FasTracks projects.
Ms. McKillop noted that staff had assumed an additional $52 million for construction cots.
She added that there could be something that comes out of a legal process which could
exceed that estimation.
Director Walker asked if there was a specific maintenance item that wears out the fastest.
Mr. Abel explained that there is a maintenance schedule, but it would be difficult to
provide an analysis of the shortest lifespan of a part or component.
Director Walker commented that, when the City and County of Denver was going through
its GO Bond process, street pavement was a significant issue. He asked if RTD would see
a benefit in Denver’s bond initiative that would help lessen RTD’s expenses.
Mr. Abel remarked that he was not sure that any physical improvements would reap
benefits for RTD’s operations.
Director Walker noted that RTD will be in a tough situation for the next couple of years.
He said that he hoped local jurisdictions would recognize RTD’s benefit to their jurisdiction
and would work with RTD on much needed improvements.

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk commented that eventually the Base system is going to have to support the
FasTracks system, and at some point they will need to merge.

6.A

Director Williams inquired whether staff factors in autonomous vehicles and other program
enhancements during planning.

General Manager Genova stated that staff cannot quantify those things at this time,
however, staff does know the cost of maintenance and labor to maintain and deploy
RTD’s current equipment.
Director Williams commented that she wanted to make sure that staff was focusing on
new technology and those types of options were included.
Ms. McKillop explained that the CU Leeds forecast focused on aging populations,
millennials, populations groups that were using transportation, and which age groups were
buying cars.
Director Archuleta asked about the cost break down for the new electric buses on the 16th
Street Mall.
Mr. Abel stated that there would be a significant operations and maintenance savings in
comparison to the acquisition of them.
Director Tisdale inquired if it would be appropriate for the Board to have an executive
session for certain budgetary questions.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said yes and added that there should and will be an
executive session to fill the Board in on staff’s anticipated approaches.
Director Lubow remarked that she was very disappointed. She noted that to her this LRP
shows that there had been a wild divergence between income predictions and realities.
She added that there seems to be some issue with the forecasting and noted that the
economy is not in bad shape. She stated that there are lessons learned that RTD should
take away from this and she would like to hear what they were. She also inquired about
further clarifications in terms of RTD’s challenges.
Ms. McKillop stated that, in relation to on-going projects, the N Line has been a challenge
and the additional funding needed and added to that corridor is a challenge.

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop explained that, until the technology becomes more realistic, it is difficult to
determine how autonomous vehicles would help RTD. She added that, when examining
operating and maintenance costs, staff has to look at other ways to do business in the
future.

6.A

Director Solano asked, in light of the long range financial plan eclipsing the short term
plan, whether the opening of the N Line would be pushed back.
General Manager Genova said that, in regards to the construction schedule, staff is still
working through negotiations and claims with the contractor.

Other Matters
Director Menten commented on the C470 bridge widening project and asked what section
of C470 would be affected.
General Manager Genova stated that it was between County Line and Lincoln.
Director Menten added that she hoped with Rail~Volution coming up that there would be
an honest discussion about the FasTracks promises that were not fulfilled. She said that
she wanted the agency to be up front and honest with the rest of the nation and noted
that the agency is still unsure as to when the rest of the project plans will materialize.
Director Solano commented that RTD is treated like the gold standard across the county.
He said that if that was the case staff should teach everyone what the agency did wrong
instead of what it did right.
General Manager Genova said that staff is very honest and candid in conversations. He
noted that he is honest with everyone about where RTD stands and the agency’s concerns
from stakeholders, whether he is at Rail~Volution, the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA), or the Multi-Exchange (MAX) Program. He added that RTD has
presented at the White House a few times and staff had always presented the good, the
bad, and the ugly.
Director Solano inquired about the letter RTD received from the City of Westminster.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD had received several letters from various
stakeholders, but at this time, the service reductions cited in the letter were not part of
the balanced APE that was just presented.
Director Walker remarked that he hoped people would open up their homes to
Rail~Volution attendees. He stated that most people coming here do not have a large
expense account, and usually, it is the only way that they are able to attend.
Chair Hoy noted that former Director Lasater was in town and wanted to say hello to
everyone. He added that the next two Tuesdays were free since no meetings were

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

III.

6.A

scheduled, and next year, staff is going to try to implement a meeting schedule that is
more considerate and that includes only necessary meetings.
Director Williams remarked that the Denver Regional Mobility & Access Council (DRMAC)
had a quarterly Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) meeting scheduled for September
30th.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m.
Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 22, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

IV.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 15

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, September 12, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Committee Vice Chair Williams

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Williams called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:24 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:10 PM
4:54 PM
5:12 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:28 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:14 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District G
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:21 PM
5:23 PM
5:34 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:19 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:08 PM
Packet Pg. 16

6.B

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Ivonne Aranda, Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes,
Martha Bembry, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Chuck Culig, Nate Currey, Joey Davidson,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, Eric
Farrington, Bret Feddersen, David Genova, Bob Grado, Dawn Greco,
Svetlana Grechka, Kim Heldman, Ali Imansepahi, Jeff Kay, Mitch
Kuharski, Russ Larson, Samantha Loucks, Doug MacLeod, Brian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Mike Meader, Michael
Millage, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Walter Pierce, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jeri Torsak,
Tanzania Trout, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Doug Brockwell, William Gross, Tom Peterson, Dave Sachs, R. Paul
Williamson, Gary Van Dorn, 9News

B. Recommended Actions
Committee Vice Chair Williams stated that there were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

•

North Metro - N Line Operation 9 12 17
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
introduced the team that has been working on North Line (North Metro)
operations. He stated that the agency is in the process of the construction
of the North Metro Rail line from Denver Union Station out to 124th Avenue
and then beyond. He said that back in 2015, the agency went to the Board
to discuss how they wanted to operate North Metro and decided would
handle operations: RTD, Denver Transit Partners (DTP), or a third party. DTP
already had operations in their contract on the Eagle P3 project as an option
and that, if the agency wanted to exercise the option, the agency would
have to negotiate the price. He further stated that the agency would need
DTP to continue to do vehicle maintenance and dispatching to Denver Union
Station, where all the corridoes tie in, and that BNSF and Amtrak should be
handled by one dispatcher.
He said that the Board previously authorized additional funds to cover
expansion of the facility and the fleet that the agency was putting into the
North Metro. He further stated that, based on the agency’s financing
strategy, all the agency could do based on the IRS ranks is a ten year. He
said the agency finished those estimates, then finalized the scope of the
project and the scope of the vehicle operations, then went forward, and in
Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson participated via phone.

6.B

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, spoke about
the assumptions that the agency used in the analysis. He said that one of
the items the agency reviewed was dispatching. He stated that the agency
wanted one area to control the movement of all trains and that under the
RTD option the agency would have to negotiate that option with DTP, but
under DTP option, DTP was already responsible for moving the trains. He
said that for vehicle maintenance DTP is currently responsible for the
agency’s North Metro Rail Line vehicles and that there are already contracts
through 2044. He stated that RTD could mobilize in 24 months, whereas
DTP could mobilize in 18 months because they would already have the
facility, the training department, and some of the vehicles placed to help put
the agency in action.
Mr. Emmons stated that, the agency would procure a rescue train in the
RTD option because the Skyway bridge is one of the longest bridges in the
state, and that the agency would need be proactive to be able to rescue a
train from the bridge. He stated that, under the RTD option, RTD would have
to acquire and renovate a facility where the agency could keep spare parts,
the agency’s maintenance of way employees, and large equipment. He
added that, DTP option would already have the Commuter Rail Maintenance
Facility (CRMF).
Mr. Emmons said that, for the 711 building, the agency would need a
location where the agency can house staff and would also need to have a
location for the agency’s operators. He said that the 711 building, located
by Coors Field, has a bay 711 for the operators to be housed between the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) and Denver Union Station.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the Board would be given cost estimates at a
future committee meeting and that the costs associated with the North
Metro operation would be rolled into the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the
Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
Mr. Emmons stated that the RTD rollout would take 24 months because
there are many elements the agency is going to have to prepare, such as the
system testing training of operators and training of the employees involved
with the North Metro. He said the agency would have to be prepared and
conduct inspections during the systems integration. He stated that the
Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

2017 the formal direction was to develop an option B. He said the agency
was seeing stuff from Denver Transporters and the option B basically was
what would happen if RTD would go forward with it. He stated that the
agency received estimates from DTP and performed an Internal Cost
Estimate (ICE) to compare RTD numbers. He stated that the agency looked
at the outside industry to get a trend around the United States. Then the
agency went through a very detailed cost comparison between what RTD
does, what DTP would do, and how the agency would go forward.

6.B

He also said the agency would have to work on the run board and make sure
the agency would have the integration to work interlaced vehicles between
existing systems. He added that the agency would have to purchase or
prepare facilities spare parts, and support vehicles and would also need to
coordinate between DTO and DTP. He said that the 24 months is broken
down into four quarters. He said the first quarter would be used to put
together a transition team and refine the mission’s critical items. He said
that in the second, third, and fourth quarters, RTD would incrementally hire
additional staff to operate the line. He noted the talented pool of existing
RTD employees who could provide expertise. He also noted some of the
challenges with respect to interagency coordination.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that these challenges would be the same if the
agency brought in a third party. He added that a lot of the value that RTD
would bring to the table would also be challenges for a third party. He said
that a third party would not have the institutional knowledge. He stated that
when the agency looked at a third party and DTP, it became pretty apparent
that a third party would have a lot more challenges than RTD for establishing
a commuter rail operation. He said that the agency basically narrowed the
choice down to DTP or RTD. He noted that as of right now the staff is
strongly considering a recommendation for RTD to operate the line but noted
can change as the agency finalizes the evaluations. He said that he would
like to hear the Board’s pros and cons on October 3, 2017. He said that the
agency is looking at a 10-year contract for the DTP option or a 20-25 year
forecast for the RTD option. He stated that the staff would come back to
the Board for approval for the SBP and APE, which then would cover
authorization to go forward on option A or B. He noted that RTD staff would
continue to present to the Board regardless of which operator is selected.
Director Folska thanked staff for the overview. She asked Rolf Asphaug,
General Counsel, if the agency has resolved the challenges with DTP.
Mr. Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that the dispute resolution process
with DTP is still ongoing.
Director Folska asked if RTD would be taking over North Metro operation in
29 years.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that that is correct, RTD’s contract with DTP
expires in 29 years. He said that the agency may re-extend it, may bring
somebody else in, or may take it over.
Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

agency would have to hire a total of 121 full time employees and prepare
and have in place a new starts matrix, which is a Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) requirement.

6.B

Director Folska asked if the agency could build its knowledge base now with
the agency’s own people.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that that is correct.
Director Folska noted that that would be her preference.

Mr. Stopplecamp responded that it would be diesel and the agency would
use it to maintain the track on a regular basis. He stated that the agency
would need a piece of equipment strong enough to pull other vehicles. He
said the agency’s goal would be to use it for rescue and for maintenance.
Director Archuleta stated that RTD would need 121 more employees to staff
the R line. He asked how the agency would go about getting these new
employees especially considering the ongoing operator shortage.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that it would be a challenge but whichever entity is
selected to operate the line would also need 121 operators and maintainers.
He said it is a challenge to find the right people and that is why it did not go
as pro or con because the agency feels like it would be an issue for anyone,
but knowing about it ahead of time, recruiting efforts can start early. He
added that one of the positions the agency wants to bring in upfront is the
track Overhead Catenary System(OCS) signal supervisors. He said they can
come on board to learn the system as the agency goes through on the
construction and then they would be responsible for recruiting others.
Director Archuleta inquired about recruiting. He asked how the agency is
doing with the union and if the agency is going to be raising the wages. He
asked if the agency would suspend checks for marijuana use.
Bruce Abel, Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, stated that the agency’s drug and alcohol program gets sent to
the agency, compliments of the Federal Transit Administration (FRA) and the
US Department of Transportation. He further stated that it is not anything
that is under the agency’s control and, while he does not have a crystal ball,
he would not anticipate that the agency should expect any modification from
the federal level and the drug and alcohol arena in the transportation
business. He added that in the last two years the agency has implemented
split run bonuses of $2 an hour, provided bonuses for individuals to take on
work in addition to their mid-work for $2 an hour more, and raised bus and
rail operators’ wages by $1 an hour. He added that as the Board knows, the
Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom inquired about the rescue train. He asked if staff could
describe it in a little more detail. He asked if it would be a 2 or 3-unit train, if
it would be diesel so that it can operate when there is no electricity, and if it
would sit without being used.

6.B

agency will be going into labor negotiations with the union for a contract
that expires February 28, 2018 and the agency will see what the outcome
of those negotiations will be as it relates to any additional adjustments in the
compensation package.

Director Lubow inquired about the startup time. She states that the agency’s
start up time is estimated at 24 months, whereas the contractor would be
18 months. She asked whether that meant that, if the agency operated the
line, the agency would be six months later starting up than the contractor.
Mr. Emmons stated that the agency put together a schedule and is looking
at the requirements to get this operation up and going. He said that currently
the best estimate is 24 months for on the schedule that the agency has with
the different items such as the building a matrix, training and getting the
facilities ready.
Director Lubow asked if that meant if the Board chose this option people
would be angry at the agency for six more months.
Mr. Abel stated that, under the DTP/DTO option, DTP/DTO would need to
mobilize 18 months prior to anticipate it opening, though the agency would
need to mobilize 24 months prior to anticipate it opening. He said that that
the opening would not be delayed by 6 months.
Director Lubow asked whether an outside contractor would need a rescue
train.
Mr. Emmons stated that it would be their option.
Director Lubow asked if the agency would expect them to have one for the
same reasons the agency would want one.
General Manager Genova, stated that the agency can put the rescue train in
the scope of work though it would drive up the cost.
Director Lubow stated that she feels the train would be needed. She asked
about the level of challenge of interfacing with DTP.
Mr. Emmons stated that there would be some challenges but that he thinks
the agency can work through all of those.
Director Sisk asked whether there would be additional cost over and above
that which is budgeted.
Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel remarked that, if the Board were to relax its drug testing policy the
Federal Transit Administration bank account would go to zero.

6.B

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that for the security for the system, the agency
provides the second operator right now on the University of Colorado A line
and the B line and the agency will be doing the G line. He further stated that
those are paid for out of RTD and the agency would be doing the same thing
on North Metro. He added that that number comes out because it is going to
be the same cost whether DTP or RTD runs the system.

Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer
and Assistant General Manager of Finance and Administration, will go into
more detail as the agency goes forward but the money is programmed under
Company 3 and the APE, and, if there is a short fall, the money comes from
the Base System.
He said the agency’s goal would be not to bring money from the Base
System but does require $ 32.7 million from the Base System.
Director Sisk asked if that $32.7 million is the same $30 million that was
going to go into the SH119 BRT project.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that it is the same value.
Director Sisk stated that he has real concern about the SH119 project.
Ms. McKillop stated that the agency has put an estimate in the APE that
would cover either scenario at this time. She said that this would not add
additional dollars to the APE any additional transfer from the Base System
above the $32.7 million dollars.
Director Solano asked, within this timeframe, when would Regional Rail
Partners (RRP) hand over to DTP in this process.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that RRP will hand over to whoever the agency
decides will operate the system during the integrated testing, which is the
last phrase of the construction.
Director Solano asked if the agency has rectified the issue on the
engineering design conflict between RTD and RRP.
Mr. Stopplecamp said no, not at that time.
Director Solano asked if the conflict would be handled.

Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk asked if those monies would come from FasTracks or the Base
System.

6.B

Mr. Stopplecamp said that at this time the agency has estimates and has
been working with RRP to refine their numbers but is still working on that at
this time.
Director Solano asked if DTP is primarily nonunion.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that they do fall under SMART, so their
operators are represented by the union.

Mr. Stopplecamp said that the contract operators fall under the union.
Director Francone stated that it seems to her that one of the beauties of the
University of Colorado A line contract with DTP was the fact that it was a
third party and it reduced the risk to this agency as well as to the taxpayers.
She asked if that a consideration when the agency is considering whether or
not RTD will assume the build design and operation of this as opposed to
DTP.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that on this project the agency will not go forward
on the design build, that has already been done by RRP. He added the
agency will give a formal recommendation to the Board on October 3rd.
Director Francone asked about the benefits and the downsides of having one
operator over the other.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that one of the benefits to having operations all
under DTP is the agency has one operator, and one contractor for Denver
Union Station and the commuter rail maintenance facility.
Director Tisdale said his understanding is that the agency should have a
completed decision matrix on or before October 3rd.
Mr. Abel stated that staff was presenting the frame work for the analysis
and will present the proposal in greater detail on October 3rd.
Director Tisdale asked if the agency will have further discussion on the
October 17 on the annual program evaluation process and then have a final
vote on October 24th.
Mr. Abel said that that is correct. He said, as Ms. McKillop indicated from a
financial prospective, there has been an assumption made, the agency
believes that that assumption will accommodate an alternative, but the final
runs will be done in October.
Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano asked if the contractors are under the union.

6.B

Director Tisdale asked whether the agency will have an opportunity to have
a more fulsome answer to the concerns that were expressed by Director
Sisk on the impact to BRT on SH119.
Mr. Abel said that he suggests that the agency will have an opportunity to
have a better discussion on the financial impact to SH119.

Mr. Stopplecamp said yes, those are the only 12 vehicles needed for the
North Metro corridor.
Director Menten asked about the 711 building. She asked if the agency has
the figures on the rehab or any of the requirements.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the agency has looked at the 711 building and it
is a three-bay building. He stated that the agency is currently putting TIC in
one bay and the treasury in the second bay. He further stated that the
agency has done some estimates which will be numbers in October.
Director Menten asked whether the new start requirements would fall on
RTD, regardless or on the contractor.
Mr. Stopplecamp said the task would fall on whoever is operating the line.
He said if it falls to DTP, they would update their documents, and RTD
would also have and generate those documents.
Director Menten asked for breakdown of time, labor, and money required.
Lindsey Smith, FasTracks Public Information Specialist, stated that it is
projected to be 10,000 riders a day.
Director Menten stated she did not see much after that initial discussion
about third parties. She stated that she wonders about a third party because
the agency has challenges with DTP and, if the agency looked at a third
party, perhaps there might be some alternatives.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the agency did look at a DTP option, a third party
option, and an RTD option, and the pros and cons associated. He said if the
agency goes with the DTP option, the agency can always go out on the
street. He stated that he challenges for a third party would be even greater
than our own challenges. He further added that the agency has a great staff
infrastructure they only need to bring in the operating side.

Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked whether the 12 vehicles that are currently operated
by the agency are the only ones needed in the near term.

6.B

Director Menten stated that her initial thought is that she has more faith in
the private sector in having a little more flexibility and opportunities.
Mr. Stopplecamp asked if she could define what she means by flexibility.
Director Menten said the private sector has a variety of different options in
advertising, and partnering.

Director Anderson stated that her concerns are for duplications of service
and she added that but seems to her the agency would be duplicating the
mechanical equipment that the agency needs to take care of the trains and
keep them in a state of good repair. She said she is also concerned over the
priorities for tracking, how that would work, and how that would be
negotiated.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that when talking about bay one, duplication of
maintenance and equipment, the agency is referencing a building that RTD
owns and that is going to be housing the operator and administrative staff.
He stated that it is not a bay to maintain the equipment. He further stated
that currently the agency is under contract with DTP to maintain the fleet of
12 vehicles for the next 29 years. He added that the operator that is
selected will have to buy additional high rail equipment, because RTD cannot
operate with what has. He said is true for the Southeast Rail Extension. He
said Mr. Emmons and the team are picking up new maintainers and more
pieces of high rail equipment. He said the agency would add miles to track
and would still need to add equipment, and whether RTD operates it or DTP,
it is still needed. He said that it is important to get the same dispatcher
working the throat that takes care of the Eagle project, North Metro, BNSF,
and Amtrak. He added that those dispatchers now work that whole throat to
be sure that everybody gets a fair shake coming into the station.
Director Anderson stated that she appreciates the matrix the agency went
through on making the decision and she thinks that it is certainly well
thought out and helps the Board get to a decision. She added that she is
strongly in favor of a zero tolerance drug use policy.
Director Folska stated that she wanted to echo Director Anderson’s
comments on the drug use policy. She said that, to Director Sisk’s point, she
does not really care about SH119, because she thinks it is a great idea, but
it feels more to her like a bait and switch for the Northwest Line. She added
that she thinks that was what the NAMS study was all about. She said that
she is concerned about is finishing FasTracks sooner rather than later and
the Board should be making sure that voters get what they voted for first.
Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Stopplecamp said the selectee would be handling operations and should
not be financing anything, but the agency will follow up on that.

6.B

•

DUS Request for Information (RFI) 9 12 17
Mr. Abel stated the agency received a proposal from Greyhound on the
potential use of Denver Union Station as a stopping point for their services
in Denver Metro area. He further stated that, subsequent to that, the agency
also received an inquiry from Ramblin Express. He said that the agency does
not have a policy at this time for utilization of Denver Union Station. He said
that Request for Interest (RFI) has been prepared that the agency will be
sending out to the transportation community. The RFI is the agency’s
attempt to gage the level of interest as well as ask some basic questions of
the industry He added that the process that the agency has laid out is to
send an RFI out into the industry.
Mr. Abel stated that based on the response the agency will make a
determination on what the next steps would be, potentially the preparation
of a Request for Proposals, broader public input from the affected areas as
to the potential for use of Union Station by more than the existing carries,
and the determination of how to proceed for actually making Union Station
available for the carriers use.
Director Folska said she has been so excited for the agency to take the
highest and best use of the agency’s assets, especially the land. She stated
the agency is struggling financially. She asked about the lease terms for the
Denver Union station.
Mr. Asphaug said he would take a look at that.
Director Folska said that she thinks the RFI is very exciting. She asked if the
Bustang gives the agency any.
Mr. Abel stated that at this point in time there are no funds generated from
Bustang’s use of Union Station.
Director Folska said that she could see how Bustang could be an exception
because it is operated by the government rather than a private entity. She
added that she loves Greyhound but they would have to pay.
Director Lubow stated that she was intrigued that at present third parties do
not pay the agency to use Union Station. She asked the thinking behind that
decision.
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy stated the agency is laying out a path forward to a decision point.
He said that he thinks that the operator selected will probably be invisible to
the passenger. He said as the agency goes forward his thoughts are going to
be focused on cost.

6.B

Mr. Abel said that the third parties that use Union Station are public
partners, but agency can look at the demand for use of the facility and
determine how the agency can best achieve a multimodal transportation
hub.

Mr. Abel said that Greyhound would have to explain how they would
accommodate that function knowing they cannot do it at Union Station. He
added that those are the kinds of questions that the agency will ask as part
of RFI.
Director Broom asked if there are synergies for the traveling public for
combining the bus station as opposed to having a second Greyhound bus
station. He asked what happens if the agency has to have TSA deal with
intercity buses or what would happen to old Greyhound station if they were
to lease one or two gates in Union Station.
Mr. Abel said that many parties in the city believe that the western
expansion of the Central Business District (CBD) is in many cases blocked by
the existing Greyhound terminal. He said there are many parties in the
community that would like to see the terminal redeveloped to a higher use
from a land-use perspective as opposed to a transportation perspective. He
added that there are very real pros from a synergy prospective, to expanding
our multimodal footprint to enable people to transfer from intercity buses to
local buses to light rail to commuter rail to the airport. He said the agency
would have to balance those issues and evaluate pros and cons.
Director Francone inquired if there some synergies with respect package
handling.
Mr. Abel said it is certainly something worth looking at. He added that the
agency does have that legal authority and used to have a very active
package delivery service.
Director Anderson said that she thinks that this is a great idea because it
offers an opportunity for many people. She stated that it offers opportunity
during bad weather, during emergencies, even during crowded periods. She
added that if a constituent cannot get one form of transportation, they can
always get another.
Director Tisdale said could use the RFI to determine whether to monetize the
use of Union Station.
Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow inquired how private operators might access the bathroom
facilities.

6.B

• ADA Expert Second Annual Report

Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, stated that the
agency did see improvement from 2015 to 2016. She said that there was a
24 % decrease in the number of pass ups and that shows that the drivers
are doing what they are supposed to do. She added that the drivers are
doing everything they can do to try to accommodate people with mobility
devices.
Committee Chair Williams stated that the agency did take one of the buses
out the other day with a number of members of the Transit and Accessibility
Task Force and said it was a nice ride. She added that three people in wheel
chairs and a person with a walker were all accommodated.
Director Folska asked who the expert was.
Mr. Abel remarked the expert is Elizabeth “Buffy” Ellis, an employee of KFH
Group Inc.
Director Menten said complaints increased from 2015. She added that in all
it does not sound like the agency receives a lot of complaints compared to
the.
Ms. Conover said that many complaints came from the agency’s policy of
allowing persons with mobility devices to board first.
Director Menten said that she does hear from constituents who are
frustrated with the other patrons blocking the aisle and doing things that
would seem to just be inconsiderate.
Ms. Conover said that one of the things the agency is doing with the
refresher training this year with the operators is giving them tips and
pointers on how they can address the passengers when they pull up to a
stop, especially when they pull up to a busy stop and everybody tries to
rush the door.

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel stated that serval years ago the agency entered a consent decree
with the disability community regarding the use of the securement area on
board fixed route buses. He further added that, as part of that agreement,
the agency agreed to bring on an ADA expert who would come in
periodically to assess whether the agency has been complying with the
consent decree and other factors. He said that the agency received good
grade from the ADA expert. And noted the report emphasized the agency’s
willingness to modify the design of its 40 foot buses.

6.B

Director Menten stated that she is stressed about how much of a delay it
creates for everybody. She said of the report it talks about the replacement
of the 3900 series buses. She asked, based on the agency’s current
financial situation and the limits on borrowing, whether the replacement can
take place in 2020.

Director Menten said that she had one possible change to the agency’s code
of conduct regrading impeding access onto the bus by persons with mobility
devices.
Director Solano said that he is just curious if there is information in this
document that addresses service animals.
Ms. Conover said that information on service animals is one of the things the
agency is going to include in the refresher training this year.
Director Solano asked if service animals were an element of the consent
decree.
Ms. Conover remarked that no, it was not.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 2nd Quarter 2017
Mr. Abel gave an overview of the report and asked the Directors if they have
any comments.

• Access-a-Ride/Cab 2nd Quarter Update - 2017
Mr. Abel said he was pleased to report that the number of trips impacted
due to returned manifest in the first quarter was 2,000 in the month of
January, 2,000 in the month of February, 1,400 in the month of March, and
in the second quarter those numbers dropped to 800 in April, 250 in May,
and 150 in June. He said that allowing the contractors to rebid improved
their wages to improve their ability to hire drivers and on time performance.

• Special Services Report 2nd Qtr 2017
• 2017 2nd Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2017 2nd Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
Mr. Abel gave an overview of these reports and asked the Directors if they
have any comments.

Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel stated that the agency’s fleet replacement plan has been extended
from that which was in place when this study was done.

6.B

• Second Quarter - April 1 through June 30, 2017
Bob Grado, Transit Police Chief, stated that the fare enforcement report was
presented in a new format.
Director Folska said that 1,122 is an interesting number. She asked what is
the percentage on fare evasion.

Director Folska said that when she was first elected the rate was estimated
to be about 3.
General Manager Genova said that was the agency’s light rail fare evasion
rates but that number that Chief Grado gave is the commuter rail fare
evasion rate. He added that the agency breaks light rail and commuter rail
down separately because the agency has a different amount of security
resources on the different lines. He said the agency is able to do a lot more
inspection on the commuter rail line.
Director Folska asked to be reminded of the procedures when officers find
people who are evading a fare.
Chief Grado said that the first infraction results in a warning, and the
second, third, and fourth time they are fined. He added that the fine in
Denver county is $86.50 and $106.50 in other counties. He further added
that the fine structure stays the same throughout that process, but once a
person hits that fourth mark, the agency will suspend them from service.
Director Folska inquired on how long they would be suspended for.
Mr. Grado said 30, 90 or 120 depending on how many offenses they have.
Director Francone asked for an explanation of the distinction between the
fare task force and the commuter rail enforcement numbers.
Chief Grado stated the task force is a group of 10 officers who work
primarily during day time and swing shift hours. He added that the agency
does not pull them off for any other calls for service and the officers have a
lot more visibility. He further added that the agency is doing a more
aggressive fare enforcement program on one of the other lines where the
agency has seen some issues recently. He said that this task force can move
around if necessary.

Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Grado said it 0.14 % for commuter rail and added that the rate actually
went down in the second quarter.

6.B

Mr. Grado said the agency does that every month. He stated that the
agency has recently contracted with the city of Denver police department
crime analysis to helps the agency on a part time basis and help compel
these stats to make sure the agency is getting good numbers. He said that
the early results have been very encouraging. He stated that the agency
doing fare enforcement tends to drive a lot of the other quality of life issues
off the system.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the numbers for the patrons
without fares and asked if the agency is paying Denver to help with security.
Chief Grado said the agency does pay and it is part of the off-duty program.
Mr. Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security, and Asset Management, stated that, based on data, the agency
has is able to assign officers to those lines or those platforms at specific
times of the day to mitigate some of these things that are happening. He
added that there are no additional funds being spent.
Director Menten ask if the agency is paying Denver for their analysis.
Chief Grado stated that the agency pays for the analysis using budgeted
dollars.
Director Solana stated that he is looking at total complaints in the 2016 and
noted 2017 is catching up. He states he received two calls the previous
evening regrading that a bus did not show because of the Bronco game.
Committee Chair Williams stated that she does not know if Director Solano’s
question falls under safety and security. She added that that was a valid
question and asked if he could hold on to that.
Director Tisdale asked if RTD receives the revenue whenever a citation is
issued or if the city where the citation was issued receives that fine.
Chief Grado stated that the city receives the fine.
Director Solano stated that, when people have to wait for a bus that does
not show, it is a safety issue.
Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Francone stated that she is delighted to see transit police present on
the platforms and on the train and it makes her feel safer. She asked if the
agency reports out crime statistics or the number of incidents of violence
reported at some point during the year. She added that she is seeing more
incidents happening at the stations.

6.B

Mr. Abel stated that the agency has very real operator shortages and that an
operator called off. He said due to the requirements of all of the additional
services the agency did not have any extra operators for the last evenings
Broncos game. He said an apology would be issued to this constituent.

Director Anderson stated she was very impressed with the numbers. She
added it appears that fare evasion rates are going down on commuter rail as
people learn to ride. She said she knows that commuter rail is checked and
she knows that people respond when there is enforcement there.

•

Lost Service Hours Update 9 12 17
Mr. Abel stated that in August of 2017, the agency dropped 7,074 hours of
service between either delayed pull outs or missed trips, compared to 80
hours of service dropped in August of 2016. He says the agency will
continue to experience various challenges with its operator head count. He
said the agency asks for volunteers amongst the operators to work on one
of their days off and, absent the ability to secure enough volunteers, the
agency begins at the bottom of the seniority list and communicates to those
employees who will be required to work on one of their days off.
Mr. Abel states that the chart indicates the degree to which the operators
have been mandated since the agency has been formally tracking this back
in 2015. He said the number of mandates in 2016 is higher than 2015, and
2017 is higher than 2016. He added that the agency has been mandating far
more than it would like amongst existing employees. He said the agency
hires charter buses to the extent possible. He stated that staff continues to
work with HR to increase the number of operators into training. He said that
as the agency mandates more people to work on their days off, people find
the to be a less appealing in the current job market. He said the agency will
try to make working conditions better in an attempt to improve retention.
Director Solano asked why the agency is putting priority on sporting events
and not on the constituents.
Mr. Abel stated the agency’s sporting event riders are constituents as well,
but they are a different market segment than the agency’s commuters. He
further added that the agency makes commitments in both areas to our
customers.
Director Solano asked if it is true that the people going to the games ride for
free.

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska stated that incidents when people cannot get to work or
pickup their children because the agency is taking people to a Broncos game
are not okay.

6.B

Mr. Abel remarked that it is not true as long as the agency’s bus operators
and fare enforcement employees are doing their jobs.

Mr. Abel stated that the agency has ticket sellers or street supervisors at the
Park-n-Rides and they will sell a round trip fare then the customer will board
the bus. He said that the operator does not check fares because there is a
ticket seller and the return trip is assumed. He added that on light rail the
agency has fare checks at Mile High Station and Decatur/Federal. He said at
Mile High Station the turnstiles are used for Broncos games and other
sporting events and no one can get in or out of the station without fare.
Director Solano said he think it is a double standard.
Chair Hoy stated that as he got on the Broncos Ride with thousands of other
people at the Wagon Road Park-n-Ride, the buses were crammed and
everyone paid full fare. He added that when the agency hires those buses
from out of state, those buses comes with a driver.
Director Tisdale said he took a light rail to the first preseason Broncos game
and was very impressed by the system. He added that in the one time where
he knew everybody by had paid to ride.
Director Broom asked if agency has explored hiring head hunter firms to find
drivers.
Mr. Abel stated that he does not know that agency has looked at using a
head hunter firm but said the agency certainly put that on the table.
Director Anderson stated that her community is full of hard-working people
that use RTD to go to work and there are probably even more people in her
community who look at RTD to go to ball games. She says she does not
think the agency should discriminate against the constituents, and all of
agency’s constituents are important. She said that she thinks that agency
has to do everything in its power to find a way to increase the number of
operators. She added that she knows the agency’s operators are working
many long hours. She further added that she appreciates what staff has
done to minimize the effects of split shifts.
Committee Chair Williams stated that she also rode the light rail from the
Broncos game with two young men who were developmentally disabled. She
said that they were absolutely thrilled about being able to take the train and
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano stated that he has been on a lot of the buses and nobody is
checking fares. He added that the trains are jammed full and that on the
light rail he has never seen anybody checking fare.

6.B

D.

Other Matters
General Manager Genova stated that he wanted to provide the Board with
an update on the Federal Road Administration (FRA) and Public Utilities
Commission (CPUC) update on the University of Colorado A Line, the B Line,
and the G Line. He said that the agency. He stated the agency recently
applied for a permanent waiver for the University of Colorado A line and for
the B line. He said that one of the reasons they are suggesting this
permanent type of a waiver is because of the method of technology that the
agency is using on the grade crossing is different and there is more of an
extended buffer time than with the agency’s wireless activation system in
combination with the positive train control system. He said that the FRA has
advised seeking a permanent waiver for these lines. He said it is very
common for the FRA to issue five-year waivers and more indefinite waivers
on different types of things. He added that a permanent type of waiver has
nothing to do with safety and the agency will still operate a very safe
system. He added that the waiver provides a certain regulatory relief from
certain requirements and will allow the agency to seek quiet zone approvals.
He stated for that the G line, the agency has submitted a petition for
omission to allow final testing on the G line. He said the agency has
completed that testing that both the FRA and PUC authorized and that
testing went very well.
General Manager Genova stated that the agency has submitted a grade
crossing amendment application for three crossings per the PUC’s request.
He stated that the timing on the PUC process is unclear. He said that other
parties are noticed when the agency submits an amendment. He added that
extensive, the PUC may begin more of a hearing process if the comments
received are than a docket process. He said that the agency is working
closely with both the City of Aurora and the City County of Denver on these
issues to gain as much support as much as possible. He stated that and the
PUC is not involved. He said the agency has also filed amendments for all of
the G Line crossings to seek PUC’s permission to do the final testing and the
earliest those might get set for the docket would be the end of September or
early October since it is new, the agency is expecting that we will get some
questions around that.
Director Menten asked if the agency added in the extra safely step the
agency may get in the way with this permanent waiver.
General Manager Genova stated that the FRA does issue waivers on a longterm basis for a variety of different reasons and operations. He added that
the waiver is FRA’s suggestion for how they think we can best approach it
based on our system design.
Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

told her all about it even though she did not tell them she had anything to do
with RTD. She added that there are pros and cons to every situation.

6.B

Director Menten asked what three crossings are being proposed for A Line
and to see how commission reacts.

Director Menten asked which the parties are noticed.
Mr. Genova stated that the city in the jurisdiction in which the crossing is
located, the adjacent railroads that are a part of the crossings, which
property owners that are adjacent to that particular crossing are all noticed.
He added that the speed of the process is determined by the number of
comments received.
Director Menten asked the if the G line was not in testing right now because
the agency has to wait for a second approval.
General Manager Genova stated that that is correct.
Director Menten asked whether the agency would refrain from issuing an
estimated opening date.
General Manager Genova stated that that is correct because of the timing of
the approvals from FRA and the PUC.
Director Francone asked if a permanent waiver would it satisfy the dispute
with DTP or DTO.
General Manager Genova stated that he does not think the claim from DTP
will go away. He said that the agency is continuing to work through that
process with them in terms on contract compliance. He added that he does
not see a permanent waiver as being as issue with contract compliance as
long as the agency gets through the grade crossing issues.
Director Walker asked if the FRA has confidence in the performance in the
operation even though it does not perform as intended.
General Manager Genova stated that it means that the FRA is confident that
the system is working as designed and working safely. He further stated
that the reason for the waiver would be because the agency’s system design
Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova stated that the three crossings are Dahlia, Steel,
and Sable, which the agency submitted three crossings is because a volume
issue with the PUC. He stated that what happens with the amendments is
fairly typical in the PUC process. He further stated that it is very common
that the agency gets an amendment after the agency is fully billed to tie up
any minor changes.

6.B

is not a typical, conventional design that their regulations are used to dealing
with.

General Manager Genova said yes, the agency has submitted lots of
documentation and a lot of different variety of forms but one of the recent
pieces has been the grade crossing criteria document that the agency has
been talking about with the FRA now for a number of months. Once the
agency gets through that piece and they are satisfied that it is working as
the agency described it in the design then they should be willing to look
forward with that.
Director Walker stated that he gets to work with federal agencies and they
are sticklers about what they do. He added that he thinks it is a good sign
that they are willing to expand on their concept of what is acceptable. He
said his experience with notification is that it is not just the number of
comments that the agency risk but the diversity of those comments. He
further added that if they receive a bunch of comments about the same
issues, those often are addressed rather quickly, but if they receive
comments on a wide variety of issues that is what slows down the process.
Director Anderson stated that this sounds like good news to her. She said
that RTD’s system is different from any other system in the United States
and a permanent wavier would be good news.
Director Francone asked the agency have any update on the $29 million
refund from the federal government.
Ms. McKillop said the agency’s lobbyists have been working on that. She
further stated that a draft of the bill defined what a “cohort” was and that
the issue has been that a “cohort” is anybody that has ever applied for a
loan.
Director Francone stated the Colorado delegation is on board and most
anxious to help.
Ms. McKillop said right now, because of the continuing resolution, nothing is
moving forward. She added that as that language starts to move forward
the agency will keep the Board updated.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 17, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 7:50 p.m.
Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker said that the system still performs safely, it still functions,
just a little differently from what the agency intended.

6.B

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 37

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, September 12, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 8:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

7:51 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:51 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:51 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:51 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:59 PM
8:04 PM
7:51 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:51 PM
Packet Pg. 38

6.C

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Ivonne Aranda, Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes,
Martha Bembry, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Chuck Culig, Nate Currey, Joey Davidson,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, Eric
Farrington, Brett Feddersen, David Genova, Bob Grado, Dawn Greco,
Svetlana Grechka, Kim Heldman, Ali Imansepahi, Jeff Kay, Mitch
Kuharski, Russ Larson, Samantha Loucks, Doug MacLeod, Brian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Mike Meader, Michael
Millage, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Walter Pierce, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jeri Torsak,
Tanzania Trout, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Doug Brockwell, William Gross, Tom Peterson, Dave Sachs, R. Paul
Williamson, Gary Van Dorn, 9News

B. Recommended Actions

• Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
approve a budget transfer from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital
project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services expense
budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the
replacement of the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted
rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance & Administration, stated that staff is
asking the Board to combine three different funding pieces
together for a larger project.
Director Solano asked what the Garage Concentrator project
was for.

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, and Folska were absent.

6.C

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• ITS Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC
(Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract
(Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000
over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis.
Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets of the projects
on which the work is performed.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop commented that this action item is for a work
order contract which will be administered on an as-needed,
work order basis. She added that the preferred vendor based
on the project criteria and designs was Apex Design, PC.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

ABSENT:

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop explained that, when buses enter RTD’s garages,
they can now communicate and download or upload
information for staff to use. She noted that the concentrators
were upgraded in-house instead of using a contractor which
resulted in additional savings.

6.C

• Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to exercise the final option year and increase the
contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central
Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares
through April 15, 2019.
Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 26,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Ms. McKillop commented that RTD currently has a contract
with Central Parking for large events and this is extension
would be the last year of the contract. She noted that with
the extension, the end of the contract would be pushed out to
April 15, 2019. She added that if it was deemed that RTD
still needed parking ticket sellers at the end of the contract, a
new Request for Proposal (RFP) would be issued.
Director Francone noted that the contract amount increased
almost $30,000 from 2016 and asked what constituted the
increase.
Ms. McKillop explained that most likely Central Parking would
not bill up the full amount as they only billed based on ticket
sales and other factors, but $172,000 was the remaining
amount left on the contract.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler,
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• 2018 Budget Update
Ms. McKillop said that in the consideration of time, staff would discuss a
few things in the budget that were slightly different than the Strategic
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Motion:

6.C

Budget Plan (SBP). She added that staff will review the revenue from sales
and use taxes, but will assume that there will not be any revenue from retail
marijuana for 2018 at this time. She further added that this time of year is
usually when staff tends to lock in fuel rates, but with the hurricanes in
Florida and Texas, they are going to wait until production in those areas pick
up again. She noted that staff had been reviewing the budget from an
administrative stand point and they want to better tie in the various budgets
that drive RTD’s service and core mission allocations.

Ms. McKillop explained that typically staff does not post the draft budget
until it is approved, however, they can work with marketing to
accommodate the request.
Director Francone asked if the union negotiations would be reflected in 2017
or 2018’s budget.
General Manager Genova stated that staff has already begun to estimate
accommodations that will go into effect in 2018.
Committee Chair Menten said that the proposed R Line changes are
substantial, and asked what the savings would amount to.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the savings would equal $3.6 million, but that
figure was not reflected in the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) or Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) last month. She also added that it is not yet reflected in
the 2018 budget at this time because the service change still has to go
through the public process and the proposed cuts might change.

• Quarterly Performance Report
Ms. McKillop explained that staff will have a brief overview and noted that
the document was included in the packet.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
commented that the Board Report was self-explanatory. She commented
that on-time performance improved in the second quarter over the first, and
the average cycle time in response to customer complaints was slightly
higher due to a staffing vacancy. She noted that operating revenue is up on
a year to date basis, but RTD is still not meeting the goal. She added that
bus operator vacancies are up and are higher than they were in the first
quarter.
Committee Chair Menten asked that the Board receive a report that breaks
down ridership by line.
Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Tisdale commented that the draft budget should be included on
RTD’s website for better transparency.

6.C

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, explained that one of the major challenges this year has
been the allocation of revenue. He added that for 2017 staff will not be
able to provide subsidy by route, but staff can provide cost by route. He
noted that this year, as staff overcomes financial challenges, ridership will
only be broken down as cost per route and cost per rider, which will be
presented in October.
Committee Chair Menten said that she did not like that response at all.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the issue is making sure that the information
staff would be providing on a route level is reliable and correct. She stated
that at this time, staff does not feel comfortable releasing that information
due to accuracy concerns.
Committee Chair Menten asked if ridership could be broken down by class of
service.
Ms. McKillop remarked that she would review the information to see how far
down the ridership could be broken down.

• July 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Ms. McKillop explained that the good news is that sales and use tax figures
were higher than what staff had originally estimated. She noted that the
variance is $11.1 million over budget which will provide some cushion in the
next few months. She said that ridership is still slightly down, but fare
revenue is up over the revised amended budget estimates.
Director Broom asked if the RTD marijuana tax revenue is being collected
and not dispersed, or if the state is charging less in taxes.
Ms. McKillop stated that the state eliminated the 2.9% tax rate and
substituted a higher tax.
Director Broom inquired if the state is keeping the 2.9% for itself instead of
the special districts.
Ms. McKillop said that the state replaced the 10% tax with a 15% tax, but
the way that the bill was written omitted the special districts from collecting
any revenue from marijuana sales.
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop stated that, in the Monthly Financial Status Report, the lines
were at one time listed individually, but as more FasTracks lines opened up
they were merged. She noted that staff can look into providing an additional
document that would breakdown the ridership of each line.

6.C

Director Broom asked if RTD could recoup in January the sales tax it had
lost retroactively.
Ms. McKillop explained that taxes could not be collected retroactively, but
they could be collected from January on, once the funding is restored.

Ms. McKillop said that staff had not heard any updates as to SB 267’s
status.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone reminded the Board that the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee would be meeting on Thursday, September
21st to review the core task goals.
Director Tisdale informed the Board that he would be sending them an email and
they should be on the lookout for it in the upcoming days.
Mr. Abel noted that the RTD Bus Roadeo would take place on Saturday, September
16th at District Shops. He stated that the event would begin at 7:00 a.m. and
would be finished by 2:00 p.m. He also added that the RTD Employee Awards
would be held on Thursday, September 14th at Tivoli beginning at 9:00 a.m.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 17, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:38 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Menten commented that she heard SB 267 was going back
to the legislature in a special session. She asked if staff had heard anything
about that.

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.D

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 14, 2017 at 12:00 PM
I.

II.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the committee to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 2nd Vice-Chair
Deadwyler
(participated by phone), Secretary Walker

Committee members absent:

1st Vice-Chair Francone, Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Director Tisdale (participated by phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager
Barbara McManus, Board Office Administrator
John McKay

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy briefly reviewed the September 26 Board Meeting agenda. He stated there were three
items on the unanimous consent agenda and that there were no retirees for the month of
September. He noted the possibility of a lengthy public participation segment due to discussion of
the proposed R Line service changes. He said he had received 70 emails so far on the topic. He
suggested that many people may attend the meeting and that each one who wished to speak would
have three minutes to do so.
Motion:

Chair Hoy made the motion to approve moving the
August 15th Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

6.D

Other Matters
Director Deadwyler spoke further about the R Line service changes. She said she had received
over 130 emails the previous evening regarding the service changes. She stated that the W Line
was given a year to establish its ridership levels and that RTD’s process is to give each new
service a year before making cuts. She asked why the R Line had not been given a year.
Chair Hoy agreed with Director Deadwyler’s statements and said that others he has spoken to
agree as well. He said the timing of the cuts was poor and that the line should have been given a
full year. He noted that the target opening date of the VA hospital was in the first quarter of 2018
and that Aurora’s Mayor Steve Hogan said that RTD should give the R Line a year or two to
establish ridership. Chair Hoy said that waiting until March would give Mayor Hogan everything
he needs. He noted the large volume of emails sent by people saying that RTD should not cut
service levels and stated that RTD understands that not a lot of people are riding the R Line
currently.
Director Deadwyler stated that the agency gave the W Line more than a year to establish its
ridership, whereas the R Line has not been given six months. She said she did not see the
reasoning to start cutting service.
General Manager Genova said that he had a lot of conversations with the group that put out the
service change notice. Regarding the high volume of emails, he noted that the City of Aurora
placed verbiage on a social media site for people to cut and paste into emails and said that Aurora
had provided the contact information of certain Directors. He said the language in the emails is
similar to that seen in a letter to the Board from Mayor Hogan. General Manager Genova agreed
that the service change proposal was too severe at that point in time but noted that, at certain
times of day on weekends and non-peak periods, the line only experienced 20 boardings per hour.
He said that the next lowest performing line experiences at least double that number of boardings
and stated that the agency would present the ridership information for the other lines to the Board.
He said that the agency would create a response for Directors to send to constituents if they so
chose. He took responsibility for the service changes as they were proposed but noted that the
agency almost always makes modifications to service changes based on feedback from public
meetings. He reminded the committee that, during the presentation in the Operations & Customer
Service Committee on September 12, 2017, he mentioned the agency would look at other options,
such as adjustments for non-peak and weekend service while maintaining 15-minute headways
between Florida Station and Peoria Station. He said that Public Relations would get the message
out but reiterated that the ridership for the R Line is well below anything the agency had ever
seen and stated that the Board could decide to leave the current service levels as is. He said that
staff wanted to communicate that the service changes are a process and at the end there will be a
different proposal for the Board to consider.
Director Walker said that he had not heard about the volume of emails but did receive one email
regarding the changes. He said that the Board always receives proposals from staff and that it is
the Board’s responsibility to approve the best proposal. He said the Board does not have to accept
proposals and can modify them. He said it is good to hear what staff thinks and stated that the

Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

III.

6.D

community can request staff to change proposals as well. He said he was not concerned with the
staff’s proposal and said that, through discussion, the agency can come up with a better solution
for everyone. He said that staff was right to address the problem they saw and that the Board can
always make changes.

Director Deadwyler said her concern is for people who already ride the train. She said, with
respect to the letter from Mayor Hogan, that she agrees that the R Line was not marketed. She
reiterated that she could not see cutting service, especially with winter approaching. She said she
would ask the Board to reconsider and give the line at least a year.
Chair Hoy said that everyone is on high alert now and that service and planning staff will look at
alternatives because they realize they have stirred up a hornet’s nest. He said the staff will want to
see the process go through to its conclusion.
General Manager Genova said he asked staff whether they could do an intermediate step for
service reductions but decided to take that option off the table, because doing so cuts across the
grain of the service change process.
Director Tisdale agreed with Director Deadwyler’s sentiments. He said that the agency may be
too far out in front of the issue. He said that it was appropriate for staff to have brought the issue
of the R Line’s ridership to the Board’s attention, because if they had not done so and had not
suggested a plan to go forward, the Board would have criticized them somewhere down the road.
Chair Hoy said that the discussion could have been delayed until a subsequent run board in order
to be sensitive to Aurora’s needs. He said that everyone was on the same page that service levels
may have to be reduced. He said that day may not have been the best day to do so but noted that
staff would prepare a response that each Director could use at their own discretion. He said that
staff was in the field trying to do the best they could with the public relations issues.
General Manager Genova noted that RTD’s Public Relations team was working with media
outlets at that time.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:23 p.m.

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said that the matter will be resolved because the process allows that resolution to
happen.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 14, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.E

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 4:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Thursday, September 21, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
4:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived
4:37 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Absent

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Present

4:37 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

4:39 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

4:07 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

4:36 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Absent
Absent

4:34 PM
4:32 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Absent

4:31 PM

4:34 PM

5:25 PM

Packet Pg. 49

6.E

Director Tisdale arrived late. Directors Deadwyler and Walker left early. Directors
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Solano, and Williams were absent.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry
Stopplecamp

Others Present:

Joe Christie, Diana Parks

There were no recommended actions.

C. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Chair Hoy stated that he would entertain a motion to move into Executive Session
for the purpose of discussing the Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution process
and negotiations. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (Conferences with an attorney for the
local public body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal
questions); and CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions relative to matters
that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for negotiations; and
instructing negotiators).
Motion:

Director Francone made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
the Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution
process and negotiations. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b)
(Conferences with an attorney for the local
public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions); and CRS
24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions
relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations;
developing
strategy
for
negotiations; and instructing negotiators).
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Walker
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Solano, Tisdale, Williams

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously. The Board
moved into Executive Session at 4:41 p.m.
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 4:30 PM (Committee Reports)

B. Recommended Actions

6.E

D. Motion to Adjourn from Executive Session
E. Updates
There were no updates.

F. Next Meeting Date - October 3, 2017
G. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 4:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 6:03 p.m. directly after the
Executive Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 51

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 15, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Absent
Present

Arrived
5:29 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:26 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:28 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:24 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:26 PM

5:28 PM

5:29 PM
5:28 PM
5:32 PM

John McKay called roll. There were (13) members present at roll call. Directors Archuleta
and Folska were absent.

Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina Callahan, Lou Cripps,
Sherry Ellebracht, Brett Feddersen, David Genova, Bob Grado, Kim
Heldman, Russ Larson, Doug MacLeod, John Mckay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Scott Reed, Gerald Stoll, Walt Stringer, Mark Tieman,
Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Saoirse Charis- Graves, Dr. William Gross, Turfe Louise, Mike Peed,
Gerald Stoll, Mrs. Stoll, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy noted there were four retirees of the month of August, and one was in
attendance: Gerald A. Stoll.
Brett Feddersen, Manager of Shared Technical Services, stated that Gerald Stoll, Lead
Service Desk Analyst, worked for him as lead at the service desk. He explained that the
position included answering phone calls, making sure the computers worked, helping
people, and being the first responder. He stated that last fall, when he was in the lobby,
bragging about Colerain High School, Mr. Stoll overheard him and told him he went there,
too. He stated that they concluded that Mr. Stoll went to the same high school at the
same time as his father. Mr. Feddersen said it was an amazing coincidence that 1,500
miles apart, 50 years later, he got the pleasure of working with someone who went to
school with his father. He stated that Mr. Stoll has devoted his life to RTD. He explained
that Mr. Stoll worked as a bus driver, in accounting, and with IT. He said he basically built
the foundations for the agency’s service desk, help desk, and the customer service ethic
that agency has now. Mr. Fedderson added that Mr. Stoll had been a mentor to the other
members of the RTD service desk, and that he was honored to have gotten to know him
and work with him.
Mr. Stoll stated that he enjoyed working at RTD. He said he started out as a bus driver
and enjoyed it very much until, after a couple of years, his wife pointed out that she only
saw him 14 hours a week, including hours of sleep. He stated that was when he got
interested in accounts payable. He noted that, as a bus driver, seniority counted and that
was what got employees everywhere in the company. He added that RTD had been really
good to him and he hoped he had been just as good to RTD in the long term as well.
Chair Hoy thanked Mr. Stoll and added that retiree awards were always the highlight of
the Board Meetings. He further added that it was great to see such dedicated hard
working employees.

Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated that public participation was open to anyone who wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes.
Saoirse Charis-Graves, City of Golden, stated that she was a Council Member from the
City of Golden and she knew Director Tisdale from Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) and Director Anderson from Jefferson County Transportation
Advisory Group (JEFFTAG). She added that she appreciated that Director Menten attended
the most recent City Council Meeting to advise them of the proposed changes related to
the W Line service. She further added that she knew the agency was not voting on the W
Line changes at that time but that it might not be too early to share some of her thoughts.
Ms. Charis-Graves stated that Golden City Council, along with the Mayor, the City
Manager, and the city staff, were extremely dismayed by the proposed changes. She
added that Golden had been an active promoter of the W Line from the day it opened. She
said that every year the City Council approves funds to expand their support of transit
options and education for citizens and visitors on how they can access the public transit.
She stated that she personally advocates to her neighbors and to her constituents that
taking the light rail is a significant way to support their community, both the immediate
Golden community and the greater Front Range community, in reducing vehicle congestion
and different kinds of pollution. She further added that the Golden Call-n-Ride system had
been, by all reports, one of the most successful, if not the most successful in RTD from
the very beginning. She noted that Golden continues to invest more money into the local
Call-n-Ride Route to and from the station and said that the expansion of their Call-N-Ride
system is based on the input from their residents and businesses as to what can be done
to make it easier to use. She stated that the City of Golden had increased their funding for
alternative ways to get to and from the light rail station in Golden, such as eventually
installing a bike share station.
Ms. Charis-Graves stated that cuts to the W Line would impact not just Golden residents
and visitors, but also those more vulnerable populations who need access to the VA clinic,
Human Services, and to the County Government Building. She noted that those were
critical centers in their county and the City of Golden should not be throwing up more
barriers to access them if it can be avoided. She said at the very least she would ask the
agency to consider a reduction to services after peak service hours and weekends. She
explained that, if the agency must consider reducing service time, it is important to keep
the day time service at 15-minute intervals. She further added that RTD could monitor the
performance for one year and then have another discussion. She thanked the Board for
listening and stated that hopefully the Board could consider her comments tonight.

Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

V.

8.A

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten GM
Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Director Francone stated that the General Manager mid-year survey process has been
completed and that 12 out of the 15 Directors completed their surveys and returned them.
She stated that she understood there were some problems returning the surveys for a
couple of the Directors. She noted that there will be one more survey in October 2017. She
added that the Board Office is ready, willing, and able to assist Directors as needed in
completing the surveys. She further added that she will keep reminding the Directors about
the survey as the time gets closer.
Director Francone noted that the agency has a contract negotiation coming up for General
Manager Genova. She said that his contract expires in December 2018 and that the agency
is looking at the possibility of a contract negotiation for next year. She added that the
committee will be working in 2018 towards that goal.
Chair Hoy remarked that, for clarification, those Directors who had not filled out the latest
survey will not be able to because it has closed, but in the future Directors can go to the
Board Office and get assistance if they need to.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 25, 2017
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of July 25, 2017.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Board of Directors - Board Meeting - Jul 25, 2017 5:30 PM

Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

VI.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:

ACCEPTED [12 TO 0] WITH 1 ABSTENTION
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Jeff Walker

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
Attended Events and Awards


August 3rd – A Rider Appreciation Event was held at 36th and Broomfield
Station in Broomfield, and Director Lubow attended.



August 8th – Directors Tisdale and Williams attended the Denver Metro
Chamber of Commerce State of the City event.



August 11th – The South Metro Denver Chamber held its Economic
Development Group Breakfast, and Director Tisdale attended.

Ongoing and Upcoming Events


RTD’s Snow Plow Rodeo will take place at District Shops on August 18th.



The Light Rail Rodeo will be held the following day, August 19th, at the Elati
Light Rail Division. Directors Sisk and Tisdale will be attending. The Bus
Rodeo will take place the following month, on September 16th, at District
Shops.



The next meeting of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Initiative will be held at
Arrow Electronics in Centennial on August 23rd. Directors Menten, Mihalik,
and Williams will attend.



The MAX (Multi-Agency Exchange) Program will be visiting Denver the week
of August 21st-25th:



o

On August 24th, the MAX Graduation Dinner will be held in the
Magnolia Hotel Ballroom here in downtown Denver, and Director
Francone will attend.

o

On August 25th, Director Walker will moderate a panel of transit
agency CEO’s as part of the program.

The Local Coordinating Councils for several counties within the district will
hold meetings in August and September, and Director Williams will be
participating.

Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A



The Pass Program Working Group will be meeting at the Lakewood Cultural
Center in Lakewood on August 29th and at the Sheraton Downtown Denver
on September 19th.



Labor Day is on Monday, September 4th, and RTD’s Administrative Offices
will be closed that day.



DRMAC’s Transit and Accessibility Task Force will meet here at Blake on
September 6th.



Customer Appreciation Events will be held on the September 5th at the US36
& Sheridan Station and on September 26th at the Westminster Station, both
of which I will be attending, and on September 14th at the McCaslin Station,
which Director Sisk will attend.



The Transportation Girl Luncheon will be held at the Renaissance Denver in
Stapleton on September 7th, and Director Solano will attend.



The ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) will meet in this room on
September 12th.



RTD’s Employee Recognition Awards will be held at the Tivoli Turnhalle on
the Auraria Campus on September 14th.



Denver is hosting Rail~Volution this year, and workshops and conferences
will be held throughout the metro area during the week of September 17th –
20th. Directors Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, and I will attend.



Director Williams will be attending the CASTA/CDOT Fall Conference in
Telluride from September 19th – 22nd.



The CAC Quarterly Meeting will take place here in Conference Room A on
September 20th.

Director Sisk inquired about the upcoming Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
dinner.
Director Hoy confirmed the dinner’s place and time.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Met with David Rushton, DTP Board Chair, John Thompson, DTP Executive
Director, and Chair Hoy on Wednesday, July 26th.


Attended a NATA meeting on Thursday, July 27th.

Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A



Met with Cindy Terwilliger, FTA Region VIII Administrator on Friday, July
28th.



Met with Doug Rex, Acting Executive Director, DRCOG on Tuesday, August
1st.



Presented at the Metro Mayors Caucus on Wednesday, August 2nd.



Had a Conference Call with the DTP Board on Thursday, August 3rd.



Had a Conference call with Bob Lauby, Associate Administrator for Railroad
Safety & Chief Safety Officer at the Federal Railroad Administration on
Thursday, August 3rd.



Attended the Denver Metro Chamber’s State of the City on Tuesday, August
8th.



Met and presented information regarding P3s, FasTracks and Union Station
with Jennifer Hollrah, Majority Staffer for the House Appropriations
Committee – Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development (THUD) and Mike Dino, of Patton Boggs on Tuesday, August
8th and Wednesday, August 9th.



Presented at the North Metro Elected Officials meeting on Thursday, August
10th.



Attended the DRCOG RTC Committee meeting on Tuesday, August 15th.

Director Lubow asked for a recap of the CDOT presentation.
General Manager Genvoa stated that Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
presented a summary of a couple of different options that they have looked at, going from
Fort Collins down to Pueblo. He said that the presentation reviewed two or three different
routes, but the one he was really intrigued with was the route that would come right to
the middle of Denver but would share the agency’s infrastructure. He said that an example
is the North Metro Line and on the light rail. He stated that DRCOG presented some pros
and cons of the different options and added that all options were in the $10,000,000,000
- $11,000,000,000 range. He further added that there is no real plan to move anything
ahead just yet, given those funding requirements. He said that CDOT also presented
Bustang information and explained how bussing was done this year and last year. He said
that CDOT had actually increased their ridership and revenue and discussed possibly
adding some other stops on their Fort Collins to Denver route, as well as their Colorado

Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Director Tisdale stated that CDOT did not talk about how they ran Bustang from Denver
International Airport to an Eagle Regional Airport in Eagle, Colorado. He added that CDOT
has an east west connection along I-70. He further added that he thought the Board would
enjoy seeing the statistics relative to Bustang and then relative to the cost on various fixed
rail and bus for the north south corridor.
Director Menten stated that she had conversations with some of the staff that dealt with
the Bustang program at CDOT and she was curious whether this report included subsidies.
She added that when she talked to people from CDOT their statement was that they do
not include capital, because if CDOT did that it would just look horrible. She further added
that she knew it was outside of what the committee had to focus on at the moment, but
she was interested to know.
General Manager Genova stated that CDOT did not share that kind of information but said
he would check in with them to see what he could find out.
Director Francone remarked to Director Lubow that the presentation was part of the
DRCOG package that the committee received. She added that she would be happy to
share that with Director Lubow.
Director Francone asked Mr.Van Meter for a copy of the Inter Regional Connectivity (ICS)
study for 2016-2017.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy stated that there were two items on the unanimous consent agenda. He
commented that if any Director had a change, or questions, they should request that
action item be pulled from the Unanimous Consent agenda and moved to Recommended
Actions.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent
agenda.

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

Springs to Denver route. He stated that he would see if he could get the presentation to
the Board.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Archuleta and Folska

A.
Recommendation for Contract Award to HNTB for FasTracks Systems Engineering
Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize award of a five-year contract with an option for a one-year
extension with HNTB Corporation in the not-to-exceed amount of $22,368,708 for
Systems Engineering consulting work.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize award of a five-year contract with an option for a
one-year extension with HNTB Corporation in the not-to-exceed amount of $22,368,708
for Systems Engineering consulting work.
B.

Approval of Bank Signature Authorization

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the
“Agreement”).

XII.

Recommended Action
There was no recommended action.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
Director Lubow stated she had submitted a General Manager’s Response (GMR) request
and instead received a notice about a non-GMR (NGMR). She added that the agency had
different request processes and she just wanted to make sure the General Manager got to
see citizens’ concerns. She further added that she did not know how was determined
which GMR’s made it to the General Manager and which did not.
General Manager Genova stated that he was familiar with all of the GMRs, whether was a
NGMR or GMR. He explained that the difference was that a NGMR does not have his
signature and it would be up to an Assistant General Manager (AGM) level. He added that,
when an NGMR comes in, it might be received through the Board Office or via email that a
Board Member sent directly to him. He further added that he would make a determination
based of the breadth and scope of what the issue was, whether it lends itself to a

Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Director Lubow asked if he would see the NGMRs anyway.
General Manager Genova said yes, and that the NGMRs were tracked every week. He
explained that every week in the agency’s senior leadership team (SLT) meetings the
agency had a tracking sheet of all of the GMRs and NGRMs, their status when they came
in, and who they were assigned to.

XV.

New Business
Director Francone stated that, in the spirit of former Director Kent Bagley, she wanted to
report out two of the field trips that she went on. She stated that on August 4th she joined
the Employer Supporting Guard and Reserve (ESGR) organization. She explained that ESGR
is a liaison group between employers and members of the National Guard and Reserve that
are employed with them. She stated that she got to ride on a C130 out of Peterson Air
Force Base and that it was stunning. She added that the take away from that experience
was that she used to think that, when people were on Reserve or Guard duty leave they
just goof around, but the truth of it was that those people were actually training. She said
they were active and up to date with whatever the security protocols were and were
ready to go. She gave a big thank you to the agency and all employers who retain Reserve
and Guard employees and allow them to be there for our country in case they need to
deploy. She stated that her second field trip was with Bike JEFFCO on August 9th. She
gave thanks to Mike Meader, the Allied Barton staff that came along with her, and
Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations Terry Emmons for loaning her Phil Eberle,
General Superintendent of Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance. She added that the comments
from the Bike JEFFCO group were very appreciative and that they told her they were
overwhelmed with support that RTD showed. She added that Bike JEFFCO expressed they
were very appreciative of the opportunity to highlight some of the issues with taking a
bike on the public transportation systems.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:15 p.m.

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

narrower response, or whether it was a broader response that he would need to forward
to others. He stated that, in the Board Office, Executive Manager Barbara McManus and
her team made those decisions as well.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 15, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017)

8.A

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer from the Garage
Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services
expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the replacement of
the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest,
Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines.
BACKGROUND
Network equipment that supports commerce and security activities on the Southwest, Southeast and
Central Plate Valley rail lines are no longer in a state of good repair. The network equipment and
switches need to be replaced as the technology is at end-of-life and may become unreliable.
The new network equipment includes multiple network switches and routers which connect to RTD’s
core network infrastructure. Total estimated costs are not to exceed $900,000.
In 2015, a Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) funding request was made to replace equipment on one of the
three rail lines. This project has $320,000 available. An unrelated project, the Garage Concentrator
Upgrade project, was completed under budget and has $325,000 remaining that can be used for the
Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project. The Garage Concentrator Upgrade project originally
included contract services to install the equipment. The Information Technology team opted to install
the equipment using in-house resources resulting in overall project savings of $325,000. The remaining
$255,000 needed for the Network Equipment project is available in the Information Technology
expense budget.
DISCUSSION
As the district continues to lean more heavily on technology, our reliance upon the network
infrastructure increases in need and criticality. For example, Ticket Vending Machines (TVM) accept
credit cards. The network equipment that connects the TVMs to RTD infrastructure must adhere to
Payment Card Industry standards. Moreover, this network equipment is used to transport information
to the Public Information Displays (PIDs) on the platforms, and is used by security in support of the
security cameras and emergency telephones.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The project budget will not exceed $900,000. $325,000 was previously approved in the SBP. This

Packet Pg. 63

11.A

request is asking for permission to transfer $320,000 from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade Project
and $255,000 from the Information Technology expense budget to the Network Equipment and
Switches Upgrade project.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer from the Garage
Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services
expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the replacement
of the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest,
Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines. This is the preferred alternative.
2. RTD replaces the equipment and switches on one rail line at a cost $325,000. This leaves two other
rail lines at risk of equipment failure potentially leaving RTD unable to collect revenue, use
emergency telephones, and collect security camera footage.
3. RTD does not replace the legacy switch equipment on these lines and continues to use the existing
equipment, some of which is not Payment Card Industry compliant. This puts the agency at risk of
violating PCI endorsement.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 64

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

ITS Work Order Contract

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract
(Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the
budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
BACKGROUND
RTD has need of an on-call contractor to perform work in support of initiatives including Information
Technology Governance; Service Provision, Acquisition and Contracting; Intelligent Transportation
Systems, Emerging Technologies and Transit Business Operations. The contractor will provide
technical support of the agency’s broad range of technologies and applications. The Work Orders (WOs)
will be short to mid-term periods.
DISSCUSSION
RTD conducted an open procurement for an ITS Work Order contractor.
proposals. The criteria used to evaluate the proposals was:
Item
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6

Item
Corporate Qualifications
Offer addresses the full portfolio of services
References
Staff Qualifications
Prototypical Project Management Plan and Monthly Status
Report
Cost

Six firms submitted

Weight
(%)
25
10
10
25
5
25

The five members of the evaluation team selected three firms for interviews. Apex was selected as
the successful proposer.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $10,000,000. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in
the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed. The types of funds are dependent upon
the funding source of each individual project. Individual work orders will be funded as the project
requirement is processed. The amount is not to exceed $2,000,000 in any one year.

Packet Pg. 65

11.B

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order
Contract (Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years.
This is the preferred alternative.
2. Provide the needed services with RTD personnel. RTD personnel does not have the expertise or
capacity for the work provided by a work order contractor. This does not meet the needs of RTD.
3. Advertise again and proceed with an entirely new procurement. This would take well over six
months and not likely result in a different outcome.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 66

11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Contract Extension for Special
Event Ticket Sellers

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the final option year and
increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central Parking System,
Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares through April 15, 2019.
BACKGROUND
RTD is currently contracted with Central Parking Systems, Inc. for a term of three years plus two option
years. The initial three-year period had a contract value of $448,336.09. The first option year has been
exercised increasing the contract amount to $598,336.09. Exercising the final option year will add
$172,000.00 to the contract authority for a revised contract amount not-to-exceed $770,336.09.
DISCUSSION
Ticket sellers are deployed to supplement ticket vending machines (TVMs) and Park-n-Rides during
periods of high passenger volume for special events. Providing these supplemental ticket sales avoids
long lines at the TVMs, allows for more streamlined boardings and provides good customer service.
These ticket selling services are used during Rockies and Broncos games as well as other special events
such as The Race for the Cure, large concerts, etc.
Central Parking provides the staffing necessary for these supplemental ticket sales. RTD retains all fares
sold by the ticket sellers and pays Central Parking for the staffing they supply. The following shows the
last three years of ticket sales performed by Central Parking.
Contract
Costs

Ticket Sales
2016
2015
2014

$

652,130
821,023
855,960

$

(146,849)
(179,702)
(186,418)

Net
$

505,281
641,321
669,542

The ticket sellers on the rail corridors are housed in secure booths at certain rail stations where high
passenger volumes occur. The booths have internet and power connections which allow the sellers to
accept credit cards as well as cash.
RTD has contracted with Central Parking to provide the staffing for these supplemental ticket sales
because RTD does not have enough staffing resources in-house. During these events, RTD schedules
additional coverage with RTD revenue technicians to service TVMs and also may provide some RTD
ticket sellers that use handheld ticket selling devices.

Packet Pg. 67

11.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Exercising the final option year will authorize $172,000 in contract funding. Funding for 2017 is
included in the 2017 Amended Budget approved by the Board of Directors in June 2016 and will be
included in the 2018 Budget request.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the final option
year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central
Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares through April 15,
2019. This is the recommended action.
2) Do not approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
exercise the final option year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the
RTD contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event
fares through April 15, 2019. This is not the recommended action because it would result in long
lines to purchase tickets, uneven boardings and customer dissatisfaction.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 68

