1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, May 13, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 7:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

7:32 PM
7:27 PM
7:25 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

7:25 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District E
Committee Chair
Director, District A

Remote
Present
Present

7:29 PM
7:25 PM

Gary Lasater

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:26 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:25 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:30 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District C
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present

7:30 PM
7:26 PM
7:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:30 PM
7:30 PM

Director Folska participated via remote.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Joseph Christie, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova,
Svetlana Grechka, Kenn Hardin, Genevieve Hutchison, Terry
Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian
Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha,
Bill Sirois, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Zack Alexander, Greg Amparano, Jenifer Brandeberry, Dan Cohen,
Marion Combs, Audrey DeBarros, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Sherman Hamilton, Dan Heilig, Julie McKenna, EJ Meade, Daniel
Pearsall, Laura Rinker, Marta Sipeki, Johnnie Solo, Cindy Stovall,
Jonnie Thomas, George Thorn, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Sean
Vonfeldt, Monte Whaley, Christina Zazueta

B. CAC Update
The Citizens Advisory Committee update was given during the Planning and
Development Committee meeting held earlier in the evening.

C. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for Contract Award to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for the
FasTracks Construction Management Support Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to the
Triunity-Hill Joint Venture, the most qualified firm based on the application
of the evaluation criteria, in the amount not to exceed $15,150,000 for
Construction Management Support Consulting work for FasTracks for the
years 2014-2020. Funds for the award are contained in the RTD FasTracks
capital budget for each project to which they will be assigned.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 27, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager of Program Management,
recognized Jonnie Thomas of Triunity and Dan Heilig of Hill
International who were in the audience.
Pranaya Shrestha explained that as staff moved forward
developing the schedule for the North Metro Rail Line after
receiving the unsolicited proposal they realized it went beyond
the length of RTD’s current Construction Management Support
Consulting contract with Jacobs Engineering. He said that
staff feels it would not be beneficial to have people from
Jacobs Engineering begin a project and then need to be pulled
off when the contract ended. He stated that because of this,
a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued to pursue a new
consulting contract to provide ongoing support for the North
Metro and future projects; this contract term would be for a
six year period, negotiated annually, with four (4) one-year
options.
Pranaya Shrestha shared with the Board that RTD received
four excellent proposals from Kleinfelder, LS Gallegos and
Associates, Inc., RockSol/CH2M HILL and Triunity-Hill Joint
Venture. He noted that each proposal was evaluated based on
the following criteria:
 Understanding of Project Objectives – 25%
 Technical and Management Approach – 30%
 Capabilities and Experience – 30%
 DBE/SBE Approach, WIN Program Approach, and
Creative Strategies to Ensure Diversity and Inclusion –
15%
Pranaya Shrestha informed the Board that there was a five
member evaluation team that unanimously selected TriunityHill. He commented that Triunity, the managing partner, is a
DBE firm that is a true success story of FasTracks. He said
that the DBE goal of the RFP was 27% which the firm has
committed to exceeding; they have established their own goal
of 34%. Pranaya Shrestha also noted that they were
committed to exceeding the WIN goal of 10%. He shared that
Triunity-Hill was very committed to community outreach to try
to bring on individuals that live in the community to work on
the project, which was viewed very positively during the
evaluation process.

Pranaya Shrestha stated that funds for the contract award are
included in the FasTracks budget for each project that the firm
will be assigned.
Director Anderson asked if Triunity, as the DBE partner, would
have boot on the ground. Pranaya Stated that they absolutely
would. He noted that the project manager is an employee of
Triunity. He said that RTD staff also anticipates other key
staff members will be from Triunity.
Director Lubow expressed concern that this contract might be
duplicative of our current FasTracks Construction Management
Support contract that goes through 2017. Pranaya Shrestha
explained that staff did not want to have anyone from Jacobs
start on North Metro because the work will go beyond the end
of our contract with them. Rick Clarke, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, noted that both firms supply
RTD with people to help manage our projects; however, the
people for any project that will go beyond 2017 will come
from the Triunity-Hill team.
Chair Sisk shared that he was very impressed that the
evaluation committee unanimously selected Triunity-Hill as the
number one proposal. He wondered how the not-to-exceed
amount was determined. Chair Sisk also wondered how their
cost compared with the other proposers. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, informed the Board that for architectural and
engineering contracts price is not a factor. The proposers are
evaluated on qualifications and then a price is negotiated.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that their WIN and DBE
numbers were very impressive. She asked if in addition to
Triunity performing work as the managing partner if they
would also be hiring local DBEs. She also wondered if the
WIN participants would be local people as well. Pranaya
Shrestha said that Triunity-Hill had several local DBE firms that
they would be working with. General Manager Washington
noted that through the WIN program, anyone that is eligible to
work in the US can take part in the program. He explained
that RTD and Triunity-Hill would be doing outreach within the
project’s communities to encourage local participation.
Director Bagley asked if Triunity-Hill would only be working on
the North Metro Corridor. Pranaya Shrestha stated that if
there are other projects that would be in the District’s best

interest to have them work on the contract allows for us to
use them. Rick Clarke said that no one from Jacobs would be
replaced on any current project with Triunity-Hill staff.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee the Board of
Directors approve the 2014 Annual Program Evaluation (APE). The APE
provides a comprehensive financial blueprint for all FasTracks capital
projects completed, underway or planned through the year 2019.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the May 27,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke noted that there was a Power Point presentation
included with the Board Report that is available in the May 13,
2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. He
reminded the Board that staff reviewed the presentation at the
April 1, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting. He
explained that the goal of first presenting the item as an
update was to give the Directors a chance to review the
information and ask staff questions. He shared that his team
had received a lot of good questions from the Board.
Rick Clarke shared that staff started the Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) process in 2007 as a response to the
financial challenges that RTD was experiencing with
FasTracks. He explained that staff thought it would be a good
idea to conduct a top to bottom cost of FasTracks each year.
He said that this gives RTD a financial blueprint to manage the
overall FasTracks budget as well as each project budget. He
noted that since so many of the FasTracks projects are now in
construction the major effort has shifted from developing

accurate estimates of costs to managing the projects within
the approved budget. Rick Clarke stated that in addition to
being a financial blueprint the APE will also be important input
for the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) that staff will begin
presenting in June.
Director Bagley noted that the financial impact outlined in the
Board Report is really only a small piece of the overall APE.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated
that was correct. The other components of the APE were
previously approved by the Board. He said the financial
impact in the Board Report only identified the new item that
was approved.
Director Solano noted that the APE is part of the Senate Bill
(SB) 208 Baseline Report. He wondered if the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) and Front Range
express (FREX) would also fall under the umbrella of SB 208.
Bill Van Meter stated that SB 208 only applies to RTD; if we
want to build any fixed guideway (bus rapid transit, light rail,
etc.) it must be approved by the Board with a super majority
vote (2/3) and approved by the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) through a simple majority vote. Marla
Lien noted that CDOT is subject to submitting an RTP.
Committee Chair James noted that the current committed
capital cost of FasTracks is $5.3 billion in year of expenditure
(YOE). He asked if staff could give him the total budget
including what is not currently committed in YOE. Rick Clarke
explained that the total cost of FasTracks is only available in
current year dollars as staff has not yet inflated uncommitted
projects. General Manager Washington explained that the
YOE number is very difficult for the general public to
understand so it can be counterproductive for RTD to use.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• Eagle Project Update
Rick Clarke introduced Greg Straight, Design-Build Project Manager, Kevin
Flynn, Public Information Project Manager, and Joe Christie, Construction
Project Manager. He shared with the Board that Joe Christie is a new
addition to the Eagle P3 team; he worked on Denver Union Station and after
that success, Rick Clarke said that he was very happy to have him move
over. They reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the March 13, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet.
Kevin Flynn recognized the team present from Denver Transit Partners.
They passed out a copy of the Commuter Rail Project Quarterly Newsletter
that was recently distributed throughout the Eagle P3 communities.
Director Anderson asked that the economic impact information be sent to
her. She expressed that her constituents would be very interested in that
information. She thanked the team for the great work they were doing in
Arvada. Director Anderson noted that as the line is built through Arvada
work is literally happening in people’s backyards but she has heard very little
grousing. She said that everyone is excited about the project and cannot
wait to be able to ride the train.
Director Tobiassen wondered if there was any risk in the Aviation Station
being completed on-time as construction has not yet started. Greg Straight
stated that construction had actually been stated. He explained that this
was a project in which we were still finishing the design while we had begun
construction. He shared that all the contracts needed to complete the
station had been executed so he did not anticipate any issues with it being
completed on-time.
Director Tobiassen commented that on the Southwest Corridor there is a
detection system for derailments. He wondered if there was a similar
system for the Commuter Rail. Rick Clarke stated that generally the
Commuter Rail and freight tracks are 50 feet apart; where they are not, a
wall is built. He said there is no detection system needed like on the
Southwest Corridor because that is Light Rail, not Commuter Rail.
Director Bagley extended his congratulations and welcome to Joe Christie.
He shared that Joe Christie is one of his constituents and he is very excited
to have him on the project.
Director Solano thanked DTP for putting their newsletter in both English and
Spanish.

Director Rivera-Malpiede echoed Director Solano’s thanks. She noted that
the communities affected by the project can be tough to communicate with
but the RTD and DTP teams do a great job. She said that they respond
immediately and communicate bilingually with cultural competence and
sensitivity.
Chair Sisk asked if staff could extrapolate further the economic impacts of
this project. He noted that while $802 million is a lot of money the figure is
even higher when we consider the trickle down effects. He believes looking
at the project from an economist perspective would be very impactful.
Director Folska expressed her thanks to the RTD and DTP staff. She
believes that everything they do is just really outstanding. She wondered if
the re-alignment of the I-225 Line around Fitzsimmons could delay its
completion and if so, could that delay lead to a delay for the East Line. Rick
Clarke said that the design for the I-225 re-alignment is complete and staff
does not anticipate any change in either line’s opening.
Director Deadwyler congratulated the DTP team. She shared that working
with them has been great and very informative. She said the way the team
communicated with her District, especially in the Montbello area, really made
her life easier.
General Manager Washington noted that the Board was really able to realize
the national significance of this project during their recent trip to
Washington, D.C. He said that this is not only an economic investment but
is also redefining how transit mega-projects are done. He stated that the
federal administration using this project as the only example of innovative
financing in the GROW AMERICA transportation proposal is a very big deal.
He reminded the Board that this is the only P3 in transit in this country.
Committee Chair Hoy commented that the importance of this project was
really brought out loud and clear during the Denver Union Station events as
well.

E. Other Matters
Director Bagley said that there were several recent events that he wanted to share
with the Board:
 In preparation for Denver Union Station opening he has been making
presentations to the City Councils for Littleton, Cherry Hills Village and
Greenwood Village as well as the City Club of Denver. He said that these
presentations have been really well received.
 Director Bagley shared that at the D4 groundbreaking for Alameda Station,
he and General Manager Washington had a really great conversation with





four WIN participants. He congratulated General Manager Washington for
his conversation with them and for allowing Director Bagley to participate as
he thought it was a very meaningful conversation.
He and Chair Sisk attended the welcome receptions for the Max Program.
He believes this is a tremendous program that really shows RTD’s
commitment to advancing our employees.
At the DRCOG Awards Ceremony one of Director Bagley’s former City
Council Members was awarded the John. V. Christensen Memorial Award.
He said in looking at past year recipients he learned that Director Anderson
had received the award. He stated that this is a tremendous recognition for
her to have received.

Director Anderson shared with the Board that she just completed reading a great
book, The Race Underground, about the story of transit in Boston and New York.
She thought it had a great background on what part electricity has played in transit.
She said it was very interesting, well written and fun to read.
Director Tobiassen asked staff to pass along his congratulations to Abniger Ek-Chan
and John Deschner who represented RTD at the International Bus Roadeo. He
stated that this is a very tough competition and RTD was very well represented.
Director Lasater informed the Board that he has been doing tours of DUS with
elected officials from Parker, Lone Tree, Centennial and Greenwood Village. He
said everyone from that area thinks RTD is doing an exceptionally great job.
Director Lasater noted that they were very interested in Transit Oriented
Development as well as the timelines for various lines to be completed.

F. Next Meeting Date - June 3, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

