Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 8, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
July 8, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair John Tayer, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly,
Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick
Barbara Brohl, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Neil Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Terry Howerter, Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, David Genova,
Gary Googins, Trent Ratcliff, John Tarbert, Teresa Sedmak, Robert
Merriman, Daria Serna, Tom Hughes, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Holman Carter (ATU 1001), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

Introduction to RTD’s New Chief Financial Officer – Phil Washington introduced the new Chief
Financial Officer, Terry Howerter. Mr. Howerter has a lot of experience with railroads and
will be an asset to the District. Mr. Howerter spoke briefly to the Committee and gave
an overview of his career.
I.

Recommended Action
 Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) (CAD/AVL)
Sole Source Fixed End Upgrade – Trent Ratcliff, Infrastructure Manager, presented this
action. RTD operates an analog radio communication system that is integrated with a
computer system to enable communication between dispatch and all buses and light
rail vehicles. The current system is 13 years old (the useful life is seven – nine years)
and this action is a sole source replacement of the critical components of the fixed end
infrastructure (servers, radio communication tower sites, software). In 2005 the
District replaced the communication system on the buses and light rail vehicles.
Director Busck asked about an 800MHz system and what the difference was between
that and the District’s system. Mr. Ratcliff responded that the District’s system is a
450MHz analog system. The FCC has mandated that the District must move to a

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 2 of 4
narrow band system by 2012. This action is a short term stop gap to keep the system
operational for the next four years while the District replaces the current system.
Director Busck asked when the replacement would be being and Mr. Ratcliff said the
project would take 3-4 years and will begin next year.
Director McMullen asked if the system would be digital in 2012 and would the District
have its own towers? Mr. Ratcliff responded that it would be a digital trunked
700MHz system. Currently, the District operates three radio tower sites and with the
wider band frequency there is good coverage. With the narrower band coverage, the
District will need more tower sites (7-10). Right now the District has about 90%
coverage with the current system. The new system will give about 96% coverage.
Gary Googins, Acting Manager Technical Communication, offered that the District is
looking to share towers with other municipalities.
Director Christopher was concerned about the amount of the contract and wondered if
there was any way the new system could be purchased now and not have the stop
gap expenditure.
Cal Marsella responded that the District is looking at this for several items, farebox
replacement. At this point in time, the cost benefit is better with the radio system to
take this step.
Phil Washington said that the District is looking to package the farebox replacement
and radio replacement as a unit.
This action is needed to improve communication with the District’s vehicles.
The Finance/Administration Committee recommends that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a sole-source contract
to Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) in the amount not-to-exceed $2,700,000.
The procurement is for fixed-end hardware and software system updates to the agency’s
computer aided dispatch and automatic vehicle location system (CAD/AVL).
Motion: Director Martinez made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the July 15, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.


Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement – This is a housekeeping item to
update the Bank Account Signature Authorization to include the new CFO, Terry
Howerter.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 3 of 4

It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the
“Agreement”).
Modification to RTD Investment Policy – This is a housekeeping item as well to include
Terry Howerter as part of the RTD Investment Policy. Also changes the terms from
Senior Manager of Finance to Chief Financial Officer.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Investment Policy (the “Policy”), modified to change
the title “Senior Manager of Finance” to that of “Chief Financial Officer” and to
authorize Terry L. Howerter, as Chief Financial Officer, to transact investment business
on behalf of the District (please see Appendix I to Policy).
Motion: Director Pulliam made a motion for
full approval of both the Bank
Account Signature Authorization and
the Modification to RTD Investment
Policy items before the
Board at the July 15, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously

II.

May Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget & Financial Analysis
gave this report. Sales tax is 3.8% below projection which is about the same as last
month. Ridership showed a slight decrease in rate but farebox revenue is up. Chair
Tayer wanted to know what the correlation between farebox increase and ridership
decrease is. He would like to see this analysis at the next Financial Administration
Committee. It could be that college students are out and that there was one less service
week in May 2008 from April 2008. Expenses were within plan and farebox revenue
continues to rise.
Director Busck asked if the State audits for sales tax violations. Cal Marsella talked
about the presentation the District received from the State regarding their audit process
and the Board was satisfied with their process.

III.

Budget Preparation Update – Phil Washington spoke to this item. The staff is working
hard to have the items from the Board Retreat ready for the August 21, 2008 budget
workshop. The 2008 amended budget and the TDP will be presented that date as well.
The budget is being looked at in three phases: 1. Short Term (2008 amended budget
and 2009 budget), 2. Near Term (2009-2014 TDP) and 3. Long Term (RTD taking a

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 4 of 4
leadership role around the country in regards to this transit funding paradox).
Director Chacon wanted to know if budget cuts would be brought to the August 21
meeting. Mr. Washington responded that several scenarios will be presented for the
Board’s consideration. The information will be distributed to the Board gradually between
now and August 21.
Director Martinez asked about the question of three car trains during the peak hours and
then the possibility of going to two car trains during off peak hours. Director Martinez
wanted to know what the dollar justification is for keeping three car trains during off
peak hours. He had a similar question regarding using articulated buses versus smaller
buses during off peak times.
IV. Other Matters – Cal Marsella mentioned that on July 9, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. there will be a
signing of the US 36 preferred alternative at City Park Recreation Center.
Director Chacon said she appreciated the GMR responses that are going out to
customers.
V.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
August 12, 2008.

VI. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 6:26 p.m.

