Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on March 6, 2007 at 6:45 p.m.
Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 6, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, March 6,
2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Please Note: Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Chairperson Martinez; Directors Brohl, Chacon, Elfenbein
Busck, Christopher, Daly, Kemp, Kinton, Quinlan, McMullen,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick
Director Pulliam

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Ron Dodsworth, Marla Lien, Lloyd
Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil
Washington.
Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole , Kevin Diviness,
Carol Duecker , Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova ,Jennifer
Heisler, Caitlin Magee, Robert Merriman, Richard Morton,
Scott Roberts, Robert Rynerson, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman,
John Shonsey, Errol Stevens, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow, Doug Gragg

Call to Order:

***
Chairperson Martinez called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.

Study Session
I. Fare Box Recovery versus Ridership
Robert Merriman reviewed the presentation on Ridership and Farebox
recovery ratio explaining how it is calculated and the variables that can
affect these ratios. Please refer to a copy of the presentation in the Study
Session Minute Notebook located in the Board office.
.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on March 6, 2007 at 6:45 p.m.
Page 2 of 2
II. Railroad Liability Legislation Status
Cal Marsella shared that the Railroad Liability Legislation had gone before the
Legislature today 3/6/07.
III. Other Matters
Chairperson Martinez stated the expense reports must be in and need to
include itemized receipts. This has been stated several times and also
memos sent out to this effect.
Chairperson Martinez inquired about the rail station sponsorship. Cal
Marsella shared this had been discussed a couple of years ago and had been
turned down by the Board.
Director Ruchman asked about the status of the Champions of Transit award
and that he had gotten feedback that indicates our process is broken.
Chairperson Martinez apologized and indicated that we would make revisions
to this process such that in the March 27 Board meeting, these Champions
will be recognized for their contribution in a public setting. Subsequent type
recognitions will be handled as part of the Board meeting where they can be
recognized in public.
In the April/May study session, further discussion will occur on the process
to handle these type awards.

IV. Adjournment—meeting adjourned at 7:14 p.m.

