2021-11-16
Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --order at-OK. Good evening, everyone. I will now call to order the Tuesday, November 16 RTD Board meeting to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM. And I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless
you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of the meeting will also be available via
RTD YouTube's page.
Colleagues, being elected as members of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values that we can all agree upon. As
such, I encourage all of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you.
We're going to start this evening with the Pledge of Allegiance. Secretary Buzek, would you please lead
us in that?
VINCE BUZEK: Happy to. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next I would like to ask Director Tisdale, would you please read out the land
acknowledgment, sir?
DOUG TISDALE: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho and other contemporary tribal nations
that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout the generations. May this acknowledgment
demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all
historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions to the district as we
move forward.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Ms. McManus, would you please call the roll? And please
note that Director Rosenthal will be a few minutes late.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Noted that Director Rosenthal will be a few minutes late. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present and accounted for. We have a quorum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. At RTD, safety is paramount and I would like to begin this
meeting with a short safety briefing.
The Transit Security Administration, also known as the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement
for public transportation until January 18, 2022. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must
wear a face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation to include airports, aircraft,
train stations and trains, bus stops and buses.
This evening, one of the many truly rewarding duties of serving on this Board is the recognition of RTD
retirees. Being able to acknowledge the incredible individuals who work here for a significant portion of
their professional careers is both an honor and a privilege. It's becoming increasingly rare for agencies
and companies to be fortunate enough to have such long standing tenured employees, and RTD is so
truly blessed to have such amazing and dedicated people as part of our family.
This evening I am honored to read the names of the employees who have retired since the beginning of
the year. Due to COVID, we've been unable to give these amazing individuals the send-off they so richly
deserve at our Blake Street boardroom. But tonight we would like to recognize and acknowledge their
time and dedication to this agency.
Daniel Astleford, Mechanic, 31 years. Pamela Atkinson, Bus Operator, 16 years. Teresa Baily, Bus
Operator, 23 years. James S. Boutell, Assistant Manager of Transportation, 31 years. Brian Bunch,
Internal Distribution Clerk, 20 years. Robert Daniels, General Repair Mechanic, 21 years. John C.
Dawson, Purchasing Agent, 36 years. Stewart A. Deerfield, MOW Supervisor, 17 years. Lori Gates, Risk
Management Specialist II, 24 years. David C. Geringer, Bus Operator, 20. Years Gory Granrud, Manager,
Design 32 years. Stewart M. Golditch, Bus Operator, 21 years. Matthew Harrison, Manager of
Environmental, 20 years. Kenneth W. Herrera, Light Rail Operator, 20 years. Minh Cung Hoang, Bus
Operator, 21 years. Keith A. Hunsinger, Bus Operator, 29 years. Brian D. Iacono, Senior Manager,
Materials Management, 36 years. David Jaquez, Parts Clerk, 36 years. Gaylon V. Johnson, Bus
Operator, 21 years. Jim Kelley, Team Lead/ Engineer IV, 15 years. Robert Lane, Bus Operator, 21 years.
David Miles, Bus Operator, 29 years. David L. Milligan, Bus Operator, 26 years. Albert Lane Morgan,
Mechanic, 20 years. Debrah Nixon, Bus Operator, 20 years. Marvin Roberts, Light Rail Electro-Mechanic,

29 years. Coy L. Robinson Jr., Bus Operator, 30 years. Bertram Rogers, Bus Operator, 20 years. Michelle
R. Romero, Bus Operator, 23 years. Fernando Ruiz-Carrillo, Bus Operator, 22 years. Eva Sandoval, Bus
Operator, 37 years. Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager, Program Management FasTrack 25 years. Ken
Siefford, Light Rail Operator, 23 years. James Alan Stadler, Associate General Counsel, 25 years. Jack
Tommins, Storeroom Supervisor, 35 years. James D. Trujillo, Bus Operator, 20 years. Maxine
Tomaschoff, Light Rail Operator, 17 years. Rod G. Tuggle, FM PM, 18 years. David Valentine, Bus
Operator, 17 years. Gerald L. Whalen, Bus Operator, 20 years. And Scott Wells, Street Supervisor, 32
years.
Can we give them a hand? This is just amazing.
Thank you. Thank you for your service to this agency. Thank you for your service to this community.
Thank you for being part of our family.
Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd like to note that Director Rosenthal has joined the meeting. And that for those
folks who did not catch your statement, all of those retirees were cumulative through 2021, January
through current.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
OK. This is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first. And if you'd wish to speak
and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Our
team will unmute you, and when it is your turn to speak, if you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the
opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address: board.office@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. And speakers,
please refrain from profane or obscene speech and direct your comments to the Board as a whole and
refrain from personal attacks.
Ms. McManus, do we have anyone in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I am not seeing any hands. I'm just looking a second time. I see two hands at this
point. One would be Lee Kemp.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Kemp, you have three minutes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute. Mr. Kemp, you're on mute.
LEE KEMP: OK. I finally figured it out. I apologize. My name is Lee Kemp. I reside at 12745 Winona
Circle in Broomfield. And I would just like to say congratulations to all those retirees, especially Brian
Iacono, who I have personally known for several years. And my one last thing I'd like to say is at the
APTA conference last year, I know that Doug Tisdale, Director Tisdale, was made chair of the board
committee for APTA. And I wanted to congratulate him publicly on his appointment and look forward to
seeing him chair that committee and push board members across our country forward where they need to
be recognized. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I am seeing Riley Warton.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Warton.
RILEY WARTON: Hello. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
RILEY WARTON: On?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
RILEY WARTON: I begin-- excuse me, I begin my job as an RTD bus operator this January. But I'm also-I also live in an area where transit could be a lot better, as is true with a lot of the RTD transit area. I don't
blame RTD for that, by the way. I mostly blame the pandemic. I blame a lot of external factors, including
the political situation.
I guess my question was, what are your current plans to perhaps make it easier to become an RTD bus
operator? Because while I think I'll be good to go, I don't know if other people are aware of it or if they're
able to do it or rather able to easily apply, I guess, I don't know.
And I don't know if this is the right place to ask this. So please, if there's a better place to ask this, please,
please let me know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, thank you, sir.
OK. Ms. McManus, is there anyone else in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just looked down the list and no, I don't see another hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Madame Chair? Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Do we want to point out to the gentleman who just spoke that he should submit
that question to the Board Office, that we are not designed at this meeting to reply to his question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We did. We did at the beginning. But yes, thank you for reiterating that so
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have another speaker, if you might. Paolo Solorzano.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Paolo, go ahead.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: OK. Hello. Hi?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hello.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Yeah, hi. This is Paolo Solorzano. It's great to hear all the long-time, the staff
there. But I'm just-- I'm calling in about the light rail signals in particular. It's something I've been bringing
up since 2018. The light rail banners basically system wide are still showing incorrect information at a lot
of stops. One example in particular that is a good reflection of what is going on system-wide-- and again,
this has been going on since 2018-- is the Colfax and Auraria station. That light rail signage throughout
COVID [AUDIO OUT] and over the past few months, which [INAUDIBLE] documented and I sent an email
to Customer Service Managers and some other people.
But this one in particular, Colfax and Auraria station, does not [AUDIO OUT]. It's been switching from
having no information, basically the malfunctioning [AUDIO OUT] banner. It then switched to having
correct information for a few days or-- and it's hard to tell sometimes. But then it-- right now it is showing
incorrect information. It's showing 8:00 AM through 8:30 AM all day long. And it has been like that for the
last few weeks.
Again, I have talked to several people on this call about this. It's just been ongoing for a long time. And
with the ongoing [AUDIO OUT] or more [AUDIO OUT] canceled in a day, it's [AUDIO OUT] commute
[AUDIO OUT] huge hassle in a lot of ways. So again, there's a lot of people missing parole violation,
probation, criminal justice system, or medical appointments, stuff like has happened to me.

But just lastly, this was-- yeah, I've been putting in these complaints for a long time. And I do have the
documentation. I've been trying to get that through to somebody who can give me some answers as far
as why this is ongoing. But on this date, I had sent the email and it's all dated, but there were 100 people
outside the Colfax and Auraria stations just within that [AUDIO OUT] hour. And yeah, so people do call
Ubers and Lyfts when they [AUDIO OUT] might not be coming. The MLB [AUDIO OUT] is also an
example of that. The communication, people-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Paolo. Your three minutes are up, sir. Thank you so much for
contacting RTD.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: OK. You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: So yeah, I'd appreciate a call back or something from somebody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus, anyone else in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no other hands.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
participation at this time.
The committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors? OK
hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent
record.
General Manager and Oversight and Performance Management updates. Secretary Buzek, if you would,
please give us an update on the work of the GM Oversight Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Our work is probably close to done for the year. But everybody
received an email from Ms. McManus on November 10, forwarding Ms. Johnson's self-evaluation and a
link to the evaluation tool. We have until Friday, November 15 to submit our appraisals. So please, as a
reminder, make sure everybody gets that done. It does take a little while to sit down and go through it. But
I'd appreciate it. I know Ms. Johnson would appreciate it if we all took the time and did a good job on that.
That's all I have. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next is the approval of the Board meeting minutes of
October 26, 2021. May I have a motion to approve the minutes for the October 26, 2020?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry? That was so fast. Who was it?
BOB BROOM: Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have an approval from Broom and a second from Director
Williams. Is there any discussion on this motion? Seeing none, I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no
votes on this action? Seeing none, that motion passes with 15 votes. Thank you.
Next is our General Manager's report. General Manager Johnson, would you please share with us your
report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening to you, Board members and to all
who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional
Transportation District.
As part of my General Manager report, I will brief you on several topics, noting how each of these topics
aligns with the Agency's strategic priorities. For those in attendance who may be unfamiliar with the
strategic priorities, they are: community value, RTD strives to be a strong community partner providing
value to customers as well as the broader Denver Metro region, while sustaining planet Earth; customer
excellence, RTD strives to consistently deliver high quality customer service; employee ownership, RTD
seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce; and financial success, RTD takes very
seriously the management of all financial resources.
This evening, I will share with you the following information. Speaking to community value, I will discuss
the Federal Transit Administration Small Starts grant approval for the Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit
project, a field tour and visit with Longmont city staff and research in which RTD participated in which was
conducted by the American Public Transportation Association regarding transit's post-pandemic
landscape.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss community engagement efforts surrounding Denver Union
Station, as well as access to the Adams County Justice Center. And related to employee ownership, I will
touch on COVID-19 impacts and employee vaccination efforts and Veterans Day appreciation.
So as it relates to community value, I am happy to report that the FTA has approved the Colfax Avenue
BRT project for entry into the Small Start project development phase of FTA's capital investment grants
program. This will be RTD's first Small Starts project since the Southeast rail extension, which opened for
revenue service in May of 2019. Other recent projects funded by the capital investment grants program
include the West Corridor, the Gold Line, and the University of Colorado A Line. The city and County of
Denver is providing the local match for the Colfax BRT and is sponsoring environmental review,
preliminary design, and public outreach, all of which are underway.

Denver has already committed $55 million to the project through the city's mobility bond. The 15 and the
15 Limited routes which serve the project area have been very successful at retaining ridership during the
COVID-19 pandemic. The primary capital improvements will include center running BRT between
Broadway and Yosemite and the project corridor runs from I-225 in Aurora to Denver Union Station.
Revenue operations are anticipated to commence in the 2-- excuse me, in the 2027-2028 time frame.
Just yesterday, on November 15, I, along with Assistant General Manager of Planning Bill Van Meter and
Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs Henry Stopplecamp, met with Longmont city officials,
including the Assistant City Manager Joni Marsh and Transportation Planner Phil Greenwald, to discuss
planning efforts surrounding the Coffman Street Busway project.
It was a great opportunity for me to become oriented with the landscape in the area and, more
specifically, learning about Longmont's project goal, which is to transform Coffman Street and the city's
central business district into a world class, cost effective, multimodal corridor. The project aims to improve
mobility by reducing traffic congestion and creating protected bicycle lanes and designated lanes for
transit buses, including RTD's as well as privately operated vehicles. Ample sidewalks and landscaping
elements will also be included in their improved corridor. Which extends from 1st Avenue to 9th Avenue
and runs parallel to Main Street in downtown Longmont.
RTD was one of five agencies selected to participate in research conducted by the Urban Institute on
behalf of APTA. The research project aimed to assess short- and long-term impacts on transit agencies
and to solicit important lessons learned and to share those lessons industry wide as a result of the
pandemic. I, along with several Board members and members of the executive team, participated in an
interview to assist the project team's research gathering efforts, and each provided insight regarding their
own areas of expertise and experience.
The lessons learned will be used by APTA and other members of the Association to develop flexible and
agile responses to economic, health, and service development challenges amidst a vastly shifting
landscape replete with hiring challenges and shifts in working and commuting habits. During the
Transform conference held in Orlando, Florida, CEOs of the five agencies, which included LA Metro, the
Port Authority of Allegheny County and Pittsburgh, the Greater Richmond Transit Company in Richmond,
Virginia, and the Spokane Transit Authority in Spokane, Washington, in addition to myself, who
participated telephonically, spoke on behalf of RTD and addressed attendees to share our collective
takeaways from the research efforts.
It's important to note that all five CEO panelists were women, highlighting the industry's embracing of
diversity as a shared value.
Moving on to customer excellence. As you are aware-- the Board, that is, collectively-- I've been working
with Adams County officials since August to put in place a short- and long-term solution to reduce the
distance customers walk when accessing the Adams County Justice Center from the Route 520 transit
stops along Bromley Lane in the city of Brighton. As of this afternoon, the Adams County Manager and I
have fully executed a memorandum of understanding regarding this matter. Adams County, in

conjunction with the city of Brighton, have agreed to construct the necessary improvements to meet ADA
standards and allow for new transit stops to be established at the intersection of Bromley Lane and
Judicial Center Drive.
Due to the easements required by the private landowner on the north side of Bromley Lane, Adams
County staff is completing the work on the south side of Bromley in the coming weeks before December
31, 2021, with plans to complete the north side in the spring. During the construction activities, over the
next couple of weeks RTD will implement a temporary detour service on Route 520 that will utilize a
smaller 30-foot bus and serve the former bus stop on Judicial Center Drive. This smaller vehicle is able to
traverse the narrow street and is more agile with its turning radius. This detour is anticipated to
commence next week and it will sunset on December 31, as we have solidified that in our memorandum
of understanding.
I will be meeting with the Adams County Manager tomorrow morning, Wednesday, November 17, as we
finalize the details relating to the detour.
Next up, I'd like to share with you that RTD has engaged in ongoing discussions with local stakeholders in
and around the Denver Union Station. And this group, collectively known as Citizens for Safety, are
hoping to address unwanted activities occurring in the heart of Denver, including the areas surrounding
Denver Union Station and the bus concourse. The group is composed of a number of community
organizations, homeowners associations, and business interests, as well as Denver Police Department,
all of whom are invested in addressing the increase in drug activity and violence and the erosion of public
space and safety, particularly within the city center.
I have heard from numerous Board members and employees who have echoed the concerns of these
local stakeholders and I have personally witnessed unwelcome activity firsthand. The problems the
community engagement group intends to address are chronic and systemic issues experienced
throughout the Denver Metro area and not solely centered around RTD facilities. And as such, RTD is
seeking to have a seat at the table in order to lean in and be part of the solution, and I have made a
commitment to this group to personally attend the meetings, in addition to our Chief of Transit Police.
To address these chronic issues holistically and over an extended period, the steering committee of the
community engagement group has established guiding principles with aim to seek information and data
on the underlying causes of the ongoing issues, provide funding, where helpful, to advocate for better
policy responses, provide constant feedback to public partners about both effective and ineffective
remediation measures, engage with elected leaders to establish outcomes that make the Denver Metro
area safe for all stakeholders, and implement enforcement policies to provide better outcomes and safety
for vulnerable residents and visitors alike and restore individuals' ability to enjoy public spaces to ensure
that businesses and residents are able to prosper.
The steering committee has identified additional partners, funding needs, and logistical and administrative
matters to be addressed in the near term. And just this afternoon, I received the meeting cadence for the

next couple of weeks into the early new year in reference to our plan that's being put forward to help
mitigate the issues that I've outlined.
Moving on to employee ownership, I want to speak quickly about COVID-19, its impacts and employee
vaccination efforts. As you may be well aware, the Delta variant has accounted for 100% of COVID-19
cases here in Colorado. As of Sunday, November 14, Colorado ranked third highest in the nation for new
COVID-19 cases per capita. As of last week, an estimated 1 in 48 Coloradans is currently infected with
COVID-19. According to state data, 81% of the 1,476 people that are hospitalized with COVID-19 are
unvaccinated.
Considering these statistics and in light of the particularly high incidence of COVID-19 cases in the
counties served by RTD, last week I announced to employees a reduction in the capacity of all operating
and administrative facilities to 25% capacity. All employees and contractors are required to wear facial
coverings, except in certain specific circumstances, and are highly encouraged, but not required, to seek
an initial vaccination or vaccine booster as soon as possible. In partnership with Denver Public Health,
pop-up clinics for vaccine boosters and flu vaccinations for employees are being held at Denver
International Airport. For dates and times, employees can contact the Human Resources Division. And it's
also accessible, the dates and times, on our intranet, known as The Hub.
Employees receiving a COVID-19 vaccination or booster are eligible for paid time-off incentives. As I
mentioned last month, for anyone who has not yet received an initial vaccine dose, it is not too late to do
so. Vaccinations are also available at Kaiser Permanente offices as well as community sites in Denver,
including the Health Center at Auraria, located at 955 Lawrence Way, and the Capitol Heights Pharmacy,
located at 1200 Madison Street. Additionally, most Walgreen stores are offering vaccinations, as well as
CVS, and RTD continues to partner with health officials to offer the use of Park-n-Ride facilities to host
vaccine clinics, with smaller pop-up clinics being held in various locations around the district.
And as you are more than aware of, this past Thursday, November 17, was Veterans Day. And RTD is
fortunate, as are the agency's customers, for the many employees who have served in defense of this
nation and who contribute to the agency's successes every day through their passion, respect,
trustworthiness, diversity, collaboration, and spirit of ownership. In recognition of their service, veterans
have received specialized mugs. And anyone who has not yet received theirs can contact their
supervisors or managers.
And in closing, in advance of November 25, which is Thanksgiving, please accept my gratitude and
appreciation for each of you on the Board for your steadfast commitment to provide mobility options to
those in and around the Denver Metro area, especially to those most in need. To the nearly 3,000
employees that comprise the Regional Transportation District, I am thankful every day to work among
dedicated and talented people who give of themselves 24/7, 365 to make lives better through
connections.
And with that, Madam Chair, my report is concluded. Thank you very kindly.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Are there any questions or comments for the
General Manager? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did have just one, maybe more than one quick
question about the Urban Institute. Is that research available for our viewing, General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it is. I'll be more than happy to provide the report to the Board. And I will send
that in a separate transmittal before week's end.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I also wanted to just congratulate you on the work that
you've done in Adams County. I know we hear often that RTD is the agency of no. And I think it's a fine
example of RTD can say yes when it is feasible, right, when it's feasible. And so thank you for your
continued work and also for continuing to update us on the work that you've been doing in that area.
Those are the only two things I had. Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And to echo Director Lewis, congratulations on really
ironing out those issues with the 520. And goes to show that elected and appointed officials and can
really work together well collaboratively, IN good spirit. So thank you for that.
And so my question, though, is about the COVID vaccinations you mentioned. Walgreens and CVS, do
you know if those are free to RTD drivers?
DEBRA JOHNSON: They're free to everyone. Yes, they are.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're quite welcome, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that conclude your questions? OK. Thank you, sir.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I'm also thankful for
the work that you've done. And I'm very thankful for our retirees' work, quite a bit of dedication. It was
great to see so many of them.
So my question is kind of regarding to the limits-- I know you're talking about a safety project regarding
the downtown area. And I know anecdotally what I've noticed is you've mentioned, and then anecdotally
I've heard from my constituents, is specifically the light rail vehicles going to the downtown area and then
coming back from the downtown area. And I was just kind of curious if, as we try to work to kind of

understand a little bit better regarding safety wise, does our reach extend past the downtown area and
then to the vehicles that might transport to, specifically, I know down in District G, I've gotten a couple
questions about it. Because individuals who are riding our vehicles, specifically the light rail again, and
just kind of questions regarding if they're actually riding as true customers or just riding to ride.
So I'm just kind of curious. So my question is, would our extent of looking into the safety expand to where
the vehicles ultimately arrive and depart? And I'm happy to clarify, too.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. I think I will need some clarification. But first and foremost, in reference to the
report that I provided, we're talking about safety and security issues that have been plaguing Union
Station, and specifically as we look at the bus concourse. I've had the opportunity to engage with a
multitude of employees. As I shared during the report, I have witnessed things firsthand, have been victim
of verbal assaults and things of the like. So what we're trying to do is create an environment where we
have our customers and our employees not being hindered or fearful of their safety in light of activity that
is less than welcoming in and around the bus concourse, first and foremost. So that's the intent of this
group here.
So as we talk about holistically and we speak to non-destination riding customers, one thing's for certain. I
would be more than willing to engage with you offline so I better garner an understanding. Because the
operative word there in which we're talking about is public, public transit. And so recognizing that we do
have an open fare system without any hardened infrastructure, it's difficult in reference to mitigating that.
So I need to better understand what your concerns are. And I'm more than willing to lean in and try to
help come up with some discussion around what that may be.
From my experience, when I've gone out in the system and I have engaged with other jurisdictions, it's my
understanding that there's concern with individuals that are experiencing homelessness that may get on
one of our vehicles and they are transported to a different jurisdiction. And so as we talk about things
collectively, these are societal issues. And recognizing that RTD alone can't solve them, that's why I'm
engaging in a myriad of different forums, recognizing that all of us need to lean in and do something
collectively, but there's outstanding policies that need to be mitigated as well as we go forward.
Because while we have frontline employees, recognizing that it's not fair, they're not sworn law
enforcement officers, to try to mitigate those other issues that have plagued us that have been
exacerbated through the course of the pandemic and also by different jurisdictions maybe closing off
areas in which individuals were utilizing previously, and they've been shifted to the greater Denver Union
Station area. And you may have folks that are fare evaders that are utilizing our system to go elsewhere.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, perfect. I think what I am trying to target down is just kind of the scope of it.
But it seems like this would be more of a focus regarding the Union Bus Station concord, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is, in this instance. But as a greater issue, recognizing we did have an APTA
peer review, we're working on a blueprint as relates to community policing holistically, I do endeavor to
share that information with you in the beginning of the new year that would factor in some of the elements
in which you're talking. But this specific Citizens for Safety endeavor that just got underway more

specifically with some of the business owners and developers, quite naturally, are targeted for Denver
Union Station, since that is a major intermodal hub in which there is a lot of activity.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. And the last answer of the peer review really helps me out to know that we'll
be getting some answers come the new year. Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're quite welcome. Thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I too would be remiss to not say a sincere thank you for
the work of Adams County Justice Center and the 520. I appreciate the updates. I've had many micro
updates between Board meetings. And in order for us to communicate to our elected leaders at NATA
and on the streets and in Brighton and other places, it's been a county-wide concern. So I applaud the
good work there, and as Director Lewis says, the ability to say yes and say yes in several different ways.
Just want to make sure that we announce the temporary service as soon as it's ready for prime time for
those folks up there and make sure we get the word to the DA's office and the other interested parties as
well. So thank you, Ms. Johnson and Mr. Davies, for your work on resolving that issue. It's quite creative
and serves as a pattern for future solutions. I think that's all.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. if I may, that's the intent of our meeting tomorrow
morning, to make sure that we're aligned on communication tactics, so no one's out doing one or the
other because it's a true partnership. So thank you very much for your comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually forgot to ask this. So I had a few constituents
in. And I'll just preface this that I've had this issue on both sides, where constituents have shared
concerns about individuals not wearing their masks on our services, and I've also heard from constituents
where they have seen lots of folks wearing their mask within our services.
And so it's not a question that I anticipate that you can answer in this moment or in real time, but
something that I just wanted to bring up as it's come to me, and maybe an opportunity for us to talk about
what our policies are. What I hear is that there's a desire for enforcement. And I also understand that we
don't necessarily have the staff and sometimes we can't enforce our way out of folks just not wanting to
wear a mask. But maybe you can come back in your next report with some ideas or some conversation or
dialogue in which we might be able to share with our constituents when they bring those concerns to us
as Board members.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis and Madam Chair, if I may, I would like to address some element of
that right here, if I may.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing as we talk about the requirements that have been placed before us as it
relates to TSA, we are having some individuals that aren't compliant. Hence, in my report when we talk
about those that are hospitalized due to the Delta variant, 81% are unvaccinated. So you're going to have
an element of our population that has their mind set on what it is they'd like to do, recognizing that we
have all seen various media reports as relates to those people becoming somewhat indignant when
they're on aircraft and actually assaulting frontline employees, be they flight attendants or be they
customer care agents in airports and things of the like.
One thing that we have done across the board, and I do engage frequently with representatives of the
Federal Transit Administration as we talk about what it is we're doing, as well as my kitchen cabinet
relative to other CEOs in this transit space, we have to be earnest in reference to what it is that we are
doing, because we're coming from a place where there is the policy to mask up. It was these mandates
without any direction in reference to ensuring that people are being compliant. And as I have shared with
you before, my concern is about our frontline employees. And I would like them to return to the divisions
in the evening in the manner in which they left.
And so what we have done thus far is basically procured additional masks that our employees can hand
out as a way to encourage customers, when they don't have a mask, to wear. And so that's something, a
step in the direction in which we're taking. But it's a very challenging environment in reference to saying
that somebody is going to have to wear a mask when they don't want to, and especially to put that on
frontline employees that don't have the support system on board a moving vehicle in which to do so.
So recognizing that conversations have ensued with the FTA, with our region specifically, being Region 8,
about ideas, we're all open to that. But as relates to people power aspect around all of this, we're still in a
Catch-22 with what's being asked of us. So I just wanted to provide that in this forum to manage
expectations, because I really don't have any type of magical response to address that issue. Because it
plagues us all. When I go into grocery stores and things of the like, I often see myself, aside from those
helping me check out my groceries, I'm the only one wearing a mask.
So let me stop rambling at this point. But I thought I'd be remiss not to take this opportunity to put that out
there and let you know it's something that my team and I have been discussing. It's issues that are
broached with our employees. I get emails directly from them about what are we doing as we go forward.
So it's a very complex and complicated issue.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, CEO Johnson. And that's actually sufficient, so I appreciate you
opining on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wonder if the Board could get a short brief update on the
redevelopment of the 16th Street Mall.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam CEO.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So are you asking for an update right now in this present time, or are you asking for
a subsequent report to be provided to this body?
BOB BROOM: Well, I thought just a brief update, just so we know when it's going to start or what's going
on.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So at a very high level, in reference to us being in final design as it relates to the
project, there are a couple of issues in which we're trying to address relative to us being on the 16th
Street Mall in and of itself. Because that is a fixed guideway for our battery electric buses. We-- and when
I say we, I, specifically in conjunction with members of my team, being Henry Stopplecamp, has been
very versed in this, as well as we work with our partners at the City and County of Denver trying to
mitigate a solution going forward so we will not be taken off the mall, to minimize adverse impacts to
those utilizing our free transit Mall Ride along the corridor.
On Thursday, I do have a follow-up meeting, as we go forward with our partners at the City and County of
Denver, more specifically in the city manager's office, or I should say, in the city, in the mayor's office, as
we talk about where we are going forward. So that's a very high level of where we are.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're quite welcome, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Seeing no other Board members in the queue, I would like to bring
forward our public hearing on the 2022 proposed budget.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to order the public hearing on the Regional Transportation
District's proposed budget for the year 2022. In accordance with both RTD's requirements and local
government statutes, notice of the public hearing was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager
to the Board of Directors. The notice was published in two major daily newspapers of the District prior to
this meeting and on the RTD website. This public hearing will be conducted under the rules and
regulations for public hearings adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District,
and a copy of those rules will be part of the record of this hearing.
The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the budget-- to the subject of public
hearing, and the presentations of the testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony
should be presented to Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors, for distribution
to the Board.
The proposed 2022 budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board and the public to review.
Ms. McManus, is there anyone in the queue to speak to the Board about the 2022 proposed budget?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no hands from attendees, no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We did receive one piece from the Downtown Denver Streets Partnership,
correct?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And I also see that Paolo Solorzano would like to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Paolo, go ahead, sir. You have three minutes.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. Thank you. I think this is the right place to ask this. Just around the budget, I
am wondering just about the-- or my question is, is the ongoing lawsuit with the contractor with the light
rail-- it's escaping my mind right now, I think it's Denver, who I forgot-- but it's $80 million, I think, and it's
ongoing right now and it's over the signal issues on the light rail tracks. And then, is that being
considered? Or how much has that taken away from the budget, I guess, my question? And then also, the
same question for the lawsuit for $100 million that was lost by RTD. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Ms. McManus, is there any other person on the line?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public hearing
for the 2022 proposed budget at this time. With that in mind, do we have a motion to adopt the 2022
proposed budget?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movant of Director Williams and a second of Director Catlin. Is
there any discussion on this motion?
Seeing none, I will now call for the vote. Oh, Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, Madam Chair, I don't know what our convention is for public comment. But that
question had been brought up in a prior discussion about it. And I'd rely on General Counsel Snyder. But
to the extent he did raise a question, is there a staff member who can address it? I think we've already
had it addressed for the Board, but just since we'd had a question about it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I can speak to the status of the litigation. And then I
would defer to Doug MacLeod about the outstanding potential liability from any judgment and how we're
addressing that in the budget or not.
The Denver district court judge has had the post-trial briefings before him since December 15 of last year
and we're just awaiting a decision from him. That could come at any day. But there's really no update, at
this point, on that litigation.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Chair Cook, is that good?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, unless CFO MacLeod had anything to add. But thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening. Yes, we did not account for anything in the
budget regarding the litigation. However, we do have some options coming up in terms of a refinancing
that we'd like to propose to the Board that will save quite a bit in interest savings. We plan to bring that
information forward in the early part of 2022. We also have a budget underrun we believe will be fairly
sizable in 2021 that we can carry forward into the new year. So we do believe we have funding available
to handle those types of issues that may arise.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are you good?
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks so much. Yeah, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Wonder if we could get a comparison with the 2021 budget as to how much did the budget
go up this year or go down. It's kind of hard to discern by looking at the materials that were included in the
packet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I was just looking at the budget package. I believe we
do have a comparison in there. Pardon me while I look for a moment here.
Yes. Sorry, it's Attachment A withing the budget package. I'm sorry, I don't know what page that is within
the Board package. However, for operating expenses excluding depreciation, the 2021 amended budget
is $691.3 million. And the 2022 budget is $771 million. So an increase of approximately $79 million, most
of which is for the increase in service that will be provided in 2022.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I'll look a little closer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Regarding the question that was raised during the
public hearing-- and I apologize, I think we indicated that the public hearing was closed after that one
question. But for the sake of the record, just to note that that did close, there were actually two items that
were raised by the questioner, I guess Mr. Solorzano.
The first one was regarding what is referred to as the Denver Transit Partners litigation. And that has
been fully addressed. It appeared as though-- and I apologize, my hearing may not have caught the
precision of the question-- but it appeared as though the questioner might have said that there was also a

$100 million loss or judgment. And I think for the sake of the record, we should point out, there is no $100
million loss or judgment pending against RTD. I just don't want some casual listeners or the media to
misrepresent that somehow there was a statement about a $100 million loss or judgment as to the RTD.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I'm seeing that Second Vice Chair Cook, Director Broom,
and Director Tisdale still have their hands raised. I just want to make sure there isn't anything else from
you. Director Broom? OK.
First Vice Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. As everyone knows, the IIJA, the Infrastructure Act,
passed. And we had a really excellent memo, I think it was a week or two ago, from Ms. Johnson. And I
think Michael Davies had helped with it, that I would point people back to, and that potentially we have
significant additional funding coming in, which is very exciting. And I assume-- it's mostly a comment-- but
I assume that you'd be coming back to us with amendments, if it does come in 2022. I know there's some
question whether they'll be moving forward with the continuing resolution or something else. Is that right,
Doug, Mr. MacLeod? If the money comes in in 2022, you just bring it back as an amendment?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod. Thank you.
Yes, correct. And certainly, we would want to discuss that. There will certainly be strings attached to that
in terms of what it would qualify for, the actual appropriation or the portioned amount to RTD. So we
would like some guidance from the FTA on that first. And certainly, we would bring that back to the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may, Madam Chair, just for some clarity. There's a lot of different funding
that's included in the IIJA. So in an effort to manage expectations, there's formula funding, there's
discretionary funding. And so I just want to ensure that we're talking about that there would be something
that would come forward if, in fact, there was an adjustment made to the formula funding in which we
would receive, recognizing what First Vice Chair Guissinger mentioned as relates to the continuing
resolution.
Because while the IIJA was signed into law yesterday, we're still operating under continuing resolution.
And so when we think FAST Act and Map 21 that were previous pieces of surface transportation law that
has been effectuated, we don't know where that may shore up for us. And for all good intents and
purposes, there is a lot of speculation about when that could be and we're looking at mid-term 2022. So
there's different types of funding that we could be eligible for, bus and bus facilities that are discretionary
grants and things of the like.
So I just wanted to ensure that everybody had an understanding of, we're talking about the color of
money here and not all of that would have to go through this process because we would be competing
with other entities for some monies under the IIJA grant funding opportunity. So thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I'm seeing no one else in the queue. So we have a motion by
Director Williams. And I apologize, the second was-PEGGY CATLIN: It was Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's what I thought. Thank you, Director Catlin.
I will now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on the 2022 proposed budget? Seeing none, it passes
unanimously with 15 votes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
Next is the unanimous consent. There are eight items on the unanimous consent agenda this evening.
They're listed under Items 13, Actions B through I. They are the paratransit scheduling and management
system, the purchase of 17 40-foot battery electric buses, the award of group 31 contracted fixed route
services, the 2022 public transportation agency safety plan, otherwise known as the PTASP, the systemwide fare study and equity analysis consultant, the release of the Sheraton parcel from certificates of
participation, the 2022 fiscal policy, and the 2022 investment policy.
If anyone has a change to or questions on any of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this
time and we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration
under recommended action. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hi. Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't know if it's necessary for you to pull any of
these from the consent agenda, but I just wanted to point out that I wasn't in attendance last Tuesday and
thus didn't have the opportunity to vote on the last three. I do support them and I'm not sure, in terms of
process, if I need to pull those from the consent agenda to officially vote on those.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to ask our General Counsel for that. General Counsel, can you
help us with that, please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Director Lewis,
you can vote on those, even though you weren't at the committee hearing last week.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I just want to clarify. Do I need to pull those from the consent agenda to do so, or
can I just allow them to stay there?
MELANIE SNYDER: You can allow them to stay there on the consent agenda.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Perfect. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. OK.

TROY L. WHITMORE: I move for approval, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And that was Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is the second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, I have a movant of Director Whitmore, a second of Director Buzek.
Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, it passes unanimously. Thank you so much.
This evening, there are two recommended actions on the agenda. They are listed as the 2022
redistricting criteria and procedures. And that is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 redistricting
criteria and procedures in accordance with the following discussion as recommended by Chair RiveraMalpiede and Directors Broom and Sloan. Do I have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movant of Director Sloan and a second of First Vice Chair
Guissinger. Is there any discussion on this motion?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hi. I'd like to offer an amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So the amendment would read-- actually two, and they'd be numbered. The
Redistricting Committee will hold no less than 15 public meetings during the redistricting process to
receive comments from interested and impacted parties. And then the second, the Redistricting
Committee will hold at least three public hearings prior to Board approval and adoption of a redistricting
plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second on the amendment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a first of Director Lewis and a second of Director Bouquet. Any
discussion on this item? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'm going to try to speak quickly because my dog has
been going in and out of barking pretty aggressively.

So I think this is great. I think it's important that we, as a Board, codify our commitment to soliciting
feedback from the public as part of our process. So certainly support and looking forward to other
discussion, if there is any.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes. Just a quick question for the two committee members or staff. Is this
workable with our timeline? This being the proposed amendment from Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to ask our-- I don't see Mr. Van Meter, if we need a-- are you
asking for a staff's response in terms of the timeline, whether this might change that, Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. Johnson-- or I see Mr. Van Meter. Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager, Planning. So I haven't
had much time to kind of cross-reference schedules nor understand, as I'm just hearing about this, what
the proposed timing would be. I think the Board will recall that our statutory deadline is March 15, and we
are working on a very tight schedule. Having said all of that, presuming that we continue apace, if it's the
Board's prerogative and direction to do this, I don't think that this would be a make or break deal,
presuming we had latitude to schedule it aggressively and effectively.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I have a couple questions. One is, and I saw this late, I can't recall, did
we have a requirement for a certain number of meetings at this point? Is this, I guess maybe this question
for Director Lewis. And then, is the 15 meeting idea that we have one in each district, or are we doing-- I
assume we'd be doing Zoom. If you could just kind of explain. I totally agree, we need to have good public
hearing and comment. I guess I'm wondering if that's-- it's a lot. So just wondering.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: And I can answer the latter, but can you tell me your first question? I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The first question was-- what was the one you were going to answer, and then I'll-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So the 15. It was 15 for 15 Directors. I'm happy to have a discussion about that, if
they-- [BABY FUSSING]. I'm sorry, he does this every time I turn off my mic. I'm happy to have a
discussion about this, about the 15, if you all would like to talk about the 15. But it was essentially
because we have 15 Directors, and it would allow us the opportunity to really delve into communities of
interest, to delve into the precincts, because we haven't really been able to do that and do so in
partnership with the communities that are impacted by the decision, essentially.

And I don't recall your first question, I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: My first question, maybe for you, it may be for someone else, is do we have a
requirement for a certain number of public meetings and public hearings currently that we're planning to
do with the redistricting?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'll answer the first part and I'll let other folks chime in. We've had some
conversations in the Redistricting Committee about public engagement and never really landed on a set
number of meetings or dates or the cadence or any of that. And so that's essentially why I'm bringing it
forward, as an opportunity to really memorialize that and put those in to our planning in a real way.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'm open to listening to comments. I think it's a great idea to put something
in. I'm wondering, we don't have usually a huge turnout. I'm wondering if we could combine three districts
and do five meetings, or something along those lines, just in terms of staff time and efficiency, something
like that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm open to it. I mean, I know it's another amendment to the amendment. And so I
want to honor that, I'm sure you all are ready to go home, but I'm also open to that discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's all I have right now. I'll just listen to others and see where we are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Actually my comments were very much aligned with First Vice Chair
Guissinger, and just because I'm very mindful of staff time, particularly over the holidays, and if there
could be a way to consolidate some of that. I think 15 is a lot. It's a heavy lift for staff. And I appreciate
AGM Bill Van Meter saying that it's not impossible. But I'm thinking that that's quite a lot to ask of them. I
have a question.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Can I answer that, Director Catlin? Just so I don't forget that first one. I just have a
hard time when they're stacked, and I want to make sure I'm addressing it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. If you'd like to give me, like if you have a
recommendation, I'm happy to accept that recommendation for a different or better number.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't yet, but I am willing to listen, as Director Guissinger said.
I have a couple questions that might put it in slightly better perspective for me, anyway. Number one is,
10 years ago, how many meetings did we hold for this topic? And the second part of my question is, how
many meetings were held for the legislature, both the legislative and congressional redistricting
processes that just resulted in the revised maps?

Those are my two questions. And if the numbers aren't readily available, maybe if it could just be
answered later. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. Bill Van Meter. I have no idea regarding the second part of that
question in terms of the Congressional redistricting. And my best recollection of 10 years ago, relying on
memory on the spot, was that there was one meeting and one opportunity held for public comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal. Oh, you're muted, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I keep pressing the unmute. My apologies. Just wasn't activated.
So yeah, I do share some of the concern about 15 meetings, kind of squishing those in and the ability to
meet our schedule. And so given that, let's just say, it was about one meeting last time, I think two would
be sufficient. I am also very concerned about staff time, but also making sure that the public is engaged,
but also to the extent that they wish to participate.
So maybe they COULD also be combined with one of our future meetings. Perhaps staff could let us
know, how many more meetings we have for the Board. And perhaps it could be at one of these. It
doesn't necessarily-- because we have public comment process. And so someone could just, during one
of our future meetings, can just pipe in and say, hey, by the way, I think this is good, this is bad, this is
indifferent, in terms of redistricting. So I'm not certain that we need to create new meetings necessarily,
above and beyond maybe one or two. But my preference is to include some of that feedback in some of
our future Board meetings, as a possibility. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Might I respond?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me do Director Cook, so I can get through the queue, and then you can
respond, if you don't mind.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: In transparency, I can't keep up with all of them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, then please, please respond, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Chair, to respond to Director Caitlin's question about how many meetings they had
for the Congressional districts. I just text. And for each of the district, they had roughly six public
meetings, public ones, and had a number of meetings behind the scenes with minority leaders. And so I
just wanted to answer that question.
And I just wanted to say thank you for your feedback, Director Rosenthal. I'm happy to take that into
consideration.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then, Director Lewis, just for transparency, can you cite your source for
that?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. I just, I don't know if you heard me, I said I just checked in with Director, or
with Senator Coleman and asked how many meetings they had had.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. And agree with some of the comments about the
concern with the number of meetings. And actually, we only recently affirmed the idea of soliciting public
comment, along with the process that led to these guidelines tonight. And I guess if this fails, what I'd like
to see happen is that the staff bring through the committee, the ad hoc committee that you created,
Madam Chair, a recommended program for public outreach, rather than specifying it right here tonight. So
thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'll keep it quick. I like the suggestion that kind of
coming together between Director Lewis and First Vice Chair Guissinger that maybe we do a reduced
amount. I don't know whether Director Lewis, you'd consider a friendly amendment to fewer than five
meetings, or something along those lines. But I did just want to add, First Vice Chair Guissinger triggered
a thought that actually having multiple Directors and some crossover could help some discussion for
those of us in districts where there's some of that complex overlap, and I know many of us feel that. So
perhaps even having fewer meetings could encourage getting multiple Directors present in multiple
districts.
So I don't have a specific suggestion and maybe just throw that out there for the group, that perhaps
there's a friendly amendment forming, but just wanted to share those thoughts. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Davidson. I actually hadn't considered that. And I think that's
actually a really good idea, to think about having three Directors overlapping so that we might just have a
conversation. I like it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. It'd be a lot easier to have this conversation if we had a look at
what's going to be proposed as the first cut as far as the redistricting itself. I mean, if it turns out there's
just a few changes to be made, then we're making much to do about nothing. If it turns out there are
significant changes that are going to be proposed because of the change in population level, then it may
make sense to have maybe three meetings and have five Districts at a time that are contiguous, just to
make it manageable rather than throwing the whole thing into 15 different conversations. Because it's

going to be awful hard to keep track of what people are saying and which District they're referring to and
so forth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I would just point out that the recommended action itself provides
the flexibility that I believe we need in determining the number of public outreach meetings we should
have when it says, the Board will invite and allow for public comment on the proposed 2022 district map
prior to final adoption. So we, in conjunction with the staff, can figure out what that looks like as we go
and keep it fluid. I think that's sufficient. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And Director Dishell, since you spoke, let me go to Director
Sloan and then I'll come back to you. Is that OK? Cool. Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director Dishell. I appreciate having this
as a written email so that I can review it. But I do have a few questions for Director Lewis. As I see, there
are two different categories of meetings. There are public meetings with stakeholders and three public
hearings of the entire committee, I believe. And you mentioned that the legislative redistricting process
included identification of affected groups and meetings particularly directed to hear their concerns. Is that
something that's in the 15 public meetings that you're suggesting?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Is that something-- can you clarify what you mean by is that something?
MARJORIE SLOAN: The identification of people particularly affected by the redistricting and meetings
targeted directly to their concerns.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I think the 15 was meetings targeted directly to individual Districts. More
specifically, I was thinking about precincts and that level of detail. Does that help?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It does. Because I was interested, when you mentioned about there were kind of
sub meetings that were held for the legislative process.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. So what I was mentioning is that, for example, Senator Coleman said that
representatives and senators held meetings within their districts but held, for example, Senator Coleman
held six meetings within his district. And then other reps, Representative Leslie Herod had meetings that
she would hold in her district. Does that help? So I'm not suggesting that we have, that each of us hold
six, but that the collective of us hold 15. Again, negotiable.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Madam Chair, one more question, if it's OK, just to clarify this. So really, you're
suggesting 18 meetings, 15, or a combination of the 15 District meetings, and then the Redistricting
Committee alone would have three public hearings. Is that correct?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. And I'll tell you, Director Sloan, on that, and I'll be honest with you, it's
assuming that there are significant changes or a significant input that would cause the maps to change or

the process to change in a significant way and to allow the public to come again, I guess have a second
bite at the apple, with those three meetings that I outlined, before we adopted the plan as a Board.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you for that explanation. I appreciate it, Director.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No, thanks for the question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess I'm asking of the room in general. So we're not
changing the District. The RTD District as a whole is still going to be the RTD district as a whole, is that
correct? I guess, Mr. Van Lear, you can-- Van Meter, you can answer that one.
BILL VAN METER: That is correct. It's just the boundaries for representation, not the District boundaries
as a whole.
KATE WILLIAMS: And is it true, additionally, that each of the Directors will have the same number of
constituents?
BILL VAN METER: If this resolution passed, plus or minus 5%.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So what we are discussing here is whether people who now live in my District
object to being in Director Lewis' District, or vice versa. Is that what the subject matter here is? Anybody?
Or whether Director Cook's people object to being in Director Malpiede's District, or-- that's what we're
talking about, right? Or am I misunderstanding something here?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't think we're there yet, Director Williams.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, sorry, Rivera, go ahead. I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I don't think we're there yet. And I think Director Broom talked about it
in terms of, we don't know. We haven't seen the redistricting maps until the next meeting, correct, Mr. Van
Meter? So we really don't know at this point.
KATE WILLIAMS: So we're going to have 18. We're having a proposal here to have 18 meetings about
something that we don't know how it's going to go. Is that correct?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You know, I think what you're asking, Director Williams, is about the process. And
this came to the Executive Committee and now is at the Board meeting. And so we didn't have a
discussion in the Redistricting Committee about what the process was in terms of specificity for public
engagement. And so we've seen three drafts of the maps, if you will. And so this would give an
opportunity for once we have a discussion as we're moving forward in this process, to have communities
to engage in the process in a meaningful way.

And so the answer is yes, and I think we kind of have an idea that there are going to be some tweaks and
some changes to districts just because of density in some areas, such as B, A, and C-- those are the
ones I can think of off the top of my head. I think Director Guissinger's as well. Those are the ones I can
think of off the top of my head. And so that's essentially what we're talking about.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thanks. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other comments or questions? Yes, General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. General Counsel Melanie Snyder. Just an additional
piece of information for everyone to keep in mind. So the congressional redistricting plan was approved
by the state Supreme Court on earlier this month. And then just yesterday, the state Supreme Court
approved the state legislative redistricting plan. So right now, it's my understanding that the counties have
actually until January 31 to update the voter precinct maps. So I just share that with, and because RTD's
statute must respect and can't break up voter precincts, I just wanted you to keep that in mind that it might
not make sense necessarily to have a bunch of meetings before we see what those voter precinct maps
look like. And I think that that's something that was discussed a little bit in the ad hoc committee that,
does it make sense to create other versions of maps when those might be substantially fixed, based on
the voter precinct maps that the counties end up adopting, understanding also that that might not happen
until the very end of January.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Williams, are you complete? OK, great. Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I really do appreciate the desire to have a number of public M but I
think we have a number of unanswered M among them being the precincts, the map, the draft map that
we have not seen yet. And I think that when we have a little bit more information, then we can make a
more deliberate approach to outlining a public meeting strategy. So just right now to prescribe 15 plus 3
seems, in my mind, to. Be a great intent but maybe premature. So that's all I had.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis, I appreciate the flexibility and putting it out there to discuss. Would
you be open to asking our Redistricting Committee and staff to come up with the plan, given the time
constraints that Ms. Snyder was just talking about? And I think they've heard the desire for some
definition. And I guess that would be my suggestion. What do you think?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Tell me your suggestion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That we turn it back over to Director Broom and Director Sloan and Bill Van Meter
and his staff to come up with a plan that's workable and look at what the options are and bring it back.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: And I don't say this because there's a lack of trust. I could say this because I think
there's a lack of specificity within the way that it's currently written, is that the way that it's currently written

doesn't explicitly say when we are going to be engaging the public and at what points we are going to be
engaging the public. And so my intent is that we get a little more clear on that engagement. And so
maybe the ask, and I'm willing to entertain this, the ask is, can we reduce the number of meetings with the
understanding that January, that we might have additional information in January and that cadence might
make more sense. But I think to just to remove it, I just get a bit hesitant, to be honest with you, Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'll let others speak again and we'll see where we are then.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to everyone who's spoken. I just want to
address a few points that were raised. I think first is to look historically at the amount of access we've
granted to the public. As a benchmark, 10 years ago is not the most prudent approach when we're
focusing on equity and inclusion, because many rules in our politics in general were designed around
exclusion. And so relying on the past to inform what we should do in the present may not always be the
most prudent choice. And that goes to comments about how this is much ado about nothing, which is, we
don't know that unless we ask people.
I think a question I have for staff is-- and this may sound a little silly-- but how long does it take to get a
well published public meeting out there in the world?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say ultimately, at a minimum of three weeks. Because people have an
understanding of generally what they're doing two weeks in advance. Optimally, I would say four weeks, if
you're looking to garner full fledged participation. And this is someone speaking from a place that did
public meetings early on and would have ample public meetings in the People's Republic of San
Francisco.
So with that as a backdrop, I'm just sharing that in order to ensure you're going to have people attend,
you have to leverage a multitude of conduits. And so if you wait till the 11th hour, that's generally what
you get. Because we, as busy people, know what we already have planned two, three, four weeks out.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. That's helpful. Because I think from my perspective, if we're not going to have
all information until January 31, and we want to start having meetings, let's say, to give people a week in
February, there's about seven weeks, or six weeks of total meeting time where the public could be fully
informed. And Director Lewis, maybe, curious if you'd be amenable to amending that sentence where we
invite public comment to have something to the effect of asking staff to come back to us to detail the
process for no fewer than six meetings, which would be about one meeting per week, in that time period
between February and the end of March, with enough time for us to vote on it as a Board by the end of
March. I think my math is generally close?

So maybe it's no fewer than four, no more than six, some language like that that we basically asked
people so that the first meeting of January, we can approve a plan that's incredibly well founded that
would end up equating to about one meeting a week between the end of January and the end of March.
Because we would need to vote on the last week of March to approve. Is my timing generally accurate
there? Apologies if that was somewhat circular.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No, I just want to make sure I am catching what you are saying. So if I were to
reread it, the Redistricting Committee will hold no fewer than four and no more than six public meetings
during the redistricting process to receive comments from interested and impacted parties. Or did I miss
something?
BOBBY DISHELL: Impacted parties, and will present a plan for Board approval at the January Board, the
January, 2022 Board meeting.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure.
BOBBY DISHELL: Or maybe it doesn't need Board approval. But at least keep us informed at the January
meeting of what the plan is. Because by the first week of January, if we get four weeks, then we should
know what our plan is for the first week of February, which is when the latest time period for when people
would be fully informed as to what the maps look like.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure. I'm open to it. The Redistricting Committee will hold no fewer than four and
no more than six public meetings during the redistricting process review to receive comments from
interested and impacted parties and will present a plan for Board approval during our January '22
meeting. January 2022 meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: That works.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So I'll have to take my original motion off the table. But I will get-- you can take a
comment from Director Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, your comment, please, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so I guess I would be cautious to conflate
congressional redistricting, legislative redistricting with Board of RTD Directors redistricting. There is no
more political process than the legislative and congressional redistricting. It is partisan. It is slugfest. It is
completely different. And so I don't even think it's in the same wheelhouse. And so I think that process is-I don't even know that we can call attention to that and then bring that concept in, except to say that we
do have to always keep in mind our communities of interest. But at the same time that we don't go to that
example and say, well, this is a good example. I really don't think it is.
And then I would say also with numbers of meetings, we get some of our best feedback and comments
not at public meetings. We get the best feedback and comments by email and phone calls and emails to
the Board Office, emails to us. And so I think more of a public campaign to get people to write in, things

like that, that would be the best. I mean, look, how many people called in tonight? Two, two people. And
we passed a budget, which is huge. It's monumental for this agency. We passed a huge budget tonight.
And so I guess I'm concerned that we would be going and creating all these meetings when, quite
honestly, we could combine them with meetings we already going to hold, whether it's, as I said, meetings
of this Board that we've already scheduled or, like say we're going to have service change meetings, why
can't we combine with service change meetings, where something we're already doing, and say we're
going to have these two issues together so that we have more-- so that it's more efficient, of the people's
time, of staff time. It's respectful to the public. It gives them an opportunity.
But again, they can always input at these meetings as well, that we already have. So that is sort of my
perspective as well on this issue. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would like to call for the motion. So Director-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I think when-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Might I respond?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I think we need to call for this motion first. And then if you want to do
another amendment, then you can bring that up. But I think what's on the floor is what you sent forward at
5:12 on the Redistricting Committee. If we could vote on that, since we've had all the discussion. And
then if you want to do another amendment, then you bring that forward, just to keep it clean.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: It might be helpful if I took the amendment off the table and added this
amendment, so we're not voting for-- so it's not just procedural. Because I'm going to put the notes
[INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I would like to ask our General Counsel. General Counsel, can you give
us some direction on this, please?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: We literally do this all the time.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do think it would be cleaner, since there was a
motion and a second. The motion's on the floor right now for the body to vote on. So it would be cleaner
to have the body vote on this motion to amend. And then if there's another motion that someone wants to
offer, that would be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. So the motion was by Director Lewis and the second by Director
Bouquet. What I'd like to do is this is the amendment that reads, the Redistricting Committee will hold no
less than 15 public meetings during the redistricting process to receive comments from interested and
impacted parties. The Redistricting Committee will hold at least three public hearings prior to Board voting
and adoptions of a redistricting plan.

So what I'd like to do is go through the list and do a vote. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Since the mover sounds like they're withdrawing this amendment, I'm going to vote
no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes, and I was not withdrawing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a no. So the vote is 13 nos and two yeses. The motion fails.
OK. Is there another amendment that you want to bring forward, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes. I will bring forward another motion. Thank you, Madam Chair.
The motion would read-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hold on. Let me write it down.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I need a clean piece of paper. OK, go ahead.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: The Redistricting Committee will hold no fewer than four and no more than six
public meetings during the redistricting process to receive comments from interested and impacted
parties and will present a plan for Board approval at our January, 2022 meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: And the second one would read the same.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So Lewis is the movant and Bouquet's the second. Is there any
discussion on this amendment? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry, just point of clarification. So does this mean that we have to come up with
the dates of all those meetings by January 31, or that they have to hold all those meetings by then? I
guess I was a little confused about the wording.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. We'll present a plan. And so the staff will let us
know when they would hold those meetings, by our January, 2020 meeting. 2022, excuse me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So the meetings themselves don't have to have been completed. There just
needs to be a plan of when they will be completed. Correct?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: That's correct. And that's from my understanding from General Counsel that we
might not have information to be able to hold those meetings before January 31.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I. See my sense is that if we have one or two expressly built meetings just dedicated
to redistricting, that's probably fine. But I think if we're going to hold more than that, they should be in
collaboration and on the same date as other meetings that are regularly scheduled that are already, as I
said, for service changes, that are already scheduled for this current Board as when we meet. We can
always hear testimony if somebody wants to contribute. But I don't think more than two dedicated just for
that purpose, I think that's sufficient.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I actually don't have any objection to that. And I
was going to comment earlier and let you know, I think we had talked about this at, I don't remember what
Board meeting, that our communities are really strapped for time. And the more often that we can bring
multiple issues to one meeting, the better. We talked about combining meetings with City and County of
Denver or with Boulder, et cetera, et cetera. And so I don't have any objection to that.
The one piece that I might pull out is, it's as much as about getting public comment and input from our
public as it is to providing them with education. And I think our staff does a really good job of presenting
the data in a way that's consumable. And so I hope that you're hearing that it's serving more than one
need in getting the input but also providing education on what redistricting is, how the process work, and
how folks are impacted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. Thanks for the new amendment, Director Lewis. I just
wanted to state, I guess for the record and the group's consideration, I am pretty supportive of this. I think
just in thinking about how rarely we do this, this gives us, I think, the best of both worlds. We wait until
January, we see what we have. This gives us an opportunity to go out to the public and reach out and
hear what we don't know.
I, for one, am very curious to hear from constituents on this. If we can advertise this, get this out there, try
to get some attendance. This is something that I actually do hear from folks about, but in small settings
and one-offs and just discussions when people aren't even realizing this is on the ballot with Directors. So
I think this is a good chance to hear from people, inform a little bit about this. Thanks for finding the
middle ground on it. Appreciate the chance to comment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate it. And just want to highlight for Director
Rosenthal that, as Director Lewis and I discussed this publicly, that when I proposed language, I kept it
intentionally vague such that it at the committee's discretion. It just says it has to be a public meeting.
Doesn't have to be a separate public meeting.
But also want to highlight and amplify what you had mentioned earlier about, as we think about evolving
as an agency, coming into the 21st century, of really pushing to solicit and compile feedback that we get
in means that are not just public comment. It used to be that that was one of the only ways you could
actually access people in public was to go track them down and call them on their phone. And now we
have the internet and all its wonderful things. So just some food for thought for the committee who's going
to come back with a plan of how to integrate some of those other means of connecting with people.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I see no one else in the queue, so I'd like to call for the question.
Director Lewis, can you read the amendment again? I wrote down as much as I could.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm happy to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure. I'm happy to. Give me three seconds here. So the Redistricting Committee
will hold no fewer than four and no more than six public meetings during the redistricting process to
receive comments from interested and impacted parties. The Redistricting Committee will hold at least
three public hearings prior to Board voting and adoption of a redistricting plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'm going to go down the line for the vote. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Did you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I did. Thank you.
All right. So-KATE WILLIAMS: And your vote, Chair? And really, I am a no, only because I'd like to see the committee
do their work. So I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, nine yeses and six nos. So it
passes. The amendment passes. So Director Lewis, if you would write that verbiage and send it over to
Ms. McManus so she could put it in the packet, that would be wonderful. Thank you. OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We're on to our second recommended action. And it is the approval
of the--

MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me. Pardon me, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: You just need to return back to the main motion on the [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. I'm so sorry. So the original motion is for the
2022 redistricting criteria and procedures, for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 redistricting criteria
and procedures in accordance with the following discussion as recommended by Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
Directors Broom and Sloan.
OK. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm a yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. So General Counsel, can you please explain this 15 yeses,
unanimous consent?
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair. You had 15, a vote of 15 to 0 to pass the recommended
action, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The original recommended action, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Correct. And it's with the amendments that [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is with the amendment, OK. Perfect.
All right. Now I can move on to the second recommended action, correct? Thank you so much.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're close. The second recommended action is the approval of the
Board expense reductions for 2022. For the Board to adopt the attached resolution, number blank, series
of 2021 concerning a reduction of the Directors' expense budget lines in fiscal year 2022 to offset revenue
shortfalls due to the COVID-19 impacts. Do we have a motion?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: So moved, Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Director Davidson.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movant of Director Lewis and a second of Director Davidson. Is
there any discussion on this motion? OK. Seeing none, are there any no votes? Seeing none, this moves- oh, Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: I'm going to be a no vote. I think this is overdoing it. My suggestion would be that we
would adopt maybe 85% of the 2019 budget as being our budget going forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. OK. So I think what I will do is see, are there any other no
votes? Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am a no only in the sense that I concur with
Director Broom that we may be sweeping with too broad a broom in this matter and that it might be
appropriate to reconsider that. Having said that, I am not uncomfortable with adopting a resolution for the
reason that this Board can always review and revise its budget going forward based upon new
circumstances, which might include increased funds from the IIJA. People need to understand that the
Board expense reimbursements that we provide are not for joy rides and frolic and detour, but rather for
conducting the business of this agency and meeting with stakeholders, constituents, riders and others.
But as I said, we can amend in the future too, as circumstances change. But for the sake of the record, I'll
pop in as a no. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to go to Ms. McManus first, Director Catlin.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to add that based on the last conversation we had on this subject
that we did add a component into this Board report that the change in the expense amount can be
amended by the Board at any time by doing a budget change.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm inclined to agree with Directors Tisdale and Broom. I have a very, very
large geographic area and no transit service to speak of, and there's pent up demand for additional
engagement with stakeholders. And so I try to be frugal, but I think that I'm inclined to vote no. And I hope
that we can get back to a more normal circumstance than we've experienced in the last 20 months. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore, I noticed your hand was up and now it's
down. Do you have a question or a comment, sir?
TROY L. WHITMORE: No, I'll pass. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So on the recommended action, I think I'm going to go through and
take a vote.
All right. Director Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. So there are three nos and 12 yeses, so the motion passes.
All right.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. There is no Executive Session on the agenda this evening. Is there
any old business to come before the Board?
Seeing none, is there any new business to come before the Board? Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Madam Chair, I'm a little confused on the situation that we had earlier tonight at
the beginning of this meeting. There was a statement made that we do not answer questions from the
public, that we take public comment but that we do not answer questions. Shortly thereafter, a question
was raised during the budget portion of the meeting. Director Cook repeated the question and then staff
answered the question.
So I'm confused on with the policy is, if we are going to answer questions only if they're repeated by a
Board member or if we don't answer questions or if we do answer questions. I understand that we accept
public comment. I'm asking what our policy is henceforth on public questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for that question. I'm going to ask the General Counsel to chime
in on this. Because it was a budget public hearing, which was different than the Board meeting. But
General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
So yes, Director Williams is correct that it has been our policy, or this Board's policy and practice, to
receive public comment but that it is not an interactive process where the public asks questions and staff
responDS to those questions. So that is certainly up to this Board's prerogative if you wanted to change
that. But that is generally the practice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams, does that answer your question?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Because we did it. So it was a mistake and we're not going to do it again, or we're
going to do it when we feel like it, or we're going back to the old policy or--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I think it's duly noted. But thank you for bringing that up. I mean, I do
think it is something we need to discuss.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did want to note for the sake of the record, and I
do appreciate former RTD Board Chair Lee Kemp mentioning my position at APTA. But let me note that
in addition to my being elected as the Chair of the APTA Transit Board Members Committee at our
meeting in Orlando last week, which I truly appreciate, and that's a committee that represents some 4,000
transit board members across the country at almost 600 transit agencies that are members of APTA. In
addition to that, Pauletta Tonilas, our AGM for Marketing Communications, who was elected as Chair of
the Marketing and Communications Committee at APTA. And I believe that our General Manager CEO
Debra Johnson is now the Vice Chair of the CEOs Commuter Rail Committee.
So we have a number of our folks actively participating in leadership roles at APTA, and I just thought it
was important to share that for the record. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to acknowledge your leadership over the past
two years as Chairman of this Board. And thank you for navigating us through some interesting times.
And I just wanted to express my appreciation for your strong leadership and remarkable grace that you've
exhibited throughout this process. So that's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for those kind words. Thank you. Boy, it was a blast. It's done
just like that.
Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. And this first, it relates to all the comments, because you have done an
extraordinary job in extraordinary times. But this also relates to Director Williams' question and Director
Tisdale's expertise, now that he is Chair of the Board's Committee at APTA. And it seems to me that
Director Williams raised a really valid point about our policy going forward, and Director Tisdale can guide
us on issues like this, that every one of us will have. And it was-- I brought up at the Board meeting that a
retreat to resolve just such internal issues would really be advisable as soon as we can schedule one.
So thank you, both Director Tisdale and Williams, for bringing up something related.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I changed my mind.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. I don't see anyone else In the queue. Ladies and gentlemen, we
are adjourned, unless there's anybody who wants to stay on.
TROY L. WHITMORE: [INAUDIBLE]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. 7:31 PM. Have a good evening, everybody.
DOUG TISDALE: So long.
BOB BROOM: Good night, all.

