1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, February 2, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:19 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:15 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

6:18 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:18 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

6:16 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:18 PM
6:15 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:16 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:19 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:18 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:17 PM

6:18 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:17 PM
6:15 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent. Director Anderson participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, John
Gonzales, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Shantel Lewis, Marla
Lien, Rik Lor, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Roger Sherman, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors change the name of the RTD FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee and revise the structure
accordingly.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 16, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, commented that he was
filling in for the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-Chairs
who were unable to make the meeting due to weather. He
explained that this recommendation was the result of
extensive conversation with the Board and CAC Members. He
said the goal of the recommendation was to broaden the role
of the CAC while maintaining the original intent. The CAC will
begin to focus on RTD’s Strategic Plan which will allow the
CAC to always be aligned with what the Board has identified
as RTD’s priorities. He stated that the membership and
selection process will remain the same. The CAC has held off
on filling its recent vacancies until this action was approved.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• North Metro O & M Update
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
said that while it might seem early to be discussing the operations and
maintenance of the North Metro Line since it will not be opening until 2018,
staff will be coming to the Board in March with a request for approval to
enter into an agreement with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) to maintain the
12 rail vehicles that have already been purchased for the North Metro Line.
He explained that staff wanted to hear the Board’s input and questions so
they could be sure to cover everything when they bring the request before
the Board.
Henry Stopplecamp shared that the operations and maintenance of the North
Metro Line had not yet been determined. At this time there are three
options staff is considering which are:
 RTD forms a commuter rail division under Rail Operations
 RTD issues a Request for Proposals for a third party to operate the
North Metro Line
 RTD Enters into a contract with Denver Transit Partners to operate
the North Metro Line in conjunction with operating the Eagle P3 lines
He reiterated that staff is still in the beginning phases of discussing the
North Metro Line operations and maintenance and will come back to the
Board to brief them once there are more definitive plans.
Henry Stopplecamp said he had Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager
of Rail Operations, and Greg Straight, Eagle P3 Engineering Project Manager,
with him to answer any questions.
Committee Chair Hoy summarized that RTD took advantage of purchasing
these 12 trains in conjunction with trains for Eagle P3 to get bargain pricing,
which means that while we got them at a bargain we now also have to do
something with them until they are needed.

Director Bagley said that his understanding was the same as that of
Committee Chair Hoy. He noted that these trains will not just be sitting on
siding track somewhere but will be incorporated into the Eagle P3 fleet until
they are needed.
Director Lasater pointed out that this is very similar to what was done with
the rail cars purchased for the Southeast Extension. These 12 vehicles will
be put in service even through the line they are for is not yet finished.
Director Lubow wondered if this took away from these vehicles useful life.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that any miles traveled by a vehicle will reduce its
useful life; however, he explained that we needed to run the trains to ensure
we discovered any issues before they were out of warranty. Additionally,
he noted that it is bad for a vehicle to sit for too long. He said that they
would be integrated into the fleet to keep the running and guarantee they
had the proper service intervals.
Director Folska asked staff to prepare a cost-benefit analysis of the three
options outlined for the North Metro operations and maintenance when it is
brought back to the Board.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley wished Director Anderson a happy belated birthday.
Director Sisk thanked Committee Chair Hoy and Committee Vice-Chair James for
cancelling the FasTracks Monitoring and Planning and Development Committee
Meetings in January. He thought it was a good sign of the Board working to
eliminate unnecessary meetings. He believes the Board will see somewhat of a
convergence between the FasTracks Monitoring and the Planning and Development
Committee Meetings as more FasTracks projects are completed.
Committee Chair Hoy thinks that convergence is really an appropriate term. He
stated that he and Director James will be very cognizant of only having meetings
that are necessary.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 08, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:34 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

