1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, February 2, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
D. Updates

• North Metro O & M Update
E. Other Matters
F. Next Meeting Date - March 08, 2016
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: January 28, 2016

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 28, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 16, 2016

Subject:

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors change the
name of the RTD FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee and
revise the structure accordingly.
BACKGROUND
On April 22, 2004, the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 5, Series of 2004, directing, in
part, staff to create a FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC). On Dec.13, 2005, the RTD Board
of Directors approved the structure of the CAC including its mission and function, the duties and roles of
its members, the selection process for members, and organizational and meeting procedures for the
committee. On Dec. 16, 2008, the RTD Board of Directors increased the number of members of the
CAC from eleven to seventeen.
Since its creation in 2005, the mission of the CAC has been to review the progress of the FasTracks
Program in relation to established schedules, budget allocations, DBE goals and quality management
guidelines; to provide region-oriented advice to the Board of Directors on issues related to the
implementation of the FasTracks program; to review and provide comment on the DRCOG SB208
Annual Report; and to promote public awareness and understanding of the voter-approved FasTracks
program and its implementation.
As the District completes more elements of the FasTracks Program, opens five new projects in 2016,
and works to integrate new rail service into existing operations, the issues that input from the CAC
would be relevant and meaningful to the District are increasingly agency-wide.
Therefore, based on the CAC’s individual meetings with board members conducted earlier this year,
input from staff and extensive discussion by the committee, the members of the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee recommend the Board revise the structure for the Citizens Advisory Committee as
follows:
Regional Transportation District
Citizens Advisory Committee
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) is made up of residents
and business persons from around the region. Members are appointed by RTD Board of Directors and
volunteer their time to advise the District on a range of issues that affect citizens and impact the region.
Committee Role
The role of the Citizens Advisory Committee shall be to:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1









Continue to monitor and provide input on the improvements for each corridor contained in the
FasTracks Plan.
Become familiar with the District’s Strategic Plan and long-term vision.
Provide region-oriented advice to the District regarding the implementation of the Strategic Plan,
its strategies and initiatives.
Represent the citizen perspective on behalf of a wide range of stakeholder interests and
community organizations.
Gather information from community members to share with the agency.
Share information with community members to promote public awareness of the agency’s
programs and projects.
Other tasks as assigned by the Board of Directors.

The Committee shall provide an update to the Board of Directors on its activities as requested by the
Board.
Membership
The CAC shall consist of seventeen (17) members. Appointment is for a three-year term, with an
opportunity for one reappointment thereafter.
To ensure the Committee includes a cross-section of the region's population, criteria used by the Board
for appointment may include, but not be limited to:







Demonstrated interest in transit or other public policy advocacy.
Membership in business, civic, and environmental organizations.
Member of senior, low-income, minority, and/or disabled populations.
Experience in working with local jurisdictions on regional issues.
Previous community service.
Professional expertise and qualifications.

RTD employees, their immediate family members, and elected officials are not eligible for membership.
Selection Process
Recruitment for committee members will be publicly advertised through the RTD website, social media,
local publications, and stakeholder e-mail distribution lists. A five-member nominating committee will
review the applications and forward recommended candidates to the Board of Directors for appointment.
The nominating committee will consist of the following positions:





RTD Board Chairman or his/her designee.
RTD FasTracks Monitoring Committee (or subsequent Committee of Record) Chair or his/her
designee.
RTD General Manager or his/her designee.
RTD Assistant General Manager for Planning or his/her designee.

The Local Government Relations Consultant will provide administrative support and serve as a nonvoting member of the nominating committee.
Meetings
The Committee shall meet monthly, or more frequently as needed, at a time and place set and publicized
at the beginning of each year. At least three (3) of the monthly meetings shall be “open forum style”
meetings held at a time and/or location to promote increased public awareness and participation.
The Committee will select two co-chairs, who will serve staggered two-year terms.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

All meetings shall be open to the public. Citizens are welcome to provide comment at such time as
designated by the agenda and upon recognition by a co-chair.
In general, meetings of the Committee will be conducted on an informal basis. The Committee shall use
a consensus process to formulate input and advice on matters being considered. When absolutely
needed, the rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern
the Committee.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors change the name of the RTD FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee to the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee and revise the structure
accordingly.
2. Do not adopt the Recommended Action and retain the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
as currently organized, solely focused on the FasTracks Program.
3. Do not adopt the Recommended Action and disband the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Prepared by:
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: January 26, 2016

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

January 26, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 2, 2016

Subject:

North Metro O & M Update

Information

Prepared by:
Ashland Vaughn, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

