2020-09-22 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: Whose number ends in 3-5?
JON MURRAY: That's Jon Murray.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi, Jon. You'd think I would memorize these. And then whose is 8-4 again?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, it is 1:01. And I'd like to call the GM Executive Search/GMOC
Committee meeting to order on Tuesday, September 22, 2020. For the record, we have Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, Director Mihalik, Director Lubow, Director Menten, Director Cook, Director
Tisdale, Director Walker, and Director Whitmore. We also have Paul Ballard, Gregg Moser,
John McKay, and Melanie Snyder. We are missing Directors Lewis and Director Buzek. I don't
know. And I believe Barbara McManus is not yet on the line. I think-- well, we may have a few
of those Directors already logged into the Executive Session.
I'd like to-- the process moving forward, we have scheduled this meeting today to hopefully go
over the contract as has been suggested to be modified by Debra and her attorney. And we
wanted to go over that with you today. And then if we're still not quite where we want to be, then
we will hold another meeting on Thursday. Is that correct? OK. And I noticed Barbara's not on
here, so she won't be able to clarify if I am incorrect about some of these processes.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JOHN MCKAY: This is John McKay. One other thing to note that we do have an action item
that we'll need to adopt, or the Committee will need to adopt on Thursday that was not included
in today's packet. But that's the approval of the resolution to approve Debra Johnson and to
accept the terms of her contract. And that will be forthcoming in the Wednesday packet for the
Thursday meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, good. And then this Committee will then recommend to the full Board
that an action be taken. And then those documents will go out in the Board packet on Thursday
evening after the Executive Committee meeting-- or no, the Executive Committee meeting,
excuse me, is on Friday. And then that will go out in the Board packet and we will hopefully take
action on the contract as a full Board on Tuesday, the 29th.
Director Cook, did you have your hand up?
SHELLEY COOK: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. I was thinking at the last meeting, we talked
about a presentation to the Executive Committee and that the entire Board could be invited to
that so as to have them able to engage on this sooner than the meeting at which we'll ultimately
take action. Is that still part of our plan?

PEGGY CATLIN: That would be part of the Thursday meeting, yes, that whoever wants to be
invited, from the full Board, just like all meetings of this committee, there could be additional
Board members at that time. Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. We had talked about it, or Barbara offered the idea of really
promoting that so that the Board as a whole could-- there is some benefit to having a sense of the
Board's questions or so forth ahead of time. And I know we're relying on our buddy system. But
sometimes when you hear what other people say, it sparks questions. And being able to engage
on some of that earlier than later seems like it might be a good thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. John, did you want to respond to that?
JOHN MCKAY: I did. Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JOHN MCKAY: OK. Yes, there is an invite that's going to be coming out tomorrow for the full
Board to be able to attend both the Thursday GM Executive Committee meeting, Executive
Search, didn't say that right, and then again on Friday for the Executive Committee, so that they
can engage both in the final discussions before the item is approved and then again in open
session on Friday for the Executive Committee before it's moved forward to the full Board for
the Board meeting on Tuesday.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And just for the record, I don't believe that I mentioned that Director
Guissinger was on the line. She joined. And then also, I am told that Barbara McManus has also
joined.
OK. Director Menten, you have your hand up.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So I got a question on the process. And since it was determined last
meeting that we would not be publishing the terms of this contract in our Thursday packet for
Tuesday's meeting, so we're going to be holding on that. And then we've got-- so we've got a
Thursday GMES meeting, which will partially be open and partially be closed door, and then we
have an Executive Committee meeting on Friday. But this GMES Committee is, unlike most of
our committees, it's a body of us, what, eight.
So what is the purpose of the Executive Committee? What is their task in this? Besides just
approving the agenda, which-DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --it would be tentative. But normally if the Executive Committee is
meeting, they just put in that spot. So I'm not sure why we really have any extensive meeting, I
guess, for Friday.

PEGGY CATLIN: I don't think it will be. It will be just a routine Executive Committee meeting,
at which time we will put this agenda item on Tuesday's agenda.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the Executive Committee really can't change our resolution language
from Thursday. Because the GMES is the, let's call it the authoritative body, I guess. I hate to use
that term. But would that be correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not sure I would use those words. But the Committee, per its charter,
refers a recommendation to the Board as a whole.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I thought I had picked up on something about discussion and
changes with the Executive Committee. And that is why I ask about that part of the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, that discussion will take place on Thursday in this committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other comments before I entertain a motion to move into
Executive Session?
OK. I'd like to call for a motion to move into Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)(l)
Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding recently selected
General Manager/Chief Executive Officer candidate Debra Johnson, 24-6-402 [AUDIO OUT].
JEFF WALKER: You're cutting out.
NATALIE MENTEN: There's a lot of background noise, by the way.
PEGGY CATLIN: --and instructing negotiators regarding new General Manager Chief
Executive Officer compensation and contract, and 24-6-402(4)(b) Colorado Revised Statute to
receive legal advice regarding the same. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
JEFF WALKER: Second, Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Directors Rivera-Malpiede and Director Walker. Is there any
objection?
OK. I would remind you that we do need to reconvene in this meeting after we exit the Executive
Session. So with that, I would encourage you to hang up on this call and dial into the Executive
Session. Thank you.

-- 1:56. We exited the Executive Session at 1:55 PM. On the call we have currently Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, Director Mihalik, Director Guissinger, Director Menten. Director Cook,
Director Lewis, Director Tisdale, Director Walker. And on the phone we have Director-- no, not
yet, we do not yet have Director Buzek. We have John McKay, Jon Murray. And Director
Menten is also on the phone. Did I miss anyone?
OK. I'd like to reconvene the General Manager Executive Search GMOC Committee meeting at
1:57 PM on Tuesday, September 22, 2020. So I would like, at this point-- oh, I did not identify
that we also have Paul Ballard, Gregg Moser, John McKay, Barbara McManus, and Melanie
Snyder on the line with us.
So at this point, I would like to turn it over to Barbara McManus to outline the next couple steps
that we have moving forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. Gregg will meet with Melanie, get the
updated contract out on HOGO. We'll send an email to all Directors letting them know when the
HOGO is available for their review. Gregg will socialize what happened in this meeting with
Debra. We will move forward in hopes that there are no substantive changes to the contract as it
stands. We'll prepare the packet tomorrow afternoon, within the 24hour mark for the Thursday
meeting. In that packet will be a draft of the resolution and the Board report, as well as the
contract. They'll go out as a confidential item.
We will meet on Thursday to move that item forward as an action item to go on the Executive
Committee meeting. We'll publish the Executive Committee meeting on Thursday, after the
GMS Committee results. All of the Board members will be invited to both the GMES meeting
tomorrow, as well as the Executive Committee on Friday.
Just a reminder, all Directors are always invited to those meetings, but we're putting a particular
emphasis on the invitation at this juncture in time. Once the Executive Committee approvals
move through, then we will finalize the contract with Debra Johnson and RTD in the Board
meeting on 5:30 on the 29th, next Tuesday.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Are there any comments from other Directors
with regard to process? I see Director Menten hand is raised.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Barbara, you did say at one point, GMES tomorrow, but that is
Thursday.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I meant after we publish the agenda tomorrow for Thursday, and
publishing the packet for Executive Committee Thursday for Friday. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that clarification.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sure. Yeah. And then so just for the record, that means that we have gone
back and forth with Miss Johnson. And Thursday, we're going to have another GMES meeting
and emphasize, highlight that those who, the few, the very few that weren't in today's meeting or-

- they've been in the other meetings-- but leading up to today, there's like three that did not
participate today. We're going to finalize this really as going back and forth with the terms start
on Thursday. Friday is really just the Executive Committee and a normal process, approving the
agenda.
And we would have time to publish the terms of this contract, as proposed, after our back and
forth, end of day Friday so that the public would have an idea of what the terms are in this
agreement. And we have declined, the majority of the committee has declined to do that. And I
really, I find that unfortunate that we are not going to, in like our normal contract process,
highlight the terms before we vote on it. I find that really sad that we're not doing that. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your comment. And I think you are correct that the majority of
this committee felt that until there's a formal action taken by the Board, that it is still under
negotiation.
So I wanted to personally thank all of you who have spent so many hours devoted to this effort.
And we were cautioned by the Board Office staff that this does take quite a bit of time and there
has to be a commitment to going through this process. And that certainly has been proven true.
But I just wanted to thank you all. Because you have taken a lot of time out of your normal days
to devote to this effort. And I just want to thank you all. And thanks to Gregg and the Board
Office staff, and Mr. Ballard and Melanie for all of your hard work on this too. I think we're
really close. Today's meeting was just very productive. Thank you.
So I'd like to entertain a motion to adjourn this meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, did you want to say something?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. You know, I think I would be remiss if I didn't say on behalf
of the Board, thank you, First Chair Catlin and Treasurer Guissinger for the immense amount of
work you've put into this process, and Mr. Moser and Melanie. Really, this process has gone so
well and has been so inclusive of the entire Board. And just great, great work. So thank you.
Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. We both appreciate that [AUDIO OUT],
and the rest of the group.
So I'd like to entertain a motion to adjourn.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved, Buzek.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Was that Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Moved and seconded. Is there any objection? For the record, at 2:04, this
committee is adjourned. Thank you all. We'll be chatting again in 3 and 1/2 hours. Bye.

