1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
December 12, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee Members Present: Chair Anderson, 1st vice-chair Bagley, 2nd vice-chair
Hoy, and Secretary Daly

II.

Board Members Absent:

Treasurer Walker

Others Present:

General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson reviewed the December Board agenda. She reminded herself to make sure
to ask if there are any questions on the unanimous agenda items so they can be pulled
before voting.
Chair Anderson asked for a motion to move the December Board agenda forward.
Motion:

1st Vice-Chair Bagley made the motion to move the
December Board meeting agenda forward for December 17,
2013.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley shared that at the CAC dinner on December
11, he sat with new CAC appointees, Stovall and Wilson. He
is pleased to see the diversity on the committee. Chair
Anderson shared she was pleased as well and felt it helped

other Board members to be more comfortable with the
representation.
Director Hoy asked for clarification on if the Use Tax
Compliance Group is a collection agency. General Manager
Washington responded no.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with all committee members in favor.
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A. Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to market and to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to dispose of real property owned by
RTD in the vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora Highline
Subdivision, Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants associated with the
West Corridor Rail Line at 1395 South Zuni, and vacant land at 104th and Riverdale,
Thornton, Colorado to at least 90% of the current fair market value as determined by
appraisal.
B. Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail Line
currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation
document. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on station
naming. It is also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility
located at the station area also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
C. Station Names for Eagle P3 Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For comparison,
the current station names in use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)

60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport
Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
D. FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members to the
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
for three-year terms.
E. Resolution No. _, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates of
Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Reimbursement
Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds from a tax-exempt
obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to reimburse itself for certain
capital expenditures made in connection with the North Metro rail line project.
F. Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Sixth-Year Amendment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to
Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic
Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment
is for the sixth year, which is the final option year of the contract. The scope and fee
are renegotiated annually. The sixth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,400,000
for a total contract value to date of $12,022,000.
G. Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract
11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to
allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is

administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded
by various Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects
under contract.
H. Increase the General Manager’s Signature Authority for the Rio Court Maintenanceof-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment signature authority
for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project be increased
from $500,000 to $700,000.
I.

DRCOG Vanpool Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for
calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $700,000.00.
J. North Front Range Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and continued expansion of the NFR
VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for
calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $450,000.00.
K. City of Boulder Hop Cost Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and
is for an amount not to exceed $1,484,378.00.

L. 5311 Cost Share Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section
5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson
County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2014 and for amounts not to exceed
$343,680.00 for Boulder County, $338,250.00 for Adams County and $104,804.00
for Jefferson County.



Recommended Actions
M. Approval of Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to approve a two year contract with an
additional one year option with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales and use tax
compliance review services. The contract will be paid on a labor hour basis with an
annual not-to-exceed amount of $607,500.
N. Approval of the Purchase of Four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) Cars for the Eagle
Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase of
four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the Eagle Project through the Denver
Transit Partners (DTP), for an amount not to exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the Eagle Project budget to fund the purchase of the
additional four EMU cars.
O. Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the
City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for an amount not
to exceed $282,000.00.



Recommended Action
P. Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 General Manager Performance Evaluation

III.

Other Matters
Director Bagley indicated that even though the Board Effectiveness Workshop was
cancelled, he feels it is important that we tighten up our processes with some absolute
procedures, etc., on how frequently people can move or speak, etc. We need more
uniformity across our committees and Board meetings.
Director Bagley stated that he wants to see all of the Travel tics that were prepared in
2013. Each of the Board members receives $6000 per year for travel and he thinks the
travel tics should be a mandatory requirement for travel on the use of taxpayer’s funds.
Chair Anderson agreed on the importance of the travel tics and noted we have this as part
of our recommended request. However, in a previous conversation with legal counsel, it
was discussed not desirable to have one Board member try to control another. We will
ask legal counsel to bring us a legal opinion on the matter.
Director Daly inquired if any other agencies such as the CML require travel tics. Chair
Anderson responded that in her experience with CML and the City of Arvada, she did not
provide travel tics. Arvada did not have a designated budget and she always provided a
verbal report.
Director Hoy commented about the action item for the disposition of surplus land. He
stated that staff is moving in the right direction. It is good that we are using partners and
starting to market our property. He applauds staff for this effort.
Director Bagley added that our revised disposition strategy takes into account the types of
properties and how to best market. The white paper helped to define the issue.
Paula Perdue asked the Executive Committee to please help get the word out to the
committee chairs that their term is technically not over until a new Chair of the Board is
elected and appointments are made. That normally flows through one cycle in January.
General Manager Washington shared that he had met this morning with 3 stakeholders
selected to represent the US 36 group over the selection of BRT buses. It was initially
staff’s recommendation to exercise the over the road MCI vehicles. Staff has a concern
about having to go through the bus procurement for a RFP which is generally higher cost
and could attract small startup companies who want to be in the business. Staff has
already experienced this with a couple of small companies and knows some of the risks
involved. What they agreed upon was to go with the MCI over the road buses for opening
day. They will issue an RFI identifying the desired characteristics with national and

international companies to see who may be in the market for the replacement cycle later.
General Manager Washington also noted that he had conveyed his concern about if the
solicitation is not good for the District, RTD will state so. He is concerned about possible
pushback from the stakeholders. He made this issue clear to the stakeholders.
The committee indicated their general support of this position, noting that the type of bus
is an RTD decision and the Board will weigh in on any recommendation. Director Daly
noted that General Manager Washington had made a good point about why the low floor
vehicles do not work well along the US 36 corridor terrain due to weather, climbing hills
and other factors.
General Manager Washington shared that in early January, they will talk to the Board
about the process of MPACT 64. They will need to educate the Board about the process
and how the list of projects will work.
Director Daly inquired about what percent RTD will get of MPACT 64. General Manager
Washington responded that right now the agency including CDOT is working on an “AList” which 85% of the projects will probably get funded. The initial thought is transit will
get 1/3 of the funds on a statewide basis. Of this 1/3, RTD will get 60%. However, he
was quick to add that these numbers are being discussed and re-evaluated and could
change.
Director Hoy commented that it is important the Board members understand there are
multiple options for cuts and changes to this list. Staff will provide their recommendations
to the Board which could be changed. It could also be changed when it goes to the
MPACT committee.
Director Bagley inquired if it makes sense to wait until after the results of the NAMS study
to provide this list. General Manager Washington commented this is a timing issue.
Chair Anderson made these comments:
 She attended the APTA Board meeting via web. This is very exciting to see their
program for next year. There are recommendations from APTA that is important to
how we function. We hope to coordinate our issues with APTA for the conference
in March.
 One of things she noted from the APTA BOD meeting is they had assigned an adhoc committee to review all of their policies. She thinks this is a good idea and is
looking at a possible ad hoc committee to review our policies on record. This
committee would recommend change, deletion or modification to the existing
policies. She will ponder on how to do this so it is not a major drain on staff.





She spoke to the graduating class of Leadership Academy today. This is a
wonderful program and the participants are jazzed. The participants are doing their
regular job and working on projects in the Leadership program at the same time.
She had the opportunity to talk with the employees at Matt’s fundraiser yesterday
as well as some of the participants in Leadership Academy. Although the Board
got off on a rocky start this year, she was happy to hear that they believe the
Board is doing a good job. We have had many difficult issues to address. As she
looks at the issues ahead in 2014, she believes it is important that we have
consistent leadership and someone who is neutral about the upcoming issues. She
has consulted with her husband and for these reasons, she has decided to run for
Chair of the Board for 2014. She is jazzed to be a part of this agency and she is
proud of what we have accomplished.

Director Bagley commented how important the investment in human capital is and asked
General Manager Washington to comment on that next week.
Director Daly thanked Chair Anderson for stepping up to run for Board chair. He thinks it
is important to the Board’s image not to change Chairs every year. This is his last year on
the Board and he will not be running for Secretary.
IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:02 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

