Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
December 12, 2013 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - December 17, 2013
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Michael Flanagan – Telephone Information Specialist – 25 years
John Hatton – Light Rail Electro-Mechanic – 37 years
Lloyd Joe – Certified Mechanic – 36 years
Bobbie L. McGinnis – Controller Supervisor – 20 years
David Newcomb – Bus Operator – 18 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 26, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to market and to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to dispose of real property owned
by RTD in the vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora
Highline Subdivision, Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants
associated with the West Corridor Rail Line at 1395 South Zuni, and vacant land at
104th and Riverdale, Thornton, Colorado to at least 90% of the current fair market
value as determined by appraisal.
B.

Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225
Rail Line currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the
Environmental Evaluation document. This recommendation is consistent with the
current Board policy on station naming. It is also recommended that the existing
Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility located at the station area also be renamed
to be consistent with the light rail station.
C.

Station Names for Eagle P3 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For
comparison, the current station names in use are shown in parentheses.

Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. &
Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
D.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members to the
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) for three-year terms.
E.
Resolution No. _, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates
of Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds
from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the North
Metro rail line project.
F.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Sixth-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s
Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided
Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract
18DH016). This contract amendment is for the sixth year, which is the final option
year of the contract. The scope and fee are renegotiated annually. The sixth-year
fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,400,000 for a total contract value to date of
$12,022,000.
G.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025
with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the
amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000.
Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to
be funded by various Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and
existing projects under contract.
H.
Increase the General Manager’s Signature Authority for the Rio Court
Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment signature
authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project
be increased from $500,000 to $700,000.
I.

DRCOG Vanpool Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council
of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is
for calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $700,000.00.
J.

North Front Range Vanpool Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range
Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and continued
expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed
$450,000.00.
K.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus
service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar
year 2014 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,484,378.00.

L.

5311 Cost Share Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services
and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision
of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County
and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2014 and for
amounts not to exceed $343,680.00 for Boulder County, $338,250.00 for Adams
County and $104,804.00 for Jefferson County.
XII.

Recommended Actions
M.

Approval of Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Contractor

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to approve a two year contract
with an additional one year option with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales
and use tax compliance review services. The contract will be paid on a labor hour
basis with an annual not-to-exceed amount of $607,500.
N.
Approval of the Purchase of Four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) Cars for the
Eagle Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase
of four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the Eagle Project through the
Denver Transit Partners (DTP), for an amount not to exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the Eagle Project budget to fund the purchase
of the additional four EMU cars.
O.

Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator
bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and
is for an amount not to exceed $282,000.00.
XIII.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XIV.

Executive Session

XV.

Resume from Executive Session to Board Meeting

XVI.

Recommended Action
P.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVII. Old Business
XVIII. New Business
XIX.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager and/or his designee to market and to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to dispose of real property owned by RTD in the vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot
1, Block 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision, Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants associated
with the West Corridor Rail Line at 1395 South Zuni, and vacant land at 104 th and Riverdale, Thornton,
Colorado to at least 90% of the current fair market value as determined by appraisal.
BACKGROUND
In April, 2013, staff presented to the Board an Overview of Real Property and Transit Oriented
Development, including a discussion of regulations governing real property owned by the District and
other policy and operation considerations, including Federal State and RTD regulations, financial, current
and future operational needs, and transit-oriented development opportunities and goals to consider in the
management and disposition of RTD property.
A subsequent presentation to the Board in August, 2013 proposed a Pilot Program involving the four
properties that are subject of the recommended action of this Board Report. The Pilot Program allowed
for a diverse set of disposal considerations providing an opportunity to evaluate and review the process,
review lessons learned and propose any policy changes.
An Interdisciplinary Task Force was convened including representatives from Planning, Bus Operations,
Rail Operations, Capital Programs, Finance, Facilities, Transit Oriented Development and Real Property.
The four properties included in the Pilot Program were reviewed, discussed and studied by the Task
Force for a recommendation to dispose of the property and a plan for marketing the property.
DISCUSSION
1. Property located in the vicinity of WCR27 and WCR #6 and #8, Weld County, Colorado containing
approximately 243 acres was determined to be surplus by the Task Force with no foreseeable future
need by the District. The recommended marketing plan for this property is to post with FOR SALE
signs, develop a marketing brochure for mail and on-line marketing. On-line marketing will include
the use of on-line brokerage sites such as LoopNet.com. The property will be sold with water rights.
It is recommended that the property be sold for at least 90% of fair market value as determined by
appraisal.
2. Vacant land adjacent to the Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride also known as Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora
Highline Subdivision, Filing No. 4 consisting of approximately 2.3 acres was also determined to be
surplus. The recommended marketing plans for this property is to market to adjacent property owner
including a car dealership at this location. The City of Aurora is supportive of this approach by RTD
and has suggested that the expansion of car dealership use at that site is appropriate. It is

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.A

recommended that the property be sold for at least 90% of fair market value as determined by
appraisal.
3. Remnants of vacant land acquired as a result of West Corridor Light Rail acquisition program in the
vicinity of 14th and Zuni containing approximately 1.6 acres have also been determined to be surplus.
RTD will be required to seek Federal Transit Administration concurrence in the disposition of this
property. It is recommended based on multiple inquiries related to this property, that a request for
proposal (RFP) for the sale of this property be issued with a minimum bid based on the fair market
value of the property as determined by appraisal. The RFP for this property will include incentives to
support transit-oriented, mixed-use development at this site as identified in the recently adopted
Federal Decatur Station Area Plan by the City and County of Denver.
4. The North Metro Rail project and station at 104th and Colorado will eliminate any need for a park-nRide at 104th and Riverdale as originally envisioned when this property was acquired. The plan for
marketing the approximately 8.74 RTD owned acres at this location is to pursue joint marketing
opportunities with the adjacent property owner. It is recommended that the property be sold for at
least 90% of fair market value as determined by appraisal. Any joint marketing effort agreements
will be reviewed by legal to ensure RTD is able to participate fully in all joint efforts.
Staff will evaluate each process, review and recommend changes to process and or policies based on
results of the four anticipated sales. Staff will review any recommended changes to the process and or
policies with the Board and will seek Board approval on changes to existing Board approved policies and
procedures.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
It is anticipated that the disposition of all four properties subject to this report could total $5-10 million.
Proceeds will be added to the appropriate account – either the base general fund or the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA).
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to market and to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to dispose of real property owned by RTD in the
vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision, Filing No. 4
(Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants associated with the West Corridor Rail Line at 1395 South
Zuni, and vacant land at 104th and Riverdale, Thornton, Colorado to at least 90% of the current fair
market value as determined by appraisal.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee
to market and to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to dispose of real property owned
by RTD in the vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8, Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision,
Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana park-n-Ride), remnants associated with the West Corridor Rail Line at
1395 South Zuni, and vacant land at 104th and Riverdale, Thornton, Colorado to at least 90% of the
current fair market value as determined by appraisal.
ATTACHMENTS:


Real Property White Paper April 3 2013



Surplus Property attachment



03.27.1984 Resolution No 10 Real Property Joint Development and Disposition of Property (PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.A

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.A.a

RTD Real Property White Paper

Introduction
The intent of this white paper is to describe the real property management and disposition process at
RTD including how real property management interfaces with the TOD function at RTD. This white
paper outlines all existing RTD, state and federal regulations that govern RTD’s acquisition and
disposition of real property and identifies other policy (including TOD) and operational considerations
that need to be taken into account in this process. Also, this paper summarizes how other similar public
agencies approach real property management. Finally, this paper identifies some steps RTD may
consider to more proactively manage its real property assets.

Regulations Governing RTD Real Property
There are several state, federal and RTD laws, regulations and policies which govern the acquisitions and
disposition of properties. RTD must maintain compliance with these requirements.
RTD’s legal authority to acquire property is established in Colorado Revised Statutes C.R.S. 32-9-101 et
seq. “Regional Transportation Act” as amended. This legislation empowers the Board to acquire,
manage, and dispose of property in furtherance of the authorization of planning, building, operating and
maintaining a mass transportation system. This authority includes the power to condemn property for
public use. It is important to note that the authority granted to RTD by the state specifically defines
that RTD can only acquire property for the purposes of mass transit. Different regulations apply to the
disposition of property acquired by RTD depending on the funding source. The disposition of properties
acquired with local funding only are subject to the legal authority above and the Regional
Transportation District Resolution No. 10 Series of 1984 (Resolution Regarding Joint Development and
Disposition of Property Rights) attached as Exhibit A. Disposition of property requires RTD Board
approval.
The acquisition and disposition of property acquired by RTD for federally assisted programs and projects
are subject to acquisition and relocation policies and provisions contained in the government-wide rule
published in the Federal Register on January 4, 2005. The rules are reprinted each year in the Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Title 49, Part 24. All Federal, State, local government agencies, and others
receiving Federal financial assistance for public programs and projects that require the acquisition of
real property must comply with the policies and provisions set forth in the Uniform Act and the
regulation. The acquisition itself does not need to be federally funded for the rules to apply. If Federal
funds are used in any phase of the program or project, the rules of the Uniform Act apply.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Real Property White Paper April 3 2013 (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

April 3, 2013

In addition to the Uniform Act, the Federal Transit Administration requires Grantees to be familiar with
other regulations that specifically address the disposition of property, especially U.S. Department of
Transportation, Federal Transit Administration Circular FTA C 5010.1D Grant Management Requirements
dated November 1, 2008, Rev 1, August 27, 2012. The Circular establishes procedures to be followed by
grantees for the disposition of properties, including (1.) selling property (competitively to the extent
practicable) and reimbursing FTA its share of the fair market value, and (2) selling real property and
using the proceeds to reduce the cost of the grant if it is still open or of other FTA funded capital
projects.
A list of properties, vacant and/or underutilized originally acquired without federal funding assistance is
attached as Exhibit B and a list of properties, vacant and/or underutilized originally acquired as part of a
federally funded project is attached as Exhibit C.
As a general rule, property acquired for a construction project is not considered for disposition until
after the construction contract is complete. RTD construction contracts generally make property
acquired for the project available to the construction contractor for construction installation, access to
the site or storage.

Other Policy and Operational Considerations for RTD Real Property Management
There are multiple additional policy and operational considerations that need to be evaluated in the
context of the management, acquisition and disposition of RTD real property. These considerations
should be evaluated in the context of overriding rules and regulations on real property discussed in the
previous section.
Key considerations beyond the existing regulations that govern real property management include:


Financial – management decisions including the acquisition, disposition or transfer of some
other form of property rights are influenced by the general financial conditions of the district
and the financial status of individual capital improvement projects. Examples of this kind of
influence include:
o RTD’s Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) – the RTD Board approved the potential to sell
selected excess properties for the purpose of adding revenues to the FasTracks Internal
Savings Account (FISA). This consideration requires RTD staff to look proactively at
selling selected parcels no longer needed for transit purposes to raise revenues to pay
for FasTracks related improvements.
o Engineering decisions on capital improvement projects – financial considerations are
taken into account in acquisition of property for RTD facilities. Budget limitations on
projects often require creative thinking and design to minimize or avoid acquiring
property for RTD rail and bus facilities. RTD staff work very hard to take only property
that is absolutely required for construction and operation of RTD facilities.

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Real Property White Paper April 3 2013 (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.a

o

o

Fair Market Value – RTD establishes the value of a property for disposal through a fair
market appraisal. An offer significantly below the appraised fair market value would not
be approved.
Certificates of Participation (COPs) – COPs are used frequently by RTD to leverage
existing RTD assets, including property, for the purposes of financing other RTD
obligations such as capital improvements. The utilization of COPs on RTD real property
must be considered since the disposition of property which is encumbered by a COP will
require that the COP obligation be paid off or transferred to another RTD asset.



Current and Future Operational Needs – RTD’s current and future operational needs are always
evaluated in RTD’s property management process. There are some parcels in RTD’s property
inventory that are underutilized and/or are no longer required for its original intended purpose.
In these situations, it is incumbent on RTD staff to evaluate not only the current utilization of the
property, but the potential for future RTD use. This is extremely important because disposing of
property should only be done in cases where there is no foreseeable transit need for the
property. RTD does not want to be in the situation where it sells an underutilized property and
then determines two or three years later that it did need the property after all.



Transit Oriented Development Opportunities – the opportunity for TOD is an additional
consideration in the acquisition and disposition of property. First and foremost, RTD can only
purchase property for mass transit and cannot purchase property for development. That being
said, RTD does want to encourage the development of transit oriented communities around its
stations and does proactively look for partnership opportunities with local jurisdictions and
private developers to implement TOD at stations. Forming partnerships with others may allow
RTD to avoid acquiring property for RTD’s exclusive use. Examples of this type of partnership
include the Olde Town Arvada station and the Westminster station where the local jurisdictions
acquired property to promote the integration of RTD bus and parking facilities into a larger plan
for transit oriented development.
Additional consideration may be given to TOD in the land disposition process. When certain
conditions are present including local jurisdiction support and commitment for TOD
implementation (the presence of an adopted station area plan, TOD supportive zoning and
commitment of funding for public infrastructure) and private developer commitment and
resources (ownership of land and expenditure of resources on design and entitlements) RTD
may consider reinvesting land proceeds for the purposes of enhancing the station environment
through the implementation of TOD. Examples of this include the Boulder Junction bus transfer
facility and the Alameda TOD Pilot Project where the RTD Board chose to reinvest land sale
proceeds back into the transit facilities that are being built or being reconfigured associated
with the implementation of TOD.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Real Property White Paper April 3 2013 (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.a

2.11.A.a

A review of procedures of other public agencies, including General Services Administration (GSA),
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA),
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) and
various municipalities within the RTD district was done. All emphasize obtaining the fair market value,
as determined by appraisal of the property to be disposed of and most dispose of surplus property via a
competitive sale to the public generally through a sealed bid or auction. No marketing efforts are a part
of the disposition procedures.

Potential Modifications to RTD’s Real Property Management Approach
As RTD moves forward with the build out of FasTracks and the ongoing operation of its existing bus and
light rail system, modifications to RTD’s Real Property management could be considered. The
modifications would focus on being proactive where appropriate, but understanding that RTD is only in
the business of buying and selling real estate for constructing and operating a mass transit system.
RTD staff proposes the following steps in an effort to more proactively management its real property
assets:
1. Review and Refine Inventory of Surplus and Underutilized Property. Inventories of surplus and
underutilized real properties are attached. RTD staff will evaluate all properties contained in
either inventory, federally funded and/or locally funded and will focus on larger, possibly more
marketable parcels. Small/sliver parcels and other nonmarketable parcels will not be included
in the revised inventory.
2. Conduct an Assessment of Excess and Underutilized Real Property. RTD staff will form a
multidisciplinary committee to assess the potential disposition of parcels within the inventory of
surplus and underutilized parcels. In evaluating the inventory of parcels, RTD will consider all
the factors discussed in this white paper including regulations governing RTD property
disposition and other policy and operational considerations. Following the completion of this
evaluation, RTD staff will consult with select local subject matter experts to get their
perspectives on RTD’s real property inventory in the context of the factors governing RTD’s real
property disposition. RTD staff will then inform the Board of its assessment of the inventory of
parcels. If staff were to move forward with any property disposition, the RTD Board would have
to approve the final negotiated business terms unless the Board had previously delegated that
authority to the General Manager.
3. Develop a Marketing Plan for Select Surplus and Underutilized Property. RTD staff will also
determine if there is a need to market the surplus or underutilized property. Marketing efforts
could include the development of a Request for Proposals (RFP), the installation of for sale signs
on the property to be disposed of, communication with local commercial, industrial and/or
residential property brokers who sell property in the vicinity, or other efforts to be determined.
RTD staff does not feel it would be advantageous to hire a real estate broker to market

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Real Property White Paper April 3 2013 (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

Peer Agency Approaches to Real Property Management

individual properties. Hiring a broker would reduce the amount of funds that RTD could receive
on the property because of the need to pay a commission to the broker. It would also require a
competitive solicitation each time a need for representation was identified, adding additional
time and cost to any disposition. In addition, none of the peer public agencies we surveyed
utilized a separate, private real estate broker in the disposition of real property.
4. Ongoing Process to Evaluate TOD Opportunities – RTD TOD staff will continue to proactively
pursue TOD opportunities where appropriate. As identified earlier, RTD will seek out
opportunities for partnerships with local jurisdictions and/or private developers where RTD can
leverage other resources to enhance our bus and rail stations and integrate transit more
seamlessly with development.
Other factors including market viability for TOD and
opportunities to encourage affordable housing as identified by RTD Board policy will also be
considered in the pursuit of TOD. When necessary, RTD staff will engage outside real estate
experts, on-call consultants and others to help evaluate TOD opportunities and negotiate with
private developers (RTD staff has utilized this approach for multiple projects including the DUS
Historic Building, the Alameda TOD Pilot and the Arvada TOD Pilot). RTD staff may engage
additional, outside experts on TOD under the following conditions:





The outside party has agreed to not compete or bid for the TOD opportunity for which
they are being consulted
Each individual TOD opportunity should be evaluated independently on a case by case
basis to determine the type of outside expertise needed since every project has unique
characteristics
Outside experts advising RTD should have a local understanding of the Denver real
estate market

Summary
In conclusion, the sale of surplus property can provide needed revenue to RTD and relieve the District of
the cost to maintain these properties. RTD will take additional steps to inventory, access and market
surplus properties. However, as described in this paper, the disposition of property is a complex
endeavor that must take into account legal, financial, contractual, and future operational requirements
while also considering transit oriented development opportunities where applicable. As we continue to
improve our processes in this area, we will schedule a study session to gather input from the RTD Board
on this very important item.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Real Property White Paper April 3 2013 (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.a

Attachment: Surplus Property attachment (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Surplus Property attachment (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Surplus Property attachment (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Surplus Property attachment (1785 : Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program)

2.11.A.b

Packet Pg. 18

EXHIBIT A
—1-•
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO.

10

SERIES OF 1984

(Resolution Regarding Joint Development and
Disposition of Property Rights)

WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District
matter of standard procedure,
property

for

the

if

construction,

(“RTD”),

as a

it determines to purchase real
operation,

and

maintenance

of

RTD’s mass transportation system, acquires full fee simple title
to such real property, including subsurface rights, surface
rights, and air rights; and
WHEREAS, at any time after RTD has acquired full fee simple
title to or. a long term leasehold interest in any real property,
RTD may determine that certain interests in said real property,
consisting of the subsurface rights, the surface rights, the air
•

rights, the leasehold rights, or any combination thereof (said
interest in real property being hereinafter referred to as
“Property

Rights”),

are

no

longer,

exclusively required by RTD for
and
WHEREAS,

RTD’s

best

not

immediately

or

not

its mass transportation system;

interests

may

be

served

by the

sale,

lease, or other disposition of Property Rights owned by RTD when
such Property Rights are no longer, not immediately or not
exclusively needed for its mass transportation system or when the
use of such Property Rights by another will not interfere with
RTD’s present or planned use; and
be adopted to govern the
Property Rights owned by

Attachment: 03.27.1984 Resolution No 10 Real Property Joint Development and Disposition of Property

2.11.A.c

Packet Pg. 19

WHEREAS, clear guidelines should
sale, lease, or other disposition of
RTD.

—2—
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Directors of
the Regional Transportation District that the following Property
Disposition and Joint Development Policy is adopted.
I.

It. is the intention of this Property Disposition and Joint
Development Policy to set forth policies, procedures:, and
guidelines which will enable the Regional Transportation
District (“RTD”) to obtain the maximum aesthetic, social and
economic

benefit

from

its

ownership of

property

and which

will enable RTD to do soin a manner that is consistent with
its obligation to operate a safe and efficient mass trans
portation system.
II.

RTD shall not dispose of any interest in any real property,
including subsurface rights, surface rights, air rights,
leasehold rights, or any combination thereof (said interests
in real property being hereinafter referred to as “Property
Rights”), until RTD has determined that disposition of such
Property Rights will not endanger or interfere with the safe
and

efficient

functioning

of

the

RTD

mass

transportation

III. RTD will dispose of Property Rights only (a)

by those means

system.

authorized by Regional Transportation District Act (Colorado
Revised Statutes 32—9—101 et. ~ or (b) by any other law
ful means.
IV.

If

RTD Property Rights

are

available

for

disposition,

the

General Manager or his designee shall present a Disposition
or
Joint
Development
Plan to the
Board of Directors
(“Board”) for approvaL
A Disposition or Joint Development
Plan (“Plan”) shall include the following information;
A description of the Property Rights~

(ii)

The proposed method of disposition or development;

Attachment: 03.27.1984 Resolution No 10 Real Property Joint Development and Disposition of Property

2.11.A.c

Packet Pg. 20

(i)

—3—
(iii)

A finding, with supporting facts, that (a) the Property
Rights

are no longer

required for mass

transportation

system construction, operation, or maintenance or (b)
use of the Property Rights by another party will not
interfere with RTD’s present or planned concurrent use;
(iv)

A

properly

documented

professional

analysis

of

the

highest and best use of the Property Rights;
(v)

The appraised f air market value of the Property Rights
and,

-

where

a

appraised fair
the lease;

lease

disposition

rental .value

and

the

is

proposed,

proposed

the

term of

(vi)

A description of applicable zoning regulations; and

(vii)

A description of local government land use and develop
ment plans affecting future use of the Property Rights.

V.

If the Board approves a Plan, the Board shall authorize the
General Manager

or

his

designee

to

request,

receive,

and

evaluate proposals for the sale, lease, or other disposition
or joint development of the Property Rights.
VI.

The General Manager shall submit to the Board his recontmen—
dations on the bids or proposals received for the Property
Rights.
(i)

The Board may:

Accept

a

proposal

for

the sale,

lease,

or other

dis

position of RTD Property Rights; or
•

(ii)

Attachment: 03.27.1984 Resolution No 10 Real Property Joint Development and Disposition of Property

2.11.A.c

Packet Pg. 21

Reject any or all bids or proposals as necessary for
the protection of the interests of RTD and thereafter
direct the General Manager to take such actions as are
deemed appropriate by the Board.

—4—
VII.

Any lease of Property Rights of a duration of a year or less
must conform to the policies enunciated in paragraphs I., II,
XII, VIII,
for

and IX but need not be the subject of a request

proposal

and

need

not

be

submitted

to

Board

the

for

approval.

Any grant of easement rights must also conform to

paragraphs

I,

II,

III,

VIII,

and

IX

but

need

not.~be

the

subject of a request for proposals.
VIII.

In any disposition of Property Rights, other than outright
sale, RTD shall retain sufficient control over the develop
ment of the Property Rights to
negative impact will result to
system and to reasonably ensure

reasonably ensure that no
RTD’s mass transportation
that the development does

not detract from the aesthetic,

social,

and economic well

being of the community.
IX.

In the

event that a proposed disposition involves Property

Rights that may be needed in the future for mass transporta
tion system purposes (including, without limitation, expansion of the system), RTD shall retain such interest in and
control over such Property Rights as are necessary to ensure
that such Property Rights shall be available for RTD’s use
when
and
as
necessary for mass
transportation system
purposes.
X.

The General Manager shall formulate appropriate administra
tive procedures to be followed
by the RTD
staff
in
connection with the disposition or development of Property
Rights by sale, lease, or other methods.

Passed and adopted by the ‘Board of Directors of the
Transportation District on the 27th day of March, 1984.

ary R. Du~y
Byror( L. Johnspn
Secretary
Chairman
Attachment: 03.27.1984 Resolution No 10 Real Property Joint Development and Disposition of Property

2.11.A.c

Packet Pg. 22

~ A A~4

Regional

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Renaming of I-225 Rail Line City Center Station

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the Aurora
Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail Line currently referred to as the Aurora City
Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation document. This recommendation is consistent with the
current Board policy on station naming. It is also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus
transfer facility located at the station area also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
BACKGROUND
During the Environmental Evaluation process it was determined that a light rail Park-n-Ride station at
Sable Boulevard and Centerpoint Drive would be an appropriate location because of the existing bus
transfer facility. Proximity to the facility would provide efficient connections between multiple bus routes
and the future light rail route. The City of Aurora has expressed an interest in renaming the station the
Aurora Metro Center Station and on September 9, 2013, Aurora City Council passed a resolution
supporting the change of the name.
DISCUSSION
The City of Aurora Council supports this change because they believe it better reflects the station that
will serve Aurora citizens and visitors. The City envisions the station to be a vital element of the future
main street area of Aurora. The City also believes the name change will fit better with the future
development plans for the area around the station.
There currently is a bus transfer station adjacent to the future light rail station and since it is integral to
connectivity to RTD services including light rail and bus, it is important the name represent both the rail
and bus components.
The May 2011 Board Station Naming Policy revision grants the Board flexibility in allowing station
naming and the proposed station name fits the general criteria established by the Board as follows:
a. The proposed name is recognizable as a general geographic area to the public;
b. The name does not incorporate any trademark name;
c. The station is not set to open until 2016 (which is more than two years away); and
d. The name does not violate any existing naming agreement.
Consequently, the proposed station name is consistent with the Board station naming policy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This recommendation would have no immediate financial impact on RTD.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the Aurora Metro Center Station name for the station on the I-225 Rail
Line currently referred to as the Aurora City Center Station in the Environmental Evaluation

Packet Pg. 23

2.11.B

document. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on station naming. It is
also recommended that the existing Centrepoint/Sable bus transfer facility located at the station area
also be renamed to be consistent with the light rail station.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action and request the City of Aurora to consider further
alternatives. This action is not recommended since this name no longer reflects the plans of the City
or adjacent property holder.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action and keep the station name as identified in the I-225
Environmental Evaluation. This action is not recommended since this name no longer reflects the
plans of the City of Aurora or adjacent property owner.

Prepared by:
Chuck Culig, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 26, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 26, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Station Names for Eagle P3 Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors approve the
following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For comparison, the current station names in
use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
BACKGROUND:
Station names were originally assigned during the Gold Line Corridor and East Corridor Environmental
Impact Statements, both completed in 2009, and the Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation
completed in 2010. These initial names were based on geographic locations and have been used on
plans, fact sheets and the website. Denver Transit Partners, the concessionaire on the Eagle P3 Project,
has given the Eagle Design Team a deadline of December 31, 2013, to confirm the official station names
in order for it to integrate the names into the signage design package, systems packages for LED and
LCD monitor displays, and audio announcements; and operations documents.
The Board previously voted to change the names of two stations on the Eagle P3 Project. On September
20, 2011, the Board approved changing the name of the East Corridor’s Colorado Station to 40th &
Colorado, based on Denver Fire’s request to differentiate the location from the existing Colorado Station
on the Southeast light rail corridor. Subsequently, on November 22, 2011, the Board approved changing
the name of the Northwest Rail Corridor’s South Westminster Station to Westminster Station, based on
a formal request from the City of Westminster to better fit into its land use planning in that area.
In order to respond to DTP’s deadline, Eagle Project staff met in early September with RTD Marketing to
apply RTD’s station naming policy to the station names on the project. Following that discussion, the
staff recommended these names, with three of them changed from their current names:
Northwest Rail Corridor:
Westminster (no change)
Gold Line Corridor:
41st & Fox (no change)
Pecos (no change)
60th & Federal

Packet Pg. 25

2.11.C

60th & Sheridan
Olde Town Arvada (no change)
Arvada Ridge (no change)
Wheat Ridge • Ward
East Corridor:
38th & Blake (no change)
40th & Colorado (no change)
Central Park (no change)
Peoria (no change)
40th & Airport (no change)
Denver International Airport (no change)
In Mid-September, the Eagle Design Team issued official letters to the six local governments on the
project to advise them of the proposed station names and provide them with the opportunity to request
alternate station names, if deemed appropriate and conforming to all the requirements of the RTD
Station Naming Policy. Local governments also would have to submit a completed RTD Station Naming
Form. The goal was to avoid later requests from stakeholders after DTP’s deadline.
DISCUSSION:
After RTD notified the local governments of the RTD recommended station names, RTD received the
following change requests:
Adams County requested the station at Pecos be changed to Pecos Junction.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Pecos Junction
This proposal supports Adams County’s land use planning for the southwest portion of the county along
the Gold Line and Northwest Rail, and takes its name from the geographical location of the physical
track interlock – or junction – where the Northwest Rail and Gold Line diverge from their shared
alignment south to Union Station.
Adams County requested the station at 60th & Federal be changed to Clear Creek • Federal.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Clear Creek • Federal
This proposal also supports Adams County’s land use planning for the southwest portion of the county.
It resolves the issue of multiple stations containing “Federal.” For fire and life safety reasons, it is
important to eliminate duplicate station names in the system and distinguish this station from West
Corridor’s Federal Center and Decatur • Federal stations. It adds a geographical identifier to the name,
including Clear Creek and the Clear Creek Trail, which can be accessed across 60th Avenue from this
station.
The City of Arvada requested the station at 60th & Sheridan be changed to 60th & Sheridan • Arvada
Gold Strike.
Staff Recommendation: Change to 60th Ave & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike
The proposal resolves the issue of multiple stations starting with “Sheridan” while also including a
geographical and historical identifier that is important to the City of Arvada. It is important to distinguish
this station from Sheridan Station on the West Corridor. The station is located less than a half mile from
the site of the first gold strike in what was to become the state of Colorado, in 1850 at Ralston Creek’s

Packet Pg. 26

2.11.C

confluence with Clear Creek. Arvada’s Gold Strike Park is located there. The Gold Line takes its name
from this historical point of fact.
The City of Aurora requested the station at 40th Ave & Airport Blvd be changed to 40th Ave & Airport
Blvd • Gateway Park.
Staff Recommendation: Change to 40th Ave & Airport Blvd • Gateway Park
The proposal includes the Gateway Park neighborhood in the station name while adhering to RTD policy
of listing street location identification. It also follows the precedent set at several stations including
Stapleton park-n-Ride, Southmoor Station and Arapahoe at Village Center Station. The 40th & Airport
Blvd park-n-Ride is an existing RTD facility, and under RTD policy third parties are to be responsible for
costs of changing the name. The master developer of the Gateway Park area has agreed to cover the
costs of updating station signage.
The City and County of Denver requested the station at Denver International Airport be changed to
Denver Airport.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Denver International Airport to Denver Airport
The proposal retains the most important element, that of the prominent destination. Airport managers
prefer the shorter name to facilitate designation on maps, signs and Ticket Vending Machines. More
importantly, airport managers have undertaken a marketing effort to reduce the use of the term “DIA,”
which is not the Airport Code known to most travelers. The Denver airport’s code is DEN. Airport
managers are concerned that visitors to Denver, who will make up a higher percentage of riders on the
East Corridor than other RTD rail lines, not face confusion when looking at maps or schedules by seeing
“DIA” as shorthand for the DEN rail station. It is likely that going forward, there will be more effort to
reduce the use of the word “International” in the airport’s name as well, so changing this station’s name
now eliminates the potential need to go through the expense of changing it later. RTD staff concurs with
the reasoning of airport managers for removing “International” from the station name and reducing the
likelihood of use of “DIA Station.” Clarity and consistency are important elements in communicating with
visitors to DEN and our new rail station there.
Staff Recommendation: Change to Ward Road to Wheat Ridge • Ward
In addition to changes requested by local governments, RTD staff recommends changing the name of
the Ward Road Station on the Gold Line to Wheat Ridge • Ward. This change is consistent with current
RTD policy. With only one exception, RTD does not use street name suffixes such as “St,” “Ave” or
“Blvd” as part of the station name. In addition to dropping “Road,” the recommendation adds the city’s
name, more consistent with the West Corridor’s “Lakewood • Wadsworth” and Southwest Corridor’s
“Littleton • Downtown” and “Littleton • Mineral.”
No Board action is required for the remaining Eagle P3 Project station names, which are unchanged.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
There is no negative financial impact to the project at this time. DTP is requiring RTD confirmation of the
official Station Names prior to December 31, 2013, in order to avoid costs that would be incurred with
changing station names after DTP commences with station signage and systems packages. RTD sought
local government input now in order to avoid redesign costs later. Any station name changes after
December 31, 2013, would have cost implications to either RTD or stakeholders.

Packet Pg. 27

2.11.C

ALTERNATIVES:
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the following station name changes for the Eagle P3 Project. For
comparison, the current station names in use are shown in parentheses.
Gold Line:
Pecos Junction (change from Pecos)
Clear Creek • Federal (change from Federal)
60th & Sheridan • Arvada Gold Strike (change from Sheridan)
Wheat Ridge • Ward (change from Ward Road)
East Corridor:
40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway Park (change from 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd)
Denver Airport (change from Denver International Airport)
2. Accept the initial RTD staff recommended three station name changes, not including the key
stakeholder requested changes: 60th & Federal, 60th & Sheridan, and Wheat Ridge • Ward. This is
not recommended as it is not responsive to key stakeholders’ land use planning and marketing
strategies around RTD rail stations, and invites renewed attempts to revisit station names after DTP’s
deadline, which would incur costs.
3. Do not accept the recommended action. Instead leave the names as currently defined. This is not
recommended as it would not be responsive to key stakeholders making the request. In addition, it
would leave in place several duplicate or similar rail station names in the RTD system at the risk of
fire and life safety response in emergency dispatch situations. The Board already has changed the
Colorado Station name to 40th & Colorado based on this reasoning.

Prepared by:
Caroline Seeberger, Architect Eagle P3
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 28

2.11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

November 13, 2013

Subject:

FasTracks
Citizens
Appointments

Assistant

Date: November 21, 2013
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors appoint
three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for three-year terms.
BACKGROUND
The seventeen-member FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) advises the District on matters
relating to the implementation of the voter approved FasTracks program, and performs such additional
duties as requested by RTD. The Committee serves in an advisory capacity through the designated
liaison to the Board of Directors, staff and project consultants
Five current members’ terms expire on December 31, 2013. Three members have served two full terms
on the Committee and are not eligible for reappointment. The two current members who are eligible for
reappointment have expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the Committee.
Recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the RTD Web site, a news
release sent to stakeholders, local publications and electronic broadcast media lists totaling 1,541
recipients, current CAC members for distribution to their networks, and through other distribution
channels. Applicants were asked to submit a one-page letter stating their interest in serving on the CAC
along with specific qualifications, highlights of related experience and expertise and a resume if
available. Forty applications were received by the deadline.
The Nominating Committee composed of two Board members and two Assistant General Managers,
recommend reappointment of the two current members who requested consideration based on
attendance, participation at meetings and Committee consistency. Representatives of the Nominating
Committee carefully reviewed each application received in order to fill the remaining three vacant
positions, considering criteria outlined in the Committee Structure adopted by the Board in 2005,
including:






Broad representation of stakeholder interests
Diversity
Demonstrated interest in public transit and/or the FasTracks program
Previous community service
Professional experience.

The Nominating Committee also took into consideration feedback and input from Board members given
during the year at Board committee meetings and during one-on-one meetings with the CAC co-chairs.

Packet Pg. 29

2.11.D

The following current members are recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring December 31, 2016:
Bob Rizzuto is currently a Co-Owner and Broker Associate with KW Commercial Real Estate. Prior to
real estate, he spent over 30 years in senior management positions in both the private and public
sectors. He has served on many civic and professional organizations, including Jefferson County
Economic Development Corporation, Meeker Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors, Lamar City
Council, Applewood Business Association, Rotary International, Boy Scouts of America (Assistant Scout
Master), Junior Achievement, National Association of College and University Business Officers
(NACUBO) and Western Association of College and University Business Officers (WACUBO). He holds a
Master’s of Business Administration from the Colorado Division of the University of Phoenix. He is a
resident of RTD District M.
Karen Stuart is the former Mayor of the City and County of Broomfield, serving three terms, during
which time she was known for her regional collaboration and strong support of FasTracks. Stuart is the
Executive Director of Smart Commute Metro North Transportation Management Organization; a nonprofit, public-private partnership formed to promote transportation options and improvements, foster
economic vitality and enhance mobility in the Metro North region. She holds a Bachelor of Science
degree in Sociology from Marymount College, and a certificate from the Senior Executives in State and
Local Government Program from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Ms.
Stuart is a resident of RTD District J.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to three-year terms expiring on December
31, 2016:
Tyler Kealy is a Client Service and Fund Accountant for Public Trust Advisors, a two-year old startup
finance firm in Denver. In 2011, Kealy graduated Magna Cum Laude from the Daniels College of
Business, University of Denver with a Bachelors of Science/Bachelors of Arts Degree in Finance. He was
a budget analyst intern for the Regional Transportation District, where he played a major role in
overhauling the District’s annual budget report with an emphasis on communicating RTD’s goals and
major accomplishments to the public. Kealy is a self-described “transit-dependent young adult” and
commutes regularly by bus and light rail. He is a resident of RTD District A.
Vivian Stovall is a retired Operation Support Coordinator at Denver General Hospital where she was
responsible for providing communications and vehicle maintenance support for the hospital. She
travelled the state of Colorado as a member of Governor Bill Ritter’s Transportation Finance and
Implementation Blue Ribbon Panel, outlining recommendations about how to address Colorado’s
transportation needs. Stovall is a member of the Denver Election Division Advisory Committee, the
Denver Regional Council of Government (DRCOG) Aging Advisory Committee, the Denver Commission
on Aging, and the Colorado Alliance for Retired Americans and other civic- and community-based
organizations. A recent graduate of the Transit Alliance Academy, she is a resident of RTD District C.
Darcy Wilson is president of Stan-Mar, Incorporated, a multi-disciplined construction company, which
has helped build numerous national and international airports; hospitals, sports arenas, transit projects,
and real estate development infrastructure projects. Wilson has worked tirelessly for years serving
community non-profit organizations such as the Committee for City and Airport Fairness, Denver
Scholarship Foundation, Epworth Foundation and Stapleton Redevelopment workforce development
committee. She holds a Master's in Computer Information Science emphasizing GIS from the University

Packet Pg. 30

2.11.D

of Denver but her true passion throughout the years has been to ensure all segments of our community
are allowed economic empowerment. She is a resident of RTD District B.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors appoint three (3) new members and reappoint two (2) members
to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for
three-year terms.
2. Modify the recommended appointments to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee. This is
not recommended as the appointments follow an extensive public application process and are
within the parameters of the Committee Structure adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
3. Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would delay
the appointment process of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee.

Prepared by:
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, Inc.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 31

2.11.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Resolution No. _, Series of 2013 Related to the
Issuance of RTD Certificates of Participation

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the intent of
the District to use proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement
to reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the North Metro rail line
project.
BACKGROUND:
The District is currently in the process of negotiating a contract with Graham, Balfour Beatty, Hamon
Contractors for the design and construction of the North Metro rail line project. The FasTracks
budget anticipates that the North Metro rail line project will be partially financed with lease purchase
obligations (“Certificates of Participation” or “COPs”).
DISCUSSION:
Under a COP structure, RTD leases certain assets and makes rental payments under a lease, subject
to appropriation by the Board of Directors. The COPs are sold to investors and are evidenced by
assignments of proportionate interests in the rights to receive payments under the lease. The leased
assets serve as collateral for the COPs such that, in the event of RTD non-appropriation or default,
the assets may be sold, leased, repossessed, liquidated or otherwise disposed of with proceeds being
utilized to redeem COPs.
With limited exceptions, proceeds from COPs may not be used to reimburse the issuer for expenses
made prior to the execution and delivery of the lease unless the issuer has executed a reimbursement
resolution similar to the attached Reimbursement Resolution. Reimbursement resolutions similar to
this one have been adopted by the Board in the past for bond and COP issuances.
In order to allow the District to finance any expenditures related to the leased assets which may
occur prior to the execution of the financing, the Board is being requested to adopt the
Reimbursement Resolution.
It is currently anticipated that the COPs will be issued in April of 2014. The lease, indenture, official
statement and other pertinent documents will be presented to the Board of Directors for review and
approval prior to the marketing of the COPs.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company, as independent financial advisor on the
transaction.

Packet Pg. 32

2.11.E

FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Lease rent and lease interest costs on the COPs are included in the 2014 budget. Costs associated
with the issuance of the securities will be funded out of COP proceeds. These costs include
underwriters’ discount, financial advisory fees, attorneys’ fees, printing costs and the like.
ALTERNATIVES:
1.

Authorize Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 declaring the intent of the District to use
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the North Metro
rail line project. This is the recommended action.

2.

Do not authorize Resolution No. ___, Series of 2013 declaring the intent of the District to
use proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the North Metro
rail line project. This is not the recommended action and may disallow the District from
reimbursing itself for any expenses made prior to the close of the transaction.

ATTACHMENTS:


Reimbursement Resolution (2013 Metro North) (2)

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 33

RESOLUTION NO. _____

A RESOLUTION EXPRESSING THE INTENT OF THE
BOARD TO BE REIMBURSED FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES
RELATING TO THE FINANCING OF THE NORTH
METRO RAIL LINE.
WHEREAS, it is the current intent of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the
Regional Transportation District to acquire land for, design and construct the North Metro Rail
Line (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Board currently believes that it is in the best interest of the
District to finance the Project through the execution and delivery of one or more lease purchase
agreements; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it may be necessary to make capital
expenditures to acquire the Project prior to the time that the District arranges for the specific
financing of such Project; and
WHEREAS, it is the Board’s reasonable expectation that when such financing
occurs, the capital expenditures will be reimbursed with the proceeds of the financing; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), it is the Board’s desire that this resolution shall constitute the
“official intent” of the Board to reimburse such capital expenditures within the meaning of
Treasury Regulation §1.150-2.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT:
Section 1.
All action (not inconsistent with the provisions of this resolution)
heretofore taken by the Board and the officers, employees and agents of the District directed
toward the Bonds is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
The District intends to finance approximately $480,000,000 to pay
the costs of the Project, including the reimbursement of certain costs incurred by the District
prior to the receipt of any proceeds of a financing, upon terms acceptable to the District, as
authorized in a resolution to be hereafter adopted and to take all further action which is necessary
or desirable in connection therewith.
Section 3.
The officers, employees and agents of the District shall take all
action necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby and shall take all action necessary or desirable to finance the
Project and to otherwise carry out the transactions contemplated by the resolution.

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Reimbursement Resolution (2013 Metro North) (2) (1808 : Resolution No._, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD

2.11.E.a

Section 4.
The officers and employees of the District are hereby authorized
and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provision of this
resolution.
Section 5.
The District shall not use reimbursed moneys for purposes
prohibited by Treasury Regulation §1.150-2(h).
Section 6.
This resolution is intended to be a declaration of “official intent” to
reimburse expenditures within the meaning of Treasury Regulation §1.150-2
Section 7.
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this resolution
shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this
resolution.
Section 8.
All acts, orders and resolutions of the Board, and parts thereof,
inconsistent with this resolution be, and the same hereby are, repealed to the extent only of such
inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed to revive any act, order or resolution, or part
thereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 9.

The resolution shall in full force and effect upon its passage and

approval.
PASSED THIS DECEMBER 17, 2013, BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By: ____________________________
Chairman
(SEAL)
ATTEST:

By: ___________________________
Secretary

PUBFIN/1701483.1

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Reimbursement Resolution (2013 Metro North) (2) (1808 : Resolution No._, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD

2.11.E.a

2.11.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 5, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Radio-CAD/AVL
Owner’s
Representative
Contract Sixth-Year Amendment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to amend the
contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and
Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016).
This contract amendment is for the sixth year, which is the final option year of the contract. The scope
and fee are renegotiated annually. The sixth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,400,000 for a total
contract value to date of $12,022,000.

BACKGROUND
RTD has been in the process of replacing our radio and CAD/AVL system over the past several years.
RTD formerly operated a 450MHz analog radio communication system that supported voice and data
communications between dispatchers, bus and light rail operators, Transit Police and field support staff
for RTD’s operations. The radio system was integrated with the CAD/AVL system. The system was
initially implemented in 1993 and was past the last years of the industry’s common 15-year service life.
Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) required changes to the available radio
frequency bandwidth, which were not compatible with the former radio and CAD/AVL design. This
narrow-banding requirement has been met.
The scope of work and fee for this Board-approved contract is negotiated annually to allow the contract
to adjust to changes related to the design choices RTD makes. Although the installations are complete
and the system is operational, there are many remaining efforts required as a foundation for the
extended operations and maintenance of the systems, processes and infrastructure. These and a few
supplemental assignments include general program management, documentation of various elements,
activity planning and administration, establishment of ongoing long-term operations and maintenance
structure, and a variety of system acceptance testing.
RTD requires the services of an Owner’s Representative (OR) for the Radio-CAD/AVL Replacement
Project to provide highly technical, managerial, business services to support the agency through the final
stages of the project and planning for moving into operations. The OR will provide unique technical
skills unavailable internally to RTD.
RTD issued Contract No. 18DH016 to obtain an Owner’s Representative for the Radio-CAD/AVL
Replacement Project. IBI was selected in 2009 by competitive procurement to be RTD’s Owner’s
Representative for the Radio and CAD/AVL Replacement Project. The contract requires eight (8) percent
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. IBI is currently exceeding their goal.

Packet Pg. 36

2.11.F

This is a complex and dynamic project. IBI has successfully completed the work anticipated for the
earlier years and it is in RTD’s interest to authorize a contract amendment for the sixth year of the
contract to continue needed support.
DISCUSSION
This is the start of the optional sixth year of a Board-approved contract. Due to the complexity and
changing conditions of the project, each year’s scope of work and fee are reviewed and negotiated
annually.
Although implementation for the CAD/AVL project is winding down, significant work remains to conduct
system acceptance testing, review and finalize as-built documentation, develop reporting, and conduct
planning to move into operations and maintenance of the system.
The anticipated sixth-year activities are:








Final system acceptance testing, which will extend well into 2014
Implementation of pending INIT contract amendments, addressing elements such as the HOP and
Call-n-Ride installations and enhancements
Radio system capacity expansion
Testing and implementation of subsequent phases of Smart Media Technology
Disaster Recovery (DR) and Continuation of Operations Plan (CoOP) update and implementation
Study of scheduling tools feeding the CAD system for service optimization and operational
interactions with fleet and resource management
General Intelligent Transportation System / CAD / Communications consultancy demands in
support of RTD operations and FasTrack activities.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost to the District for amending the Owner’s Representative contract with IBI Group for the sixth
year is a not-to-exceed cost of $2,400,000. Funding has been included in the 2014 Finance and
Administration Department’s Information Technology Division capital and operating budget. The
contract values for the first five years is cumulatively $9,622,000 and with this 6th year addition total
award is $12,022,000.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the request for the Radio-CAD/AVL Replacement Project Owner’s Representative
contract amendment which will reduce risk and allow current RTD employees to continue
focusing on operating and improving the system. This is the staff recommended action.
2. Attempt to accomplish the project with in-house staff. RTD staff does not have the necessary
skills or available resources to undertake this project.
If the IBI agreement is not approved and these resources are not available, the project would proceed
with a combination of Work Order contractors and RTD staff. It is likely that Alternative 2 will incur
additional cost for another vendor’s learning curve.

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT

Packet Pg. 37

2.11.F

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 38

2.11.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 2, 2013

From:

David Genova, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short
Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract 11 DO-025 Contract Amendment.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to allow for additional
architectural / engineering design services in the amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed
contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended
amount is to be funded by various Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing
projects under contract.
BACKGROUND
Services rendered under this contract provide mechanical, civil, architectural, electrical, structural, and
landscaping, design and engineering services for the development of selected projects included in RTD's
SBP program and grant funded projects. The contract duration was specified for a three year term from
October 13, 2011 to October 13, 2014 with award being in the amount of $500,000. Allowable, are
two, one-year extensions to the contract. This board action is to increase the existing not-to-exceed limit
in the contract. All other terms and conditions of the contract remain unchanged. Consultant
responsibilities include preparation of drawings and specifications for construction in addition to
estimating and other construction related services such as change order documentation, preparation of
as-built drawings, and site inspections. The purpose of this contract is to assist the Facilities Engineering
Division with design services that cannot be completed with in-house staff.
DISCUSSION
The initial contract amount was $500,000. In May of 2012 the Board approved an additional
$1,500,000 that was based primarily on the Civic Center rehabilitation project. To date, including the
Civic Center project the contract has obligated $1,931,381 for nine projects leaving a contractual
balance of $68,619. Additional funding to the contract is required to accommodate approved 2014
through 2015 SBP projects.
SBE/DBE INVOLVEMENT
This contract does not have a SBE/DBE goal.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This contract utilizes grant and local funds. The types of funds are dependent upon the funding source
of each individual project. Individual work orders will be funded as the project requirement is processed.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO025 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is administered on

Packet Pg. 39

2.11.G

an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by various Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under contract.
2. Do not Accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to amend
contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in
the amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by various
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under contract. Not
accepting the recommended action is not recommended because it would delay the schedule of
the approved 2014 SBP projects.
3. Do not Accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to amend
contract 11 DO-025 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in
the amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $3,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by various
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved future projects and existing projects under contract.
Instead, proceed with the implementation of a new Architectural / Engineering RFP for a contract
with a new consultant team. This is not recommended because of the delay it will cause on the
approved 2014 SBP projects.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 40

2.11.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 2, 2013

From:

David Genova, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 2, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Increase the General Manager’s Signature
Authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-ofWay Renovation/Tenant Finish Project.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment signature authority for the Rio Court Maintenanceof-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project be increased from $500,000 to $700,000.
BACKGROUND
The site/facility was acquired to accommodate the relocation of the Burnham Yard lead track due to
construction of the West Line project. The lead track that was relocated was aligned through the south
end of the property. The original plan was to raze the entire building that resided on the site. After
consideration, it was determined to remove only a portion of the building and utilize the rest for a new
light rail maintenance-of-way (MOW) facility needed to accommodate growth of the light rail system.
The renovated facility will house all light rail MOW requirements to maintain all track work, signal,
communication and power systems for all RTD light rail corridors including the West Line and I-225. All
functions will be relocated from the existing Mariposa MOW facility that no longer accommodates light
rail’s expanded needs.
DISCUSSION
The Board authorized award to Calahan Construction in March of 2013 in the amount of $3,472,630.
To date, two amendments have been processed for a total of $123,511. Some of these unforeseen
conditions were; a new fire hydrant, waste water utility upgrades for code compliance, communication
feed by Century Link, and fire sprinkler revisions to comply with Denver Fire Department codes. Pending
changes include; a second fire hydrant which includes a fire loop, RTD security equipment, suitable
backfill dirt for utility trenches, and the utility connection from the facility to the new fueling station.
SBE INVOLVEMENT
The SBE goal was advertised at 25%. Currently, Calahan Construction is performing at 47%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the project is included in the 2013 approved budget. The construction budget is
$4,905,403 with $495,452 being CDOT FASTER grant funding and $4,409,951 of local funding.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract amendment
signature authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project be
increased from $500,000 to $700,000.

Packet Pg. 41

2.11.H

2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. It is not recommended by the Operations and Customer
Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract
amendment signature authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish
Project be increased from $500,000 to $700,000. This action would prevent the timely completion
of the project.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. It is not recommended by the Operations and Customer
Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager’s contract
amendment signature authority for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish
Project be increased from $500,000 to $700,000. Alternatively, complete the project as is and rebid
all remaining pending work. This alternative would delay the project and present several challenges in
regards to warranties, construction permits, and the certificate-of-occupancy.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 42

2.11.I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

DRCOG Vanpool Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support and
expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement
is for calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $700,000.00.
BACKGROUND
Vanpooling is a transportation option in which commuters/employees whose residences are
geographically clustered ride together to and from their work sites in a van that is driven and maintained
by one of the vanpool participants. Typically, the vans carry from six (6) to twelve (12) riders and are
provided by the vanpool program. Vanpools are organized to be sustainable and to render regular, ongoing service to vanpool members on a break-even, cost sharing, fare basis. Vanpools eliminate the costs
associated with dedicated drivers and expensive equipment.
As a transportation mode, vanpools provide personalized transportation at low cost and offer greater
opportunities for increased capacity as compared to carpooling. Vanpools also offer a cost-effective
alternative to conventional transit service in areas of low population density and longer commute
distances.

DISCUSSION
RTD has supported the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program since 2001. The vanpool program had
previously experienced limited participation due to perceived high fares, insufficient funding for van
acquisition, difficulties in recruiting drivers, and the lack of funding to support necessary marketing
activities. In order to help overcome these barriers, the RTD and the DRCOG entered into a partnership in
April of 2001 to expand vanpool service in the Denver metropolitan area. In doing so, RTD and DRCOG
believed that the organizations could make meaningful advances toward meeting shared goals of offering
desirable mobility options, reducing traffic congestion, and improving air quality in the Denver
metropolitan area. Benefits for RTD include substantial cost savings from avoidance and/or replacement
on marginal bus routes with vanpools. Benefits to both RTD and DRCOG include complementary
marketing programs and increased commuter transportation alternatives.

Packet Pg. 43

2.11.I

RTD financial support is used to help to underwrite the vanpool pricing structure in order to make vanpool
fares more competitive in the transportation marketplace. By subsidizing vanpool fares, vanpools are able
to compete with other transit alternatives and are perceived as a more attractive alternative for area
commuters. In addition, RTD support is used to provide incentives to attract and retain vanpool drivers
and to provide capital funding to acquire necessary rolling stock to provide vanpool services. Since the
advent of RTD support for the vanpool program in late 2001, the number of vans in service grew from 11
to 107 vans.
In 2009 the vanpool program became difficult to manage due to a shortage of DRCOG personnel.
DRCOG looked outside their agency at private companies currently operating vanpool services in other
metropolitan areas. After a competitive bid process, DRCOG choose VPSI to operate the vanpool
program. VPSI took over all operating aspects of the vanpool program. Currently the vanpools carry an
average of 5.8 riders per van and the fleet is at 80% capacity.
DRCOG vanpool performance through the 3rd Quarter in 2013 resulted in an RTD subsidy per passenger
trip of approximately $2.21. For comparison, the subsidy per passenger for RTD fixed route service in
2012 ranged from an average of $2.85 subsidy per passenger for CBD local routes to an average of
$6.66 subsidy per passenger for suburban local service and an average of $5.23 subsidy per passenger
for regional service.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the DRCOG Van pool program are budgeted in the approved 2014 budget.
Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the financial support of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool service in order to continue
to provide and expand this transportation option for residents of the Denver metropolitan area
who work/commute in the Denver metropolitan area.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program which would
result in an increase in single occupant commuting.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 44

2.11.J

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

North Front Range Vanpool Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD
support and continued expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $450,000.00.
BACKGROUND
Vanpooling is a transportation option in which commuters/employees whose residences are
geographically clustered ride together to and from their work sites in a van that is driven and maintained
by one of the vanpool participants. Typically, the vans carry from six (6) to twelve (12) riders and are
provided by the vanpool program. Vanpools are organized to be sustainable and to render regular, ongoing service to vanpool members on a break-even, cost sharing, fare basis. Vanpools eliminate the costs
associated with dedicated drivers and expensive equipment.
As a transportation mode, vanpools provide personalized transportation at low cost and offer greater
opportunities for increased capacity as compared to carpooling. Vanpools also offer a cost-effective
alternative to conventional transit service in areas of low population density and longer commute
distances.

DISCUSSION
RTD has supported the NFRMPO VANGO vanpool program since 2003. The program targets long
distance commuters who live in Northern Colorado and who travel to the Denver metropolitan area. Of
the vans in operation, 75% provide service in the RTD district. The RTD subsidy is based on vanpool
travel within the RTD district. The vanpool program had been limited by perceived high fares, insufficient
funding for van acquisition, difficulties in recruiting drivers, and the lack of funding to support necessary
marketing activities. In order to help overcome these barriers, the RTD and the NFRMPO entered into a
partnership in 2003 to expand vanpool service coming into the Denver metropolitan area. In doing so,
RTD and NFRMPO believed that the organizations could make meaningful advances toward meeting
shared goals of offering desirable mobility options, reducing traffic congestion, and improving air quality
in the Denver metropolitan area. RTD financial support is used to help to underwrite the vanpool pricing
structure in order to make vanpool fares more competitive in the transportation marketplace. By
subsidizing vanpool fares, vanpools are able to compete with other transit alternatives and are perceived
as a more attractive alternative for area commuters. In addition, RTD’s support is used to provide
incentives to attract and retain vanpool drivers and to provide capital funding to acquire necessary rolling
stock to provide vanpool services. In return for this funding NFRMPO provides RTD with National
Transportation Data. This data is included in the NTD numbers reported by RTD and used by the Federal
Government to determine the amount of federal funding allocated to RTD. Since the advent of RTD
support for the vanpool program in late 2003, the number of vans serving the Denver metropolitan area
has grown from 28 to 54 vans.

Packet Pg. 45

2.11.J

RTD shall contribute funding to NFRMPO to support the provision of the VANGO vanpool service in an
amount not to exceed $450,000.00 in 2013. NFRMPO vanpool performance through the 3 rd Quarter in
2013 resulted in an RTD subsidy of approximately $4.24 per passenger trip. For comparison, the subsidy
per passenger for RTD fixed route service in 2012 ranged from an average of $2.85 subsidy per
passenger for CBD local routes to an average of $6.66 subsidy per passenger for suburban local service
and an average of $5.23 subsidy per passenger for regional service.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the NFRMPO VANGO vanpool program are included in the approved 2014 RTD
budget. Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the financial support of the NFRMPO VANGO vanpool service in order to continue to
provide and expand this transportation option for residents of Northern Colorado who commute to
and work in the Denver metropolitan area.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the VANGO vanpool program which would result in an
increase in single occupant commuting.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 46

2.11.K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

City of Boulder Hop Cost Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a
Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of
the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of
Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year
2014 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,484,378.00.
BACKGROUND
The City of Boulder has funded and provided circulator bus service, known as the HOP, within the City
of Boulder since October of 1994. This service provides mobility and access to the commercial areas of
the city, the University of Colorado at Boulder, and adjacent business and residential developments.
RTD also provides extensive bus service to/from and within the City of Boulder. RTD and the City of
Boulder have worked together to assure that these services are complementary and work together to
provide attractive and effective transit service for people living, studying and working in the area.
The HOP currently operates from 7:00 AM to 10:00 PM on weekdays, from 9:00 AM to 10:00 PM on
Saturdays, and from 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM on Sundays and holidays. In addition, Night HOP service is
provided and funded entirely by the University of Colorado. Currently, the HOP provides approximately
2,800 passenger trips per weekday.

DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to the City of Boulder to support the operation of the HOP in an amount
not to exceed $1,484,378.00 in 2014.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. HOP performance will be assessed at the end of the
year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if continuation of the
cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service
standards. If it appears that service performance does not warrant continuation, RTD and the City of
Boulder will confer on modifications to the service in order to bring it into conformance. The provision
of HOP service through 3rd Quarter in 2013 resulted in 27.5 passengers per hour and an RTD subsidy
per HOP passenger trip of $1.61. For comparison, the subsidy per passenger for RTD fixed route
service in 2012 ranged from an average of $2.85 subsidy per passenger for CBD local routes to an
average of $6.66 subsidy per passenger for suburban local service and an average of $5.23 subsidy
per passenger for regional service.

Packet Pg. 47

2.11.K

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the HOP service were included in the approved 2014 RTD budget. Nothing
herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the cost sharing agreement with the City of Boulder for the HOP circulator bus service
so that the City of Boulder can continue to provide this service to the residents, students and
businesses in the City of Boulder.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the heavily-used HOP circulator service.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 48

2.11.L

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

5311 Cost Share Agreements

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into
funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD
financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County,
Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2014 and for amounts
not to exceed $343,680.00 for Boulder County, $338,250.00 for Adams County and $104,804.00 for
Jefferson County.
BACKGROUND
The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEALU), along with previous transit legislation, provided for the funding of transit services in non-urbanized,
or rural, areas. The section of the Act that addressed the provision of services in non-urbanized areas
was Section 5311 and thus these services were often referred to as “5311 service.” In 2013,
SAFETEA-LU was replaced by new transportation authorizing legislation known as Moving Ahead for
Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). Since 1991, RTD has provided funding to various private,
non-profit agencies to assist with the provision of transit services in non-urbanized areas of the District
and to provide local match money for federal grant funds to support the provision of 5311 services in
the District. RTD has provided financial assistance for the provision of non-urbanized service in
Jefferson County since 1991 and has provided financial assistance for the provision of non-urbanized
service in Adams and Boulder Counties since 1993.

DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized
services in Boulder County in an amount not to exceed $343,680.00 in 2014. RTD shall also
contribute funding to Via Mobility Services to support the provision of non-urbanized services in Adams
County in amount not to exceed $338,250.00 in 2014.
RTD shall contribute funding to Seniors’ Resource Center to support the provision of non-urbanized
services in Jefferson County in an amount not to exceed $104,804.00 in 2014.
These Agreements will be for a period of one year. 5311 performance will be assessed at the end of
the year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if continuation of
the funding agreements is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of RTD’s service
standards. If it appears that service performance will not warrant continuation, RTD and the affected
party(s) will confer on modifications needed to bring it into conformance. The provision of 5311
service thus far in 2013 (current numbers available) has resulted in monthly performance that has
ranged from 1.8 to 2.2 passengers per hour and an RTD subsidy per passenger boarding ranging from
approximately $2.15 to approximately $4.66 (subsidy reflects only the RTD contribution). As a
comparison, RTD Call-n-Ride monthly performance averaged 4.4 passengers per hour in 2012 while

Packet Pg. 49

2.11.L

RTD Access-a-Ride service performs at approximately 1.2 passengers per hour.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the 5311 services were included in the approved 2014 RTD budget. This
Agreement will be for a period of one year. Nothing herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this
Agreement.

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the 5311 cost sharing agreements with Via Mobility Services and Seniors’ Resource
Center so that these organizations can continue to provide transit services to individuals in the
non-urbanized, rural areas of Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of transit services in the non-urbanized, rural areas of
Boulder, Adams, and Jefferson counties.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 50

2.12.M

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Approval of Sales and Use Tax Compliance
Review Contractor

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager to approve a two year contract with an additional one year option
with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales and use tax compliance review services. The
contract will be paid on a labor hour basis with an annual not-to-exceed amount of $607,500.
BACKGROUND
Following the recommendations from staff and the RTD Fiscal Sustainability Committee, the Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager to pursue sales and use tax compliance reviews as a revenue
enhancement initiative. This initiative is also included as a Risk Allocation Matrix item. In September,
RTD completed negotiations and entered an intergovernmental agreement (IGA) with the Colorado
Department of Revenue (DOR) to allow RTD to issue a request for proposals (RFP) for a third party to
provide tax compliance review services to supplement the services currently performed by the DOR.
DISCUSSION
The DOR performs sales and use tax collection and compliance services for RTD’s 1.0% sales and use
tax. The DOR is spending an annual amount of $1.4 million to provide these services for RTD while RTD
is paying the DOR $0.5 million based on a statutory formula. RTD is looking to enhance its partnership
with the DOR to increase sales and use tax revenues through these supplementary compliance services.
Sales and use taxes comprise approximately two thirds of RTD’s annual revenues. Due to RTD’s
reliance on this substantial source of revenue to provide services and to service its debt, it is critical that
tax remittances are accurate and timely. To date, RTD has improved its sales and use tax forecasting by
contracting with the CU Leeds School of Business and has streamlined its tax base through legislation
establishing exemption parity with the state. With the issuance of the tax compliance review services
RFP, RTD is taking a further step towards completing its sales and use tax initiatives.
RTD received three proposals in response to this RFP. The proposal evaluation committee selected
Revenue Recovery Group (RRG) as the firm to be awarded this contract. Proposal selection criteria were
based on best value in providing an understanding of the scope of work, firm experience, personnel
experience and cost.
Services provided will be paid on a labor hour basis with an estimated 4,500 hours of service provided
annually. Potential engagements will be presented to RTD by RRG after a discovery period. RTD will
then approve the engagement, along with DOR’s concurrence, before fieldwork begins.
Each
engagement will be evaluated before approval to proceed is granted. Under the terms of the DOR IGA,
RRG may also perform compliance reviews for state and municipal sales and use taxes during the same
engagement to avoid multiple engagements for a single vendor.

Packet Pg. 51

2.12.M

While RTD expects that, overall, these services will result in additional tax revenues, it is also expected
that some engagements will result in refunds to vendors. A benefit of providing these services is also to
assist and educate vendors with the complexities of tax filing requirements with the primary goal being
to provide assurance that tax filing compliance is met.
In addition to tax compliance reviews, the scope of the services includes providing information and
reporting, to the extent permissible under state confidentiality regulations, to RTD for analysis.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
It is anticipated that the additional sales and use tax revenues recovered will significantly exceed the
cost of this service. The cost of these services has been included in the 2014 Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager to approve a two year contract with an additional one year
option with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales and use tax compliance review
services. The contract will be paid on a labor hour basis with an annual not-to-exceed amount
of $607,500.
2. Further modify the compliance review services contract. This is not recommended because it will
delay the implementation of these services which are constrained by a fixed term under the DOR
IGA.
3. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve a two year contract with an additional one
year option with Revenue Recovery Group to provide sales and use tax compliance review
services. This is not the recommended action because RTD would not have the opportunity
to ensure greater tax compliance and enhance its tax reporting capabilities.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 52

2.12.N

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 4, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Approval of the Purchase of Four Electric
Multiple Units (EMU) Cars for the Eagle Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase of four Electric Multiple Units
(EMU) cars for the Eagle Project through the Denver Transit Partners (DTP), for an amount not to
exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the Eagle
Project budget to fund the purchase of the additional four EMU cars.
BACKGROUND
As part of the Eagle Project, RTD defined the minimum service requirements through year 2044 for
which DTP are responsible and DTP has demonstrated that the 50 EMU cars included in the
Concession are adequate to achieve those goals.
Subsequent analysis by staff has shown that some additional special event service to serve large
events in the region, as well as heavy travel days such as around Thanksgiving and others, would be
beneficial. In addition, while staff has conducted numerous and extensive planning analyses to
determine the anticipated operational requirements for the Eagle Project, these studies are not an
exact science and it is likely that operational needs over the years of operations will be somewhat
different from that anticipated. Having some additional EMU cars will provide the flexibility to allow
these revised needs to be met.
In order to achieve these goals for our customers, staff has determined that an additional four EMU
cars would be adequate to provide this additional capability, greatly enhancing the service RTD can
provide over the life of the EMU fleet.
DISCUSSION
As part of the North Metro project RTD is planning to purchase six additiona l EMU cars to facilitate
operation on the segment from DUS to 124 th Avenue as approved by the Board on November 26,
2013. During discussions with DTP, in order to purchase these EMU cars for the North Metro
project it has been established that the window of opportunity in the manufacturing process to
purchase any additional EMU cars technically consistent with the current fleet and at an acceptable
cost is rapidly closing. It has also become apparent during these discussions that increasing the
number of EMU cars that RTD purchases now will have a significant effect on the unit cost of each
of the EMU cars, resulting in a cost savings for the North Metro project.
We recommend purchasing four EMU cars through the Eagle Concession Agreement (CA) because
the price is reasonable, allows for interchangeable parts with the Eagle EMU fleet, and facilitates

Packet Pg. 53

2.12.N

improved special events service on the East Rail Line, the Gold Line, the Northwest Rail Line and the
North Metro Line.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the purchase of the four EMU cars would be provided through use of CMAQ monies
available to the Eagle Project and through the recommended transfer of $7.5 million from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve. Staff will investigate additional funding sources to replenis h the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve at a future date.
Payment for each EMU car shall be made by RTD to the Concessionaire consistent with the payment
schedule provided in CA Section 31.1(i).
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the
purchase of four Electric Multiple Units (EMU) cars for the Eagle Project through the Denver
Transit Partners (DTP), for an amount not to exceed $18 million.
It is further recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to transfer $7.5 million from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve
to the Eagle Project budget to fund the purchase of the additional four EMU cars.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Remain with the current fleet and accept reduced
capacity to serve special events, reduced flexibility to meet needs that may develop in the future
and pay a premium for any future small order size for North Metro project.

Prepared by:
Brian Middleton, FasTracks Program Management
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 54

2.12.O

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: December 5, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

December 4, 2013

Board Meeting Date: December 12, 2013

Subject:

Englewood Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the
art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2014 and is for
an amount not to exceed $282,000.00.
BACKGROUND
In 2003 the City of Englewood applied for and received a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ)
Grant for a circulator bus service. This grant was approved with funding available 2004-2007. CMAQ
funds were approved for 80% of the cost of the service. RTD contributed 10% of the expense and the
City of Englewood contributed 10%. The art shuttle was a free service. In September 2007, with the
expiration of the CMAQ grant, the RTD took over funding of the art shuttle. The City of Englewood
continues the management and marketing of the art shuttle. The City of Englewood covers all marketing
and related expenses. The art shuttle continues to be a free service that is sponsored by the City of
Englewood. The City of Englewood reimburses RTD for the fares that would have been paid if the art
shuttle charged a RTD fare.
The art shuttle currently operates from 6:30 AM to 6:30 PM on weekdays. There is no service on
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. The shuttle operates between the Englewood light rail station and
Swedish Medical Center/Craig Hospital. The art shuttle operates as a free shuttle on a fifteen (15)
minute frequency. Ridership has averaged 828.3 boardings per day or 30.9 passengers per hour.

DISCUSSION
RTD shall contribute funding to the City of Englewood to support the operation of the art shuttle in an
amount not to exceed $282,000 in 2014.
This Agreement will be for a period of one year. The performance of the art shuttle will be assessed at
the end of the year to determine if performance expectations have been met and to determine if
continuation of the cost sharing agreement is warranted. Performance will be evaluated in terms of
RTD’s service standards. If it appears that service performance will not warrant continuation, RTD and
the City of Englewood will confer on modifications to the service in order to bring it into conformance.
The provision of art shuttle service through 3rd Quarter in 2013 resulted in 30.9 passengers per hour and
an RTD subsidy per art shuttle passenger trip of $1.30. For comparison, the subsidy per passenger for
RTD fixed route service in 2012 ranged from an average of $2.85 subsidy per passenger for CBD local
routes to an average of $6.66 subsidy per passenger for suburban local service and an average of $5.23
subsidy per passenger for regional service. The City of Englewood will continue to pay for all fares for the
art shuttle.

Packet Pg. 55

2.12.O

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for RTD support of the art shuttle were included in the approved 2014 RTD budget. Nothing
herein obligates the RTD to renew or extend this Agreement.

ALTERNATIVES
1.
Approve the cost sharing agreement with the City of Englewood for the art shuttle circulator bus
service so that the City of Englewood can continue to provide this service to the residents,
visitors and businesses in the City of Englewood.
2.
Do not approve the cost sharing agreement. This course of action is not recommended as it may
result in a reduction to or elimination of the art shuttle circulator service.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 56

