Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday February 6 2007 Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 9, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, February 6, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD
Basement

Please Note:

Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee will meet the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Committee Chair: Director Chacon; Vice-Chair, Director Elfenbein;
Chairperson Martinez, Director Busck, Director Brohl, Director Daly,
Director Kemp, Director Kinton, Director Quinlan, Director McMullen,
Director Pulliam, Director Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer,
Director Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Phil Washington, , John Shonsey, , Bill Van
Meter, Pauletta Tonilas, Caitlin Magee, Ron Dodsworth, Paula Perdue,
Lisa Trujillo, Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Lloyd Mack, Tony McCaulay, Scott Reed, Cal Shankster,
Roger Sherman, John Tarbert, Kevin Diviness

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow
****

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

I.

FasTracks Monitoring Update
Updates:
 Program Wide-Annual Program Evaluation – Liz Rao, Assistant General
Manager Planning and Development, provided a status update on the
comprehensive re-evaluation process with focus on scope, costs, cost
reduction/containment, schedule, financial plan and revenue and financing
options. For more information on each item, please refer to the FasTracks
Status Update document dated 2/6/2007 located in the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Monday, January 8, 2007 Page 2 of 2


Stakeholder Participation Policy – Liz Rao provided information on a policy
for type and level of stakeholder participation during the different phases of
project development, including the review of the policy with the Citizens
Advisory Committee and FasTracks Monitoring Committee.



FasTracks Web Site-The FasTracks website is on schedule to be launched in
February 2007.



Citizens Advisory Committee-The next CAC work session is scheduled for
February 8th and will focus on TOD. The first quarterly CAC meeting is
March 8th.



Corridor/Program PI Coordination Meetings-The PI team is meeting quarterly
with all of the Corridor PI teams to address program-wide issues and ensure
consistent messaging.



Corridor Status-Liz Rao provided an update on DUS. For more specifics,
please refer to the FasTracks Monitoring Update dated February 6, 2007
that is located in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting Minutes
Notebook.
Director Chacon requested a tour for the Board of the planned area for the
light rail and commuter rail tracks. Liz Rao will put this tour together with
the developers once she is provided dates by the Board office.
Director Chacon inquired about access to historic funds. Liz Rao indicated
RTD is looking at that now.
For additional information on the other corridors, please refer to the handout
on the FasTracks Status Update dated February 6, 2007 that is located in
the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting Minutes Notebook.

II.

Other Matters – Director Chacon shared the memento received for the RTD
participation in the Highlands Bridge project. Cal Marsella provided a historical
perspective of RTD’s initial involvement with this project.

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be March 6, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

IV.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the meeting at 5:45 p.m.

