Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on November 13, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 14, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
November 13, 2008 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair Barbara Yamrick, Noel Busck, Bill Elfenbein,
Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam,
Dave Ruchman, John Tayer
Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, William Christopher, Neill Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Ron
Dodsworth, David Genova, Gary Googins, Terry Howerter, Caitlin
Magee, Brian Matthews, Robert Merriman, Paula Perdue, Todd Nikkel,
Teresa Sedmak, Cal Shankster, John Tarbert, Scott Reed, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Bruce Behnke (Veolia), Caleb Buter, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Kevin
Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Tom Coogan (Route Match), Tim Quinn
(Route Match), Don Robinett (Route Match)

Call to Order:

I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:31 pm.

Presentation of Award - John Tarbert presented an award from Homeland Security to
the District for their support during the Democratic National Convention.

II. Recommended Action


Fare Adjustments for Special Services – Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager, Customer and Contracted Services introduced this item and
explained that this action is in keeping with the FTA’s charter regulations.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD’s
fare structure for Special Services (RockiesRide, BroncosRIde, BuffRide, CU/CSU
Football games at Invesco Field and Race for the Cure) and for all seniorRide

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 2 of 4
services be adjusted as indicated in Attachment A in order to be consistent with
the January 2009 fare structure and to remain in compliance with the Federal
Transit Administration regulations regarding the provision of charter services. It
is also recommended that all future Special Services fares be linked to the RTD
fare structure so that in all future fare changes, all Special Services fares will be
changed to reflect the comparable fixed route fares for similar services.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
forward this item to the November
18, 2008 Board Meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the
motion.

Vote On
Motion:

III.

The motion passed unanimously.

ADA – Route Match Update – Bruce Abel spoke to this item. A Route match update
was distributed to the Committee. Complaints have returned to the pre-transition level.
Call service is operating better than before implementation. Dispatch is matching preperformance implementation but the District would like to improve this. Productivity is
being sustained at 1.4 passengers per hour which is an improvement of 4.7%.
Tom Coogan and Don Robinett from RouteMatch gave a demonstration of the AVL
system that showed how the vehicles can be tracked, how long they stopped, and when
they arrived at their stops. The view from the dispatcher’s point of view was displayed
as well as the mobile data terminals themselves. Once this is implemented fleet wide,
dispatchers will have lots of information to help with productivity and performance.
Director Martinez asked about the type of complaints that are being received. Bruce
Abel said the majority of the complaints are regarding late vehicles. With the new
technology, dispatch will be able to tell precisely where the vehicle is. Director Martinez
also wanted to know if the District lost passengers during implementation. Mr. Abel
responded that the District is trying to find this data.
Cal Marsella asked the Route Match team if there was a way for the system to flag
dispatch if a trip is outside the window so that the District does not have to wait for a
complaint to come in from the passenger. The mobile data terminals will allow dispatch
to work more proactively then reactively.
Director Kemp commented that he was pleased with the increase in productivity.
There was a discussion about the tools and management information available using this
system.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 3 of 4
Director Yamrick had several questions regarding the Route Match system and
comparisons of ADA service from four years ago to present day. Bruce Abel said he
would write up a response to her questions.
IV.

Group 20 Evaluation Criteria – Bruce Abel spoke to the item. Staff is looking for the
Committee’s concurrence with the RFP evaluation criteria as listed in the memo that
was distributed in the Friday packet.
Mr. Abel mentioned that Director Chacon had asked about why there was no DBE/SBE
goal in the evaluative criteria. All contracts are reviewed by the DBE/SBE office and
they did not feel there were enough opportunities for DBE/SBE subcontracting for this
type of contract.
Director Ruchman wanted to know what other peer agencies do in terms of evaluative
criteria for these types of contracts.
Director McMullen had further questions on the DBE/SBE contracting and State
legislation and he wanted a response from staff.
Director Daly had a question about the evaluation criteria of 40% titled Understanding
Approach and Organization and the “Appropriateness of labor distribution among
activities.” Bruce Abel clarified that this is the business plan and covers assigning the
right number of drivers, mechanics, and supervisors.

V.

Update on VMS System on Southeast Light Rail – Rick Clarke gave this update. The
overall SCADA system is working very well and the only element that is not working is
the Public Address variable message signs (PAVMS). The ad hoc part of the system
that gives emergency information messages is working well. PAVMS was working well
through the summer in terms of getting the right train but the timing was not working
right. A full QA test was done in September 2008. The contractor passed the test and
a letter was sent to the contractor asking for some corrections at six stations. One was
the Louisiana/Pearl station where the system was consistently off and that has been
corrected. The other five stations are all downtown stations. The issue here is with the
timing of traffic lights that can delay the train. The District has asked the vendor to
change the software to just announce the train instead of announcing the train and time.
The system will not be turned on until everything is complete. The other part of the
VMS is the parking lot management. Rick Clarke felt that they were close to being
ready on this part of the system.
Director McMullen asked about alternating voices, one voice for trains going North and
one voice going for South. He also asked if the sign and voice were supposed to be in
synch and he hasn’t seen that yet. Rick Clarke said it is supposed to work that way and
if it is not working that way, it is a fault.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 4 of 4
Director Yamrick wanted to know if the District had paid any more money on this
system and Mr. Clarke responded that the District is still withholding $5 million on this
contract and has not spent any additional money.
VI.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VII.

Next Meeting Date - This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service
Committee will be December 9, 2008

VIII.

Adjournment - Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:09 p.m.

