2020-06-25
GMES-GMOC
PEGGY CATLIN: Although he's not a committee member. But John, if you see him during the call then
we can acknowledge that he's on.
JOHN MCKAY: Will do.
PEGGY CATLIN: It is 11:02 AM Mountain Daylight Time on Thursday, June 25. And I'd like to call the GM
Executive Search Committee meeting to order.
I'm hearing a buzz-- it almost sounds like a saw-- as feedback. If you guys would mute your phones until
you'd like to speak then we can reduce some of the interference.
One of the things that we really wanted to talk about is our executive search schedule. And I'll turn this
over to Gregg again in a few minutes. But you've all seen the executive search schedule that the Board
Office sent out. And it's fairly aggressive. And I know that we're trying our best to accommodate individual
committee members, but I'd like to go over it, if we could, briefly.
So as you know, the resumes and application materials are still open and we will be receiving those by
close of business on July 10. So then after the materials and resumes are reviewed and screened by
Gregg, then the materials will be available for review via the software that Gregg has discovered that's
very, very secure called HoGoDoc. And that should be available for all Board members, but specifically
committee members, to review starting July 19 at 5:00 PM. And then those reviews need to be completed
prior to our committee meeting for the applicant review on Wednesday, July 22 between 8:00 and 11:00.
The first round of interviews we hope to have between five and seven applicants. And those are
scheduled right now on August 5 and 6, both days between 8:00 and 11:30. Second round of interviews-we hope to have two to three finalists-- are scheduled right now August 19 and 20, 8:00 to noon.
Are there any questions about that schedule?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll give a minute for people to unmute if they have any question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I have a quick question for you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Is the expectation that if we are able to attend the first round
interviews that we should be able to attend the second round interviews as well?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So just as a reminder, though, this schedule is only for the Executive
Search Committee meetings. And we also have a role, a dual role, for the General Manager Oversight
Committee. So there may be some additional meetings that would be added in the near future.
I know that staff and everyone else are concerned with some of the additional workshops that we have
scheduled, study sessions and other meetings in the next couple months that this is going to be a pretty

packed schedule. And then we also have stakeholder and public engagement that we'll be talking about
in a moment with regard to the Executive Search Committee.
So we don't have a lot of wiggle room when it comes to the scheduling. And I know we're asking a lot of
Directors, but we're also really putting a burden on our staff that ordinarily they wouldn't have at this time
of year. They also have furloughs coming up. And with holiday schedules, it is kind of tight. So I would
ask that Directors be mindful of that.
[CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me.
So for the resume review process, Gregg is working to set up a secure document sharing platform that's
called HoGoDoc. And you all will be getting an email within the next week inviting you to download the
app from that website. And if you need any assistance, which I probably will, the Board Office will put in a
ticket with the IT Department and then Chuck will reach out to you directly.
So are there any questions about that?
Gregg can talk a little bit about the security of that, if you'd like. Or I know John had tested it out and was
not able to get around any of the firewalls or anything.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. I don't [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I was just going to say, no, I don't have any questions. I don't have any
questions about security. I'm good. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'd also like to remind you all that any of the comments in terms of the reviews need
to be worked through with your buddy so that we can streamline the process. If we're waiting for all 15
Directors to assemble comments, that could be a little bit unwieldy. So we're really relying on each of you
to reach out and provide the comments from your buddies into the process on that meeting on the 22nd.
So again, the resume and other application materials will be available starting at 5:00 on July 19. And
that's the Sunday prior to the resume review meeting. When we meet on Wednesday the 22nd to go over
the applicants, we hope to narrow the field down to five to a seven initial candidates that day.
I don't know if you all remember on the interim review process, there was a lot of discussion. So I hope
that you can be prepared, especially with input from your buddies, so that we can have a meaningful
discussion on the 22nd. So your conversations with those buddies need to take place from the 19th
through the 21st. And I would suggest that you might want to give them a heads up that this is coming.
So there was some discussion that in order to preserve the integrity of the process that we have the
discussion on the 22nd and that we don't have backchannel discussions among Board members prior to
that. I think it's more meaningful if we can all have the discussion as we sit down together on the 22nd. So
I'd ask you to find refrain from discussing any of this, other than with your buddy, if that's possible.
Before the interviews take place, Gregg will be providing a list of suggested questions. So again, these
are for the interviews in the first week of August. But he's going to be preparing suggested interview
questions. He's gotten all of the interview questions that we vetted prior to the interim search and using
that as a starting point. And then based on his experience, he got other questions that he will provide for
us.
So we'll have an opportunity to get additional feedback from the full Board with regard to those questions,
but wanted to make sure that we had plenty of time to vet that before this committee then approved the
condensed list of questions. And we'll probably do that input via email.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair--

PEGGY CATLIN: Moving on.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I'm so sorry. Shelley Cook. I missed part of that. Can you repeat about
the questions and the process for landing on the questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, Gregg's going to be providing a list of suggested interview questions. And that's
based on a compilation of the ones that we had previously discussed with the Board and then also other
questions that he has used in his previous search exercises. But then the full Board will be allowed to
give feedback for that. But then the committee members themselves will be asked individually to approve
a condensed list of questions.
So the committee will be doing that. And in order to expedite the process, so it's probably going to do that
via email as opposed to scheduling an additional meeting. You know, that's a little bit of a departure from
what we'd normally do. Are there any concerns about that?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair. It's Shelley again.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: You know, considering that we have special circumstances, are we only talking about
selecting from an array of questions that Mr. Moser might suggest, or can we also come up with some of
our own as a committee that maybe are more specific to our particular needs?
PEGGY CATLIN: My thought is that that's the opportunity to provide additional feedback.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not clear if-- are those questions already in a set that could be sent to us, or what
was the timeline on us seeing the questions? Menten, I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I-- thank you, Director Menten. Gregg, would you speak to that, what you think
would be the timeline for getting the questions? Again, these are for the first week in August. So we do
have some time to consider the list, the draft list of questions that Gregg provides and then provide input.
Gregg, would you like to-GREGG MOSER: Yeah, so I think-PEGGY CATLIN: --elaborate?
GREGG MOSER: Yes, thank you. I think that by all means, you can start to think about some questions
you'd like to ask or at least put out there for the full committee, the task force, to consider as interview
questions. So I think there's no reason you couldn't start looking at that and thinking about that right now.
If everyone's OK with it, my thought is, let's make sure everybody is comfortable and isn't overwhelmed
with the HoGo system. And I don't believe it's going to be an overwhelming process to understand it. But
let's just make sure we get through that part first so you're able to review the resumes and everything.
I think at the same time, like I said, you can start to think about the questions you might want to hear
asked. I will take the list of questions that were prepared during the Interim process, add some questions
myself, and then I'll send those around. My thought is maybe we do that after the July 4th holiday. That
still gives us at least a month's time, and probably three weeks worth of time.
And at that point, if you've been giving thoughts to questions, over the next two weeks, let's say, or week
and a half, however long it is till July 4th, you'll be ready to add those questions to that list. And then we
can circulate it around amongst the task force. And we'll have a meeting like this to discuss and go
through those questions and pick the ones that we feel are most appropriate for the first round. And then

if we haven't selected a question for the first round, we may want to include that as a question in the
second round.
So I think that there's an opportunity for various levels and discussion amongst questions and when we
include questions and things like that. Does that sound good to everyone?
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, thank you. This is Director Catlin. Excuse me. You know, Barbara and John, I
think it might be helpful if we just as a reminder send our list of questions out to Board members so that
they can be reminded of what we posed, what questions we posed in the first round, and get Directors
thinking about questions. Would that be helpful, Director Cook? Director Menten?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that sounds-NATALIE MENTEN: The more cushion we've got on everything for me would be great. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So can I just-- this is Barbara McManus. I just want to be clear. Are we just
sending that list out or are we sending the whole list including what Gregg Moser is proposing for review?
PEGGY CATLIN: What I was suggesting, and this is certainly up for discussion, I was suggesting that we
just send out the list of questions that we had compiled for the Interim search and let Board members
know, and Committee members know, that Gregg is going to incorporate some of these but also augment
that list with questions that he has used based on his executive search exercises in the past.
So it's by no means inclusive. It's just a reminder to Board members of what we had discussed previously
for the Interim General Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Thank you for clarity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that work for other committee members?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you, Chair. OK. Thank you.
All right. Then for the first round of interviews that first week in August, we'll actually be using Microsoft
Teams as opposed to the HoGo software that we're using for resume reviews. And we anticipate that the
interviews will take up to 60 minutes for each candidate, followed by a few minutes between the
candidates.
And then following those interviews, which, again, we said five to seven candidates, our committee will
then reconvene in Executive Session to select two to three finalists. And then once those individuals are
selected, we'll need to announce those that day pursuant to our state statute. Remember, we have that
state statute.
And then from that point on, the Board cannot make an offer to a selected candidate for 14 days. So it's
within that. But then we have to do a second round of interviews. And we've scheduled enough time to
actually have three 90-minute interviews with enough time to remain that can reconvene to determine the
GM candidate on the second day, which would be August 20. Then, after that, the full Board would be
able to vote on the selection during a special Board meeting held on August 25.
So at this point, without knowing whether states will be required to quarantine travelers, I'd like to suggest
that we remain flexible and fluid and refrain from deciding on the format for the finalist interviews, whether
it be in-person or via video conference.
My preference is that these interviews, both the preliminary and the final interviews, be held via video
rather than simply by phone. Because in lieu of being able to meet face to face, we can at least get some

sense of body language and communication style and that sort of thing via video. So I don't know if any of
you all have thoughts on that, but that's my personal preference.
So does anybody have any thoughts about that? It seems to me if they don't have the technology in place
to communicate via video, we may not want to consider them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger. I have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would agree with that. Yes, let's definitely do it by video. And then all of those
interviews are open to all the Board. Is that right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, but only the committee will vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: If people want to-- the Board members want to dial in, they can.
I heard someone else join the call. Is that you, Director Tisdale?
GREGG MOSER: It may have been me, Gregg. I joined-DOUG TISDALE: I am on the call. And I appreciate-- and I'm actually on video. So Ms. McManus, Mr.
Ballard, and Director Guissinger knew I was here. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Gregg Moser also joined via video.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'm sorry. I'm not able to join via video. I will be able to by the time we do these
interviews.
But thanks for joining us, Director Tisdale. Appreciate it.
So one of the things, just a word of caution, and I know you all are aware of this, but we need to refrain
from asking questions of a personal nature and instead focus on the candidate's qualifications and ability
to perform the job. So for example, we can't really ask questions about whether that person would be
comfortable relocating or whether their family life would be impacted by taking the position or anything
like that. I think that will be something subject to follow-up discussions.
So now I think I'm done with my fairly lengthy description of the process. Are there any questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: In regards to the referral-- reference checks, I'm sorry, reference checks-- I
participated with-- all of a sudden escaping my brain-- RTD's Roger Vesely. I participated in those
reference checks. And I found it to be of extreme benefit to hear that versus having a written document.
And I'm wondering, Gregg, if you could comment on what, where in the process do you do those
reference checks and whether we would have the option to have a couple of the Committee, let's say two
of the Committee members of this GMES participate in that.
Just when I did it with Roger, I didn't do anything but just sit and listen. I didn't participate in asking
questions. But just hearing that firsthand was, I just can't even describe how much benefit that was. So
I'm wondering about your response and comments on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. That's a good question.
GREGG MOSER: I certainly have no issue with that. If the Committee decides that that's what they'd like
and decides on Directors that they'd like included in that process, we can certainly do that. I think that for
the sake of your time and the sake of the candidate's or even the reference's time, maybe we schedule
those as part of our finalists' background check diligence pieces to include those. I mean, I've been doing

references and cursory checks on people, Google searches and things like that, as I've been going
through my conversations.
But as a formal part of the process, why don't we, if that's what the committee and the task force would
like, include that as part of that final process, as we're going through in preparing for those final
interviews?
NATALIE MENTEN: And Menten. I'll come back. And I do know it was a challenge with the schedule.
We're going to be-- it's one extra step. In every single one of the cases, we're going to be calling you at
about 11:30. And we're going to call you at noon. And I'll leave it up to the rest of the Committee members
whether they would find interest in this. I think for scheduling, just two of the members, committee
members, would be the easiest way to do it, and even less, maybe one.
That's my thoughts coming away from the Interim process and what we worked out there. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. And I had actually forgotten about that. If it's the desire of
the Committee to go ahead and allow for that, then I would ask Gregg Moser and our Board staff to
wedge that particular scheduling item into the overall schedule.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Happy to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I guess one of the things that I wanted to point out and have this discussion with John
McKay and Barbara, and that is that partly because of the state statute and the timeframe and also
because just the summer activity, a very, very robust stakeholder engagement effort is going to be
somewhat challenging.
And so we wanted to talk a little bit about some of the options. So I'm going to let Gregg talk about what
some of these options are for stakeholder input. And part of it is based on what we had, what the Board
had done in the previous search, not the Interim GM search but the previous permanent General
Manager search.
So Gregg, can you talk about that a little bit?
JEFF WALKER: Chair, this is-GREGG MOSER: Yeah, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. Did somebody wish to speak?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, Jeff Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Walker. Please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Before we move on, I just had a question, comment, curiosity about other
interviews that Mr. Moser has done. I am wondering if there's anything that you've seen or put out
regarding the background or the setting in which the candidate is located, so to cut down on distractions,
glare, et cetera. Have you sent anything like that? [AUDIO OUT] point blank wall or white wall or gray wall
or something like [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, Director Walker, but you were breaking up so I didn't hear the last part of the
question.
JEFF WALKER: I am wondering if there have been any parameters or suggestions about backgrounds
that the candidates, or the settings of the candidates, in a few weeks, are in to cut down on distractions,
glare, noise, et cetera, that we could make note, or should make note, or just leave it up to them and see
what they come up with.
GREGG MOSER: I can certainly suggest to people to make sure that the background is appropriate. I
tend to feel at this level that it's better to not coach people. Because they should, if they're applying for a

CEO job, know what's appropriate or not appropriate. And candidly, you're not going to able to coach
them every time they get into a public meeting for every situation.
So to the extent that someone-- I'll give you an example. I had a Teams interview of a candidate a few
months ago. And the candidate sat and his dogs were barking all over the house in the background and
things like that. And those things happen. But in the middle of a professional interview and whatnot, you
would hope that you'd find a place that's quiet and not distracting.
So if that's, again, what the task force would like me to do, I'm happy to prep the candidates. My
recommendation is let's see how they performed and what they do. Because at the end of the day, they're
going to be the face of the organization and they're going to have to put up that-- they're going to have to
act in a professional environment all the time for you.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So it'll be up to them to present that image. And those that perform well in that
aspect will be the ones that probably get the benefit from it. OK. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, to that point, I think that would be a good example of that person's judgment,
how they perform. So I would prefer not to give them guidelines. Other thoughts?
GREGG MOSER: It's the same [AUDIO OUT] answer questions. If they take 25 minutes to answer one
question, it reflects on their ability to talk succinctly and get their point across.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right. Continue, Gregg, with some of the options.
GREGG MOSER: Yes. So there are a number of options. I've been working with Barbara and John and
Director Catlin and the Chair on a couple of different ideas.
And I am assuming, and given what's going on with COVID and everything, that we're not going to have a
robust in-person stakeholder engagement process like was done during the last CEO hiring. Of course, if
something changes and we're able to do that, then we would certainly look into that. But at this point, it
doesn't look likely that that's going to be the option.
So I think there are a couple of different options. And certainly, if there are questions or comments or
additional suggestions, we can look into those sorts of things. But at this point, some of the things we're
thinking about is asking a group of key stakeholders to conduct an interview of candidates and having a
set of questions for those key stakeholders to ask of those candidates.
We can record that interview of the candidates. This is, by the way, the final candidates. These are the
ones that are publicly made available. The names and the resumes and the cover letters are made
available. This is not the longer list of candidates. So this is our short list of two or three finalists.
They would interview those candidates, ask those questions. There was some discussion about how we
come up with the questions for that. We can [AUDIO OUT] stakeholders to develop some of those
questions so that we can get some input from the community as to what questions are asked.
We would record those interviews and make those interviews available for the public to review and to
comment on. We could also include, as part of this process, a Survey Monkey. And Barbara and John
and I were talking about sort of logistics and timing of all of that. But we can put a Survey Monkey out
there also with some questions and opportunity to get some feedback and comments and get that from
the broader public.
My thought is about these interviews that are publicly made available, we record those, we put them on
the RTD website. And then you have a communication format that you communicate with your
stakeholders. We make it known to everybody that these videos are available to go on there and watch.

We include that Survey Monkey for stakeholders to be able to [AUDIO OUT] and provide feedback
through that direct outlet.
And [AUDIO OUT] the best way to make it available. People can watch these at their own time. It's not
something-- we talked about the idea of maybe making it available on a news channel or something like
that. One concern I have is that someone could say, well, I wasn't available at that time and I missed it
and I wasn't able to participate. So this way, if they are awake at 2 o'clock in the morning and they want to
watch these videos and they want to comment on them at that hour, they can do.
So I think we're trying to think of a way that's inclusive and open and broad as possible and able to get as
much feedback as possible.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions about that, Gregg? I thought I heard a beep. Did somebody
join the call or perhaps somebody dropped off? OK. Perhaps it was just somebody's computer chiming.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a-- this is Guissinger. I just have a quick question. And I don't know if we
even want to do this. But the Accountability Committee will have started. And I was thinking of this
because the mayor of Louisville yesterday told me how much she appreciated having you call her, Gregg,
and talk to her about her interests. There are a lot of people that are really interested in transportation and
in RTD.
Is it possible for some of those people to do something besides just listening to the interview, committee
interview the person, or something along that line, or have a chance to meet the finalists or anything? And
again, I don't know that we want to. I'm just throwing it out there to the committee and to you, Gregg.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, we talked about that yesterday.
Would you like to address that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. You know what, I was thinking about doing an across the board,
anyone could see what was happening in terms of interviews and stuff. And Director Catlin, please
correct me if I'm wrong, but in thinking about this, I guess for me, the whole idea was just like in the
Interim of being open and transparent to the entire community, being able to do input on all of these
things.
I think it's going to be really cumbersome with the COVID and the projection that there may be a second
round of COVID. And maybe we could do some Zoom stuff. So we're looking at everything from meetings
to Zoom to all of those component, YouTube, so that everybody has the chance to do it. But in terms of
meeting specifically with different groups, I'm just worried we're going to miss some and then it might
upset some folks.
So I have to tell you, I really like the idea of what we did with the Interim Manager of releasing cover
letters and resumes for people to review and then do maybe a Survey Monkey in response. No added
comments, but just a basic Survey Monkey to see what they think of the person, and then adding on that
the ability for them to see these people on a variety of social platforms I think would open our ability to be
transparent and inclusive.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera. I think what we were talking about earlier, and this might be
getting a little muddy, but we had talked about having some key stakeholders, after we conduct our
interviews, how some key stakeholders interact via Zoom or other platform, that could ask some
questions that would be videoed. And when we talked about the Accountability Committee, we talked
about waiting until they named their Chair and then having the Chair of that Accountability Committee
participate in this stakeholder process.

Is that what you recall, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And you know what, Director Catlin, I do too. It's been a long week. So
sorry.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. So it's my recollection that based on some of the folks
on our initial list to Gregg that he has reached out to one-on-one, based on who he has heard back from
and had conversations with, Gregg would put together a list of those folks. And then we could make a
decision going forward of those folks, which would be the stakeholders from that group that we would
move forward with on a one-on-one with those candidates.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. Well, or as a group and in a Zoom conference call. But we would need to make
sure that it would be a closed meeting and proctored so that-- Gregg actually cited a case in LA where
they had a Facebook Live event such as this, and there were some, I guess, mischief makers who
accessed the meeting and it became a little bit unruly.
So we're hoping to keep the stakeholders that we've already done some work with and then select some
of them for, I wouldn't call it an interview panel, but just kind of a question and answer period. Some of the
questions would be predetermined and then others could be follow-up questions. That would then be
taped and made available to the general public via these other channels that we talked about. Is that
right, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: That's correct. Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a good way to go. I guess I would say that the Accountability
Committee could ask to be a part of that. And we promised open transparency. So we'll see.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. And at the very least, when the Chair is named, we need to discuss that with
the Chair of that Accountability Committee to see how they would like to be engaged.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That makes sense.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Any other comments? Director Lewis, I know you have to get off at 1:00. And so I
wanted to give you the opportunity to maybe ask questions or provide input before we run out of time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah, I do have to hop off at noon. I just had a question,
and I don't know if I was correctly understanding what role this-- this group of folks who would have
access to the candidates, I don't think I was understanding exactly what is being proposed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you want to take a stab at that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I think the thought process is that we come up with a series of questions that this
group of stakeholders-- so if you remember, there was about 35 people, give or take the numbers, about
35 people that I was asked to reach out to. And there was a list of about a dozen that I made personal
phone calls to. Many of them called me back. Not all of them, but many of them called me back and
returned my call.
And then there was another, say, after that, about 20, 25 or so that I sent an email to individually,
introducing myself and asking if they had time available to chat. And many of them took me up on that
opportunity. And some of them I'm still scheduling time with, even as late at next week to talk to.
So I think our thought process was to go back to that list and reflect on that and pick a group out of that
list that could meet and engage with these stakeholders. It looks like it's going to be possibly video and

not in person. But we we're going to table that discussion for right now until we get a little bit closer and
have a better understanding of what sort of restrictions are in place in terms of travel and whatnot.
I think a proposal that was just suggested was maybe we include some members of this Oversight
Committee. So I think that that's on the table as well. And then we come up with a series of questions.
And something that's open ended on that part right now is whether this task force or the broader Board
comes up with those questions or we ask for some public engagement of what we would want to hear
from candidates.
And we prepare a series of questions. Let's say it's six questions-- I'm making this up-- we ask six
questions of those candidates by that stakeholder group that we've assembled. We record those interview
questions, the questions asked and the responses. We make that available publicly. And my suggestion
was to put it on RTD's website. We send out a notification, along with a Survey Monkey, to the broader
stakeholders, all the stakeholders of RTD. And we ask them to watch those videos and provide feedback
and comments to us by a specified period of time and date.
RTD staff and myself would compile all of that feedback, which I understand could be extensive, because
we got a lot of input during the Interim search. Share that with the full Board as one of the tools we have
in our tool box, so to speak, to make a decision on which candidate we'd like to move forward with as the
top candidate as a CEO.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That makes sense. I guess my question is, how would we select the folks who
might be on that committee in a way that feels like it's representative of our riders and our patrons as well
as that it's not an exclusive committee that's invite only?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think it would be-- we have a list of the stakeholders. This is Director Catlin.
Can I back up a little bit and not answer just now. And Director Menten and Director Walker might want to
chime in on this. When we did our previous permanent General Manager, or CEO search, there were
some extensive outreach meetings with stakeholders. And they took place in a hotel and there was
opportunity to have one-on-one engagement with different groups of stakeholders, whether it was the
business community or elected officials or whatever. And since I wasn't there I don't know. I'm just
recalling what I've heard. And there was that opportunity for engagement.
We don't have that opportunity with the COVID situation. So this is a surrogate for that type of extensive
outreach to select some of our community stakeholders and have them participate on this panel, where it
would be videotaped and then made available to the broader community.
Some of the-- Gregg could chime in-- but some of the stakeholders to whom he reached out are the
governor's office, many of the mayors in the District, and different Chambers of Commerce and other-- he
went from the list that we provided him.
Gregg, do you want to elaborate on that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I think I reached out to the governor's office, several of the mayors, like you said,
COG, Chamber. I want to say there were other groups. I know I spoke to someone that represented-- and
I apologize, I don't remember the name of the organization-- there was someone from an organization
that represents or advocates on behalf of the blind community.
So there were a number of different organizations and stakeholders I talked to. I talked to a couple of-there was a Council member, I believe, up in Boulder I spoke to. I'm trying to think who else was on that
list. But there were a number of them. And that is representative of the group that I think we were looking
to select from.

PEGGY CATLIN: But I would suggest, Director Lewis, if you have some other folks that you want Gregg
to reach out to for input and perhaps participation on that panel, that you email him with suggestions to
make sure that we are inclusive.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Absolutely. And I don't recall if other Board members were asked to provide
names to that list outside of this group. And so just wanted to make sure that it was representative and
that it does feel transparent and it doesn't feel exclusive. But I'm happy to provide those to Gregg.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did you have any other questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think just broadly, stakeholder engagement. I know it's in the latter half of this
discussion. So I might just catch up with you later on this afternoon.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly.
GREGG MOSER: Director Lewis, this is Gregg. I do remember asking for input and feedback as to folks
that you'd like to include in the stakeholder outreach list. So we're not at a point in the process where that
can't be modified or added to. So if there is someone that you specifically-- or not just you, but anybody,
any of the Directors would like me to reach out to that comes to mind, please feel free to reach out to me.
Email me or share it with Barbara and her staff and they can get it to me as well to make sure I have
contact information and I reach out to those stakeholders.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Gregg. I appreciate that.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: And John and Barbara, we had prepared a-- there was a pretty extensive list that was
prepared. So we can share that with you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have access to it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I don't know if somebody else dropped off or got on the call. Did someone else join
our call?
OK. I'm going to go through the list of Directors that I know were on the call to see if they have any
comments. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I really appreciate this. I think that the schedule that we have is pretty
aggressive. But I think that it's doable. And I really appreciate all the work that's been done. And I have to
say, I'm so grateful that my buddy is on the phone and listening to all of this stuff. So Director Folska,
thanks for being there. But no, I don't have anything else. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Are we still on the outreach portion or are we in other matters on the
agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: We're still on the outreach portion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. The one question I had was we had talked about the stakeholders providing input
and then I think we then massaged those or came back with a set of questions that would be theirs to ask
of the applicants. And bearing in mind that a lot of these people are themselves CEOs or representatives
of the mayors or themselves elected and they have a particular perch for seeing us, it just seems like they
should have the largest role in determining questions. I just wanted to not make it so that they would be
provided questions that they wouldn't necessarily have come up with. So anyway, just making that
comment.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't have any real deep questions. We'll look forward to a little more detail as to
the scope of what the public outreach and the stakeholder groups would mean. I'm just not quite clear on
that was suggestion to have a meeting here, a meeting there, and a little concern that we may get
scattered on that. But definitely appreciate that it's somewhere in there will be opportunity for those
outside of what we call the stakeholders because I count the stakeholder as top to bottom. And the
concern that we get a public [CHIME] available to suggest questions. So I'm going both directions on that.
So in summary, I was just talking out loud there. I'm good. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, regarding stakeholders, I think AT the last go round for our permanent GM, I
don't remember us opening the doors to everyone in the community. Because there are three million
people that live in the District, give or take.
But I think this opportunity, or I think this go around with the video and having it uploaded to the website, I
think it provides more of an opportunity for most people, or more people, at least, to see the candidates
than what was available last time. Hopefully, the representatives, the elected reps, like us, and mayors,
city council members, et cetera, are in touch with their constituents so that even if the individual bus rider
or train rider doesn't have that opportunity for the in-person face-to-face or to ask a specific question,
hopefully those elect reps are in touch enough to know what their constituents want and those questions
can get forward on to the candidates.
I hope that made sense. But that's all I got. Thanks
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Now to Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Catlin. I want to first thank you, Peggy, and Gregg, and all of the
committee members and our Board staff for this enormous job that you're doing, in particular under all of
these extenuating circumstances and conditions.
And what this tells me is that among the tragedies and the challenges evoked by the pandemic, I would
say that it also has shown us that when push comes to shove, we can all imagine the impossible
possible. And the result of that is that we have an opportunity to give more access and participation to all
of our constituents with regard to the recommendation by Gregg for the outreach and the public outreach
that I'm really excited about it. And I want to thank you all very much for your work.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Folska. Yeah, we are, as Chair Rivera-Malpiede says, we're in
uncharted waters. So I appreciate the creativity and the input from Directors.
And finally, Director Tisdale, do you have any comments?
DOUG TISDALE: I would just like to second the comments of Director Folska. And I appreciate the fact
that I have been kept informed by my buddy on the committee, Director Walker. And I appreciate and
applaud the work of all of you. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. So we have a lot of stuff to do in that two-week period, per
statute, for this outreach and other things. And I'd kind of like to throw this back to Gregg to see what-and maybe he needs to give it some thought-- but we probably need to temper all this with some reality
and see what can be accomplished.

So Gregg, you don't need to answer it right now, unless you have some thoughts, but if you want to kind
of get back to us about a realistic plan for that two-week period.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. That's something that Barbara, John, and I were just talking about yesterday.
And we're going to actually put down on paper, I think, an idea of how we can logistically make all of
these pieces work in an appropriate time. Because you know, the other balance here, and we were
talking about this yesterday, was that if we have three candidates, or even two, for that matter, only one is
getting this job.
So all three of them, for that matter, are hopefully gainfully employed elsewhere and are going to be
sitting on pins and needles waiting. And everybody in the world will, so to speak, know that this is going
on, and people around them in their current organizations and people around your community. So it puts
everybody in this uncertain territory for a period of time. And we don't want people just sitting out there for
three, four, five weeks when we're trying to work through our process simply.
So we want to make it an inclusive process and also a tight process for those reasons.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Gregg, you know, we had a conference call with Barbara and John earlier
this week. And you went through some of the statistics. And I briefly informed the whole Board at our
Board meeting on Tuesday as to what those were. But perhaps you could give a little bit of a report on the
number of applicants and whether they were unsolicited or those to whom you reached out and that kind
of thing. If you could kind of remind us of where we are with that.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. And I don't have the numbers right in front of me. But if I remember correctly, we
were somewhere, unsolicited applications were around the 20 to 25 range, give or take. And I read
through all of those. Some of those I don't believe meet our minimum qualifications for the job. Some of
them looked interesting and I reached out to.
Some of them are, as I reached out and spoke to them, they're not working right now. So we started to
talk about what are the reasons they're not in their most recent position, things like that. So I've been
doing my vetting of those candidates. And I've also, as I mentioned to you-- and by the way, about, I'd say
about a half a dozen of those came directly through the RTD website, meaning someone went to RTD's
website, saw the position description.
We created a special email address that could be emailed to me through that website and so I can track
which ones come through the website or other resources. So about a half a dozen or so came from that
avenue, and then other 20 or so came through the other advertising we did. And that was all on that
budgeted list we went through early on as to where we were going to advertise this position.
And then I'd been doing my own direct outreach and networking. So through the stakeholders that you
asked me to reach out to, through my own research and database and whether I have relationships with
folks in the past or I've made cold calls to individuals that I've never spoken to in the past that I felt had
the background and experience to support the type of executive you're looking for, I did my outreach. And
I think I've got about, I would say approximately about 15 people I'm talking to from that side, that I'm
vetting through and making a determination whether or not they're the right candidate.
And I'll say that I think we've got pretty good diversity in the pool of candidates, both in terms of race,
gender, ethnicity, those sorts of backgrounds, but also professional experience. So we've got some
people that are transit candidates. And we've got people outside of transit to consider as well, whether
they're in water, wastewater industries, airports, aviation, aerospace, or banking, finance, those types of
backgrounds also.

So I think that I am hopeful that we'll have a really representative and diverse slate of candidates to have
a healthy discussion. And that, I truly believe, that helps us better reflect on the job description and the
key attributes you're looking at and helps us be able to have a healthy discussion and debate as to what
the right direction to go in is and to be able to narrow down as to who might be the best candidate
ultimately.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Gregg. Are there any other discussions about the outreach program?
So now I'll move on to other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss? I'll ask the Board members,
and then I do have one.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, thank you. So appreciated the sort of thumbnail sketch that Gregg gave us of the
response so far. I wonder if it wouldn't be possible for you and Vice Chair Guissinger to talk with him so
as to get sort of a, I don't know, a more detailed sense of the response we're getting, partly just so we can
adjust, if we need to, our own help or advertising efforts to get the word out.
So just wanted to ask you if that's possible. I'd like that. I'd like that if the two of you could work with
Gregg to get a fuller sense of the response he's getting, the comments he's getting, and where we maybe
need to redouble our efforts.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I mean, just do kind of a course check to see if we need a mid course correction.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Well, let me know what you and Director Guissinger, if you think that would be
beneficial. I was just thinking from my standpoint, I'd like the fact of knowing that you all were doing that
and getting a better sense for where we are.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was actually thinking something along the same lines, that before we reach the
point where everybody sees it all, it'd be nice to sort of have, I assume you'd appreciate a second opinion
or some feedback, to the extent we can do that, Gregg. So I think it's a good idea.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I actually think it's a good idea as well. And Dr.
Guissinger, you and I are going to have a conversation, a follow-up conversation. So maybe we can talk
about that as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Other Directors?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I'm wondering if Mr. Moser can give us an idea of what kind of comments he's hearing
about the agency from the people he's talking to. And I guess the steps that we've taken as far as COVID
or dealing with the budgets. I'm assuming that they've put some research into that on what we're doing.
And I'm just wondering what they're thinking.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, absolutely. I think I can tackle that question from two lenses. One is your
stakeholder lens and the other one is what I'm hearing from candidates, if that's what you're looking for,
Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Sure.

GREGG MOSER: So if I talk from a stakeholder perspective, and I'm summarizing, that I think that, I think
general theme of what I'm hearing is that public confidence in the RTD is at a low, that there's a bit of a
trust issue, perhaps, in terms of transparency and communication, and that folks in-- and these are
general comments I've heard-- that folks are looking for more engagement, more participation, more
outside-the-box type thinking.
I think that I've heard that the word no is used far too often, that people feel the word no is used far too
often, and that they're-- obviously I think folks recognize that with such a large audience of participation in
the community and the breadth to which RTD serves that it's hard to do everything for everyone, but that
perhaps there's some win-wins that can be achieved and some better ways to do things.
I think that I certainly heard various comments about the unresolved pieces of FasTracks. And there's
difference of opinions on how those could be funded. And I've heard comments about local bus services
or even regional bus services being cut to support some of the rail needs and the appropriateness of
doing that or not.
But I've heard comments that there are some folks-- and I'm guessing none of this comes as a surprise-but some folks, as part of the Reimagine RTD effort, would like to see or at least have discussions about
whether this 6,000-mile service territory, as it's been described to me, is the appropriate service territory
for RTD, and if there's a better way of doing things.
And people have shared with me that the bond initiatives or the bond requirements, perhaps there's, with
interest rates lows and things like that, that there's an opportunity to reexamine that from a financial
standpoint and maybe even go back out and refinance those bonds. And that maybe there's some tough
decisions that need to be made as a broader region across the board.
And so that's sort of what I would call maybe the downside of things. I've heard that, on the flip side, RTD
provides very good service and that you've got a lot of really competent people in the organization, and
particularly on the front lines, that work really, really hard to deliver service and that there's an
appreciation for the hard work that goes in, that these are not easy things to solve and if they were easy
things to solve that they would have been resolved already.
And I think that even the people who have shared those thoughts with me recognize that RTD is-- that
some of these things are bigger than just RTD, that these are not reflections on the employees or the
Directors individually, but these are bigger, broader conversations that need to happen across the region
or across the state even.
So those were the kind of comments I've heard, and that this is perhaps a time of reflection that maybe
the circumstances of what's going on across the broader financial markets and employment markets and
even with COVID and things, this is a time, actually a good time to sort of do the Reimagine RTD
because of the fact that sales taxes are going to be down. And unemployment is higher now than it has
been in the past. So the issues about hiring drivers and things like that, maybe these are the times to
actually tackle some of these issues and have these tough conversations, given the fact that there are
these changes that we didn't anticipate right now.
As I've talked to candidates, I think that there is a concern from candidates about the budget, that I have
had several candidates that told me they watched your last Board meeting and that having such a budget
shortfall is a big thing, that that's not insignificant, and that that's going to require some tough decisions to
be made.

And so one candidate, for example, said to me, look, I consider myself to be a very innovative person,
and as I've talked and done my diligence, whether it's local to the community or even at the national level,
people are saying to me that-- and these are people they're talking to that are outside of RTD, outside of
the Board or outside of staff and things like that-- that the view of RTD is going to be a hunker down and
sort of try to figure all of this out over the next couple years. And innovation, creativity, and doing new
things is not going to be necessarily the approach, it's going to be just how do we continue to survive and
operate as an organization.
You know, my response to that is that that kind of environment still creates creativity, right. There's
opportunities for public-private partnerships. There's opportunities to possibly engage foundational
communities and things like that. So try to look for new avenues of revenue and new streams of revenue.
And so it really depends on what sort of innovation you're looking at in terms of creativity about the future.
But there's a number of candidates that see a great challenge and a great opportunity here, that they
recognize that RTD provides a critical service for the community that is going to sustain and continue
throughout this no matter what happens. And so that's the attraction for them is how do we even navigate
through these challenges, these unforeseen financial challenges or COVID and things like that, to be able
to provide a great service.
And so that's the kind of conversations and feedback I've been getting from candidates that I've been
talking to about this. And [CHIME] talking to or having conversations not just about finance but about
customer service. How do we provide that high level customer service and really ensure that we're being
responsive to those people who are riding the system and use the system or rely on the system for
development, real estate development, commercial development, whatever it is, their businesses and
those sorts of things.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, it does. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair-PEGGY CATLIN: I do have another matter-PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard. Could I follow up on what Gregg was just talking about?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please. Absolutely.
PAUL BALLARD: While we've been on this call, we have forwarded to all members of the Board
communications from the Leeds School saying that their financial projections are off significantly. They've
provided revised numbers. And they could be off as much as $140 or 50 million. We don't understand
where it came from. We've asked them for explanation. We're getting them on the phone.
I don't have any answers. But that huge financial shortfall that they were projecting has been cut in half at
least. So I wish I had answers. It's good news. But it belies a serious problem in how they are doing their
work. And it brings into question the [AUDIO OUT] work that they're doing.
I wish I could answer questions right now. We're going to push them. And I assume the Board will want to
push them as to how this happened. But we've spent hundreds and hundreds of hours developing
strategies for the Board based on their projection. And they basically just said, never mind, we were off.
So it's wonderful news but it's bad news in that we've done all this work and everybody's upset, and we
have all these media reports that Gregg is having to deal with. And now it's not accurate.

So that's why I say it's good news and it's bad news. We're working on it. They don't have any good
answers at this point, other than it's their gut feeling. So I'm just being honest with what just came in. So
stay tuned. The financial challenge just lessened significantly. So I wanted to share that with us. Just
came in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. That certainly will be a topic of discussion at our next Board
meeting or Committee meeting. And I would say that that's probably not the end of the story as the
pendulum swings.
I do have another matter, unless somebody else has something else they'd like to say with regard to the
GM Executive Search schedule.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, just to follow up on where the pendulum swings, yes. While Leeds may have
been way off on its forecasts, and I did see the email in the middle of our meeting, and we've got to figure
that out, we have got some deep rooted, deep, deep rooted budget problems at RTD. And the Leeds
forecast is one thing. But I just wanted to share that, because Gregg, Mr. Moser, you haven't been
through all of our Board meetings over the last few years and know that we've got a problem that goes
year to year to year to year to year.
But we're not out of the woods, I guess, would be the answer. So that's my only comment. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, if I'll add just have one brief follow up to Director
Menten. I don't want the Board to think that in any way that we're backing off of the task force's work.
That's still important that they take a hard look at the agency, how we spend our money, how we look at
our mission, how we're staffed. All that work we intend to continue and share the results and ask for the
Board's participation in exactly how we approach that.
But as always, we want to share with you as soon as we know a significant change that just came in. So I
wanted to add that in and just follow up on Director Menten's comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. And as I said, this will probably be a discussion with the full Board. And
just in keeping with the agenda that we have in front of us, I've been reminded that our Chief Legal
Counsel is concerned that we tend to have substantive discussions under Other Matters and that we
need to try and keep the agenda that we have here. So not to be scolding.
So today's agenda, with that in mind, today's agenda we discussed Executive Search Committee. This
Committee has two roles. We also have the General Manager Oversight Committee role. And so I'm
working with Barbara and John to have an agenda and a next meeting for the Oversight Committee, and
that's to really look at the performance review of Mr. Ballard and an examination of the goals and the
evaluation. And given all these other meetings, we're going to have to try and wedge some of those
meeting in with these other meeting.
To that end, we'd like to have a GMOC meeting possibly this coming Tuesday, on June 30, prior to the
Finance workshop that's scheduled at 3:00. The Chair and I had a discussion yesterday with Mr. Ballard,
and we want to streamline this process, make it a little simpler than the processes we've done in the past,
given Mr. Ballard's unique circumstances of being an Interim GM. So we will be discussing that at the
meeting and just wanted to see if anybody has a conflict with that tentatively 2:00 meeting on Tuesday.
Let me poll the committee members. I'll ask Director Lewis later. But Chair Rivera-Malpiede, are you
available?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, that's fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: She just sent me a text. Her computer died. Can you-- do you want me to send her a
text back and say are you available?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, since I'm following up with her, she asked to speak, I'll just ask her then. But thank
you for that offer. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. Let me make clear. This Tuesday at 10 AM?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, at 2:00.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, 2:00. Yes. Yes, that's fine. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I am open.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think we'll set that meeting then, Barbara and John. And Barbara, they need to
get the agenda out this afternoon. So we'll be having a discussion about that.
So is there any other matter to come before the Board? Hearing none, this meeting will be adjourned as
of 12:11 PM Mountain Daylight Time. And I thank you all for your participation.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Bye, everyone.

