1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District O
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

SPECIAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 5, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. He asked everyone to stand and join
him in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.

II.

Roll Call
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson

Title
Director, District L

Status
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District C
Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:19 PM
5:27 PM
4:54 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:28 PM
5:25 PM
5:27 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:24 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:27 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:27 PM

Paula Perdue called roll. There were fifteen (15) members present at roll call.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Mace Pemberton, Scott

Reed, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Susan
Wood
Others Present:

III.

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Sherman Hamilton, Angie Malpiede,
Sheryl Machado, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

Election of 2016 Board Officers
Chair Sisk noted that as stated in the Board Bylaws, in the first official meeting of the year
the Board will elect the officers of Chair, 1st Vice-Chair, 2nd Vice-Chair, Secretary and
Treasurer. He reminded the Board that Paula Perdue has provided each Director with a
copy of the process that will be followed in the nomination and election of officers per the
Bylaws and Robert’s Parliamentary procedures. He indicated that the process would begin
with the Chair and move down from there. Chair Sisk explained that Board members
making the nominations and the seconders would have three minutes to speak on behalf
of their candidate. He said once there were no further nominations he would close the
nominations and call for a vote by secret ballot. He will appoint two members of the
Board who are not running for the position, along with Marla Lien, General Counsel, to
count to votes. He stated that if no candidate has eight affirmative votes the process will
be repeated.
Chair Sisk asked if there were any objections to the process. Hearing none he asked for a
nomination for the Chair of the Board.
Motion for
Chair:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to nominate Director
Tom Tobiassen for the position of Chair of the Board. She
stated that Director Tobiassen has done a wonderful job this
past year as 1st Vice-Chair and as Treasurer before that. She
believes he will continue to be an asset as a member of the
Executive Committee
Director Solano Seconded the motion.

Vote on
Nomination:

Hearing no other nominations, Chair Sisk asked for a voice
vote in favor of Director Tobiassen. The voice vote passed
unanimously. Chair Sisk announced Director Tobiassen as the
Chair for 2016.

Motion for
1st Vice-Chair:

Director Lasater made the motion to nominate Director Natalie
Menten for the position of 1st Vice-Chair of the Board.
Director Deadwyler Seconded the motion.
Chair Sisk made the motion to nominate Director Larry Hoy as
1st Vice-Chair of the Board. He recognized how hard Director
Hoy works for his District as well as the entirety of RTD. He
feels Director Hoy brings a wealth of knowledge to the
Executive Committee and will serve RTD very well.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
2nd Vice-Chair:

Director Hoy was declared the 1st Vice-Chair with 10 votes in
favor and 5 votes for Director Menten.

Director Tobiassen made the motion to nominate Director
Barbara Deadwyler for the position of 2nd Vice-Chair. He
stated that Director Deadwyler has been a very passionate
advocate for RTD and our constituents. He acknowledged her
hard work and diligence as a member of the General Manager
Executive Search Committee. He said she puts in an
incredible amount of time and dedication to the Board.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
Secretary:

Hearing no other nominations, Chair Sisk asked for a voice
vote in favor of Director Deadwyler. The voice vote passed
unanimously. Chair Sisk announced Director Deadwyler as the
2nd Vice-Chair for 2016.

Director Hoy made the motion to nominate Director Jeff
Walker for the position of Secretary. He said that Director
Walker is a stellar individual who has done a fabulous job in
this position for the past year.

Chair Sisk seconded the motion recognizing all the attributes
that Director Walker brings to the position. He noted all the
effort Director Walker put in making the APTA Transit Board
Member and Board Support Seminar a success even though
Director Walker minimizes his contributions. He said he has a
great deal of respect for Director Walker.
Director Deadwyler made the motion to nominate Director Paul
Solano for the position of Secretary. She thinks he will be a
great asset to the Executive Committee.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.
Vote on
Nomination:

Motion for
Treasurer:

Director Solano was declared the Secretary with 8 votes in
favor and 7 votes for Director Walker.

Director Bagley made the motion to nominate Director Tina
Francone as Treasurer. He shared that he has gotten to know
Director Francone during her time on the Board, especially as
even though the Southwest Rail Extension is in his District it is
her line too. He acknowledged her efforts as a member of the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee and General Manager Executive Search Committee.
He also recognized her vast knowledge of RTD. He thinks she
would serve admirably as Treasurer.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
Nomination:

Hearing no other nominations, Chair Sisk asked for a voice
vote in favor of Director Francone. The voice vote passed
unanimously. Chair Sisk announced Director Francone as the
Treasurer for 2016.

New Board Officers for 2016:
Chair Tobiassen
1st Vice-Chair Hoy
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler
Secretary Solano

Treasurer Francone
Chair Sisk congratulated the new Executive Committee. He said that 2016 will be a great
year and their efforts will make it even better. He reminded everyone that Director
Tobiassen would make appointments for the Chair and Vice-Chair of the standing
committees. This will happen in due time but until it is complete the current Chairs and
Vice-Chairs will continue to run their meetings.
Director Archuleta thanked Chair Sisk for serving in 2015. He said he really appreciated all
of Chair Sisk’s work.

IV.

Action Items
Bank Account and Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to approve the bank account
signature authorization agreement with the newly approved
officer signatures.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Seeing no discussion, Chair Sisk asked for a voice vote in
favor of the motion. The motion PASSED unanimously via
voice vote.

Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice
The RTD Board of Directors designates the entry way of the RTD administrative office at
1600 Blake Street as its official location for posting of notices of all public meetings in
2016 as required by C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the maximum extent feasible,
notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s website.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve the selection
of the location for posting of the Board notice.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

V.

Seeing no discussion, Chair Sisk asked for a voice vote in
favor of the motion. The motion PASSED unanimously via
voice vote.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 5:55 p.m. Chair Sisk called for a five minute break prior to
starting the Government Relations Committee meeting.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

