Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 6, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on April 6, 2010 at
6:58 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen; Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede, Tobiassen and
Tayer
Directors Martinez and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lisa Alvarado, Jenny Barket, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Tina Jaquez, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Andy
Mutz, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Brian Starck, Liz Telford, Pauletta
Tonilas, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Brian Middleton, Bob Wilson, Sharon
Terranova (DRCOG)
****

Call to Order
I.

Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:58 p.m.

Recommended Actions:
 Contract Award to Aconex for Construction Management Software as a
Service – Rick Clarke introduced Lisa Alvarado, the District’s new FasTracks
Document Control Manager and Brian Starck, Document Control Manager.
This software is an electronic document control system specifically designed
for use in a construction environment. This system has been used around the
world. Dubai Metro and Tel Aviv light rail used this program. Very little IT
infrastructure is required for this software.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 2
It was a very competitive bid process and Aconex was chosen on cost and
technical capabilities.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a three-year contract in the amount of
$560,000, with four one-year options in the amount of $600,000 for a total
of $1,160,000 to Aconex for Construction Management Software as a
Service. Funding for this contract in 2010 is included in the 2010 Adopted
Budget, and future year funding will be appropriated on an annual basis.
Director Brohl asked if staff got any references from other companies that use
this system? Lisa Alvarado said that staff received references from Dubai,
Tel Aviv, and Jacobs. Director Brohl wanted to know how long these
systems have been in place. Ms. Alvarado responded that Dubai has had
Aconex for three years and she wasn’t sure on the other agencies but would
get that information to Director Brohl. What does the contract cover? The
cost of the contract is for overall use, maintenance and support. Where will
the data reside? Aconex has two servers that will store the data. One server
is in Virginia and one is in Australia and all the data will be captured
simultaneously.
Director Cohen wanted to know where the company is headquartered. Ms.
Alvarado said they have an office in Colorado but are headquartered in
California. Director Cohen said the Board members get questions about
contracts that are awarded from the community and it would be helpful to
have some basic company information in the Board reports.
Director Malpiede was concerned about the 0% SBE participation goal and
wanted to know why. Mr. Clarke responded that the rational is that we are
buying a product similar to buying a Microsoft product so there really isn’t a
SBE option.
Director Tobiassen asked if there would be infrastructure needed here at
RTD? Ms. Alvarado said that Aconex has not been on site yet but there is
money set aside in the contract if infrastructure upgrades are needed. Right
now staff is thinking they most likely will not need any. Director Tobiassen
wanted more information on the technical support that Aconex will provide.
Aconex has a twenty-four hour, seven days a week tech line; they will
provide 100% support including all upgrades and patches.
Director Tobiassen asked if RTD will own anything after seven years? Ms.
Alvarado explained that the data from the Aconex software will be
downloaded into Documentum at regular intervals.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 3
Director Tobiassen asked if this was a web based system that contractors
would be able to work with. Ms. Alvarado answered that one of the
advantages of Aconex is that many people will be able to have access
(stakeholders, contractors, Board members etc.), whereas Documentum is an
internal system only.

II.

MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates
 CAC – There is no update this time as the CAC has not met since the last
FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting.


Denver Union Station – Kent Bagley said that Denver Union Station (with the
Chair’s approval) will now be discussed at Study Sessions on a monthly
basis.



Southeast and Southwest Corridor Extensions – Bill Van Meter introduced the
Southeast and Southwest Corridor teams of Andy Mutz and Susan Wood.
The Committee had no questions on the information that was in the Board
packet and thanked the team for their hard work.
Director Tobiassen expressed concern about “Kiss-n-Rides” and they seem to
turn into “Stop-n-Waits” at the very busy stations and would hope that staff
takes that into consideration with the kiss-n-Rides planned for both these
corridors.



Property Acquisition Communication Plan –Pauletta Tonilas, FasTracks Public
Information Manager spoke about the plan. Property acquisition is one of the
most difficult processes that we go through during projects. The District sees
value in making sure the community at large is informed and educated about
this process. We are starting property acquisition for the Eagle P3 project so
this is a good time to bring forward the plan that talks about what staff has
been doing and what we will do in the future.
Director Brohl said she remembered something from the lessons learned
regarding engaging local jurisdictions and wanted to know if that was
happening. Susan Altes, Manager of Real Property, said meetings have been

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 4
held with the City of Aurora and City and County of Denver. They have met
with City Council staff members and aides as well as State representatives.
These meetings took place in March 2010. Director Christopher would like to
see elected officials added in the work plan.
Director Tobiassen commended Susan Altes and Mike Turner for their efforts
in Aurora recently.
John Tayer suggested adding a definition of “Fair market value” in the work
plan and also having it relate to businesses regarding doing development once
a property is “tagged.” There is a perception in the community that once a
property has been marked for possible acquisition that no further development
can be done on that property.
Ms. Tonilas also touched on the Flow of Communication and stressed the
forwarding of any calls/emails/conversations regarding property issues be
directed to Susan Altes.


Construction/Finance Ready Plan – General Manager Phil Washington and
Rick Clarke gave this presentation. The presentation was titled “2010 APE
Recap and Implementation Approach Through 2010” and a copy of this
presentation is available in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting
Minute Notebook. Here are some of the highlights of the presentation:
 Sales tax vote in 2010 means the program can be completed by
2017.
 Sales tax vote in 2012 results in an increase of at least $200
million to the program cost.
 No vote or unsuccessful tax vote results in the program
completed by 2042.
 No full funding grant agreement sees program completion in
2025.
 RTD will not know how much funding is left for the remainder
of the FasTracks program if any until the Eagle Project reaches
financial close (August 2010).
 It will take approximately one month after financial close
to re-run the FasTracks financial plan to determine how
much funding remains.
 After the August 2010 Eagle P3 concessionaire close the Board
can decide to construct shorter segments rather than whole
corridors.
 Staff is working to complete design-build packages on one or
more corridors (currently being prepared for I-225 and North
Metro).
 Staff is working on advance design on one or more corridors

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 5



(i.e. using Design Bid Build vs. Design Build)
A Finance ready task force has been created. We may want to
consider upgrading the Environmental Evaluations to meet the
full requirements for federal clearance. This would require
additional analysis of a few specialized technical areas and
limited additional public process.
It will provide more
opportunities for applying for federal funds (e.g. jobs bill,
additional New Starts funding, livability grants, etc.) if they
become available. We are “at the table” to help with the
crafting of these guidelines. Quality of Life report was sent to
FTA. The FTA was very enthusiastic about this report.

Key Milestones and Decision Points
 June 2010 – concessionaire selected for Eagle Project
 End of August 2010 – Financial close with selected
concessionaire
 October 2010 – RTD staff updates financial plan (incorporating
the final costs for the Eagle Project) and presents the following
information to the RTD Board.
 October – December 2010 – RTD Board works with
stakeholders to obtain feedback on the list of activities that
could be accomplished with the remaining funds.
 December 2010- Board takes action on how to move forward.
 January 2011 – New APE is released.
Rick Clarke said that staff’s goal is to build as much as we can as fast as we
can.
The Committee was impressed with this presentation.
III.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for May 4, 2010.

IV.

Other Matters – Director McMullen spoke about the possibility of having a presence
at County Fairs during the summer. Director Busck said we need to do a public
information program about FasTracks that is not tied to any election. It is very
evident that a lot of people do not understand what FasTracks is about. General
Manager Washington commented regarding Public Information and said construction
is the best publicity for the program.

V.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
 C.R.S. 24-6-402 (3)(a) – Eagle P3 Procurement
At 7:59 p.m., Chair McMullen requested a motion to move into Executive Session.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 6, 2010
Page 6
MOTION:

Director Bagley made a motion to move to
Executive Session to discuss C.R.S 24-6402(3)(a).

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

The Executive Session adjourned at approximately 8:40 p.m.

