2023-04-11
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, April 11 Finance and Planning Committee of the Regional
Transportation District here in Denver will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending this meeting please to mute
yourself until you are actually formally recognized to speak.
We want to thank you all for joining us this evening, and we please ask you to note that the committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are continuing to be held remotely via Zoom for at least the next
several months. These meetings will be audio and video recorded.
The recordings of these meetings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings themselves, will be
posted as soon as is reasonably practicable on the Board's website. Please feel free to visit rtddenver.com to find those. And there's also a live stream of this meeting that is available for you on RTD's
YouTube channel. So you may feel free to use that as well.
Directors and members of staff, please, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged to
speak during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
call upon you before proceeding to speak so that we may make a comprehensible record.
And Directors and staff who are participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that
they would like to speak by pressing star 9 on your phone. And to toggle your mute setting on the phone,
you simply have to press star 6. So I will now call the roll for the committee members. Director Peggy
Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Director Bobby Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Chair Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Ian Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Michael Guzman? We'll ask again. Director Guzman, are you present?
We will acknowledge him if he joins the meeting later. Director and Vice Chair of this committee, Erik
Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

DOUG TISDALE: And I am Doug Tisdale and serve as Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee,
and I am present. And for the sake of the record, I will indicate whom I see and I'll ask for others to
supplement. I see that Director Bob Broom is with us here this evening, and the record should so reflect.
And Director Marjorie Sloan is with us here this evening.
Director Kate Williams is here with us this evening. And Director Troy Whitmore is also present with us
this evening. Are there any other Board member-- Oh I see, I'm sorry. Director JoyAnn Ruscha I also see
is present with us here this evening. Are there any other Board members who are present that I have not
acknowledged?
Hearing none, I take it that I have acknowledged everyone who is present for this meeting. And that
means that we now proceed to the public comment. And I'd note that Director Guzman has now joined us.
So Director Michael Guzman, your presence as a committee member is acknowledged and recorded.
We now proceed to the public comment section of this meeting. And I will open up the public comment for
anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic that is listed in the published
meeting agenda for this current month or for the immediately preceding month.
So if you would wish to speak to us and you haven't already done this, please either raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone and staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed
in also, remember press star 6 in order to toggle your mute settings.
Before we acknowledge people, let's please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are
being recorded and you give your consent thereto. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments
will need to be submitted to us in writing. And comments can always be submitted to the Board Office at
this email address, which is rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Now during public comment, please note that the committee will not be offering comments or responses.
Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend
themselves to some sort of follow up. And speakers should please begin their remarks by stating your
name, and each speaker will have up to three minutes to speak.
Now I see no hands raised from anyone on the Zoom call itself. Let me then ask staff, is there anyone
who has raised their hand by way of connection on the telephone?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no hands raised.
DOUG TISDALE: Seeing no hands raised, we have no one who has asked to speak out loud at this
meeting. Let me then ask our Board Office staff, were any email comments received for this meeting of
the Finance and Planning Committee?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there were no emails.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so with no participants in the queue and no email comments received, we will
close the public comment portion of this meeting at this time. Our next item on the agenda is information
from external entities. And there is one external entity report on the agenda this evening. And it is one
that we always look forward to when we have the pleasure of the company of the CU Leeds School of
Business with us.

And so regarding the sales and use tax forecast, I would now like to ask Doug MacLeod, the Chief
Financial Officer of the RTD, and those representatives from the University of Colorado Leeds School of
Business to present their sales and use tax forecast. Mr. MacLeod, I will acknowledge you first, so that
you may then also introduce the team from the CU Leeds School.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And good evening to the committee members, as well as other
Board members. This is a semi-annual forecast that CU Leeds School of Business Business Research
Division prepares for RTD. RTD contracts with the Business Research Division to get independent
economic consulting services not readily available in-house. This comes before this committee twice a
year. The forecast is used for, the sales and use tax forecast is used for not only our budget, our annual
budget, but also our mid-term financial plan and our long range forecasting.
As this body is aware, our sales and use taxes for RTD make up approximately 2/3 of total revenues. So
it's a very important source of funding for this agency. The packet itself includes the full forecast, in
addition to these presentation materials. So if you're interested in reading the full forecast with
commentary, it is available publicly.
And my final comment is to mention that the presentation that you will see tonight has a few slight
changes to some of the slides, based on some additional information that was recently received, more
current information. And the team will review those as they go through their presentation.
So without further ado, I would like to introduce our guest speakers, Robert McNown, Richard
Wobbekind, Brian Lewandowski, and Adam Illig from the Business Research Division up at CU Leeds. So
gentlemen, please go ahead. The floor is yours.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: All right. So I'm sharing the screen. Are we seeing it?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, we see it.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Great. So thank you so much for the introduction. And as always, thank you so
much for working with us. We very much appreciate this. As mentioned by Doug, the names of our team
are on the slide. And one of us is missing, but the other four are here to help answer questions.
For the sake of time, and knowing you have a long agenda, only two of us are speaking and we hope to
proceed through the slides in a rather, a timely fashion, if you will. So that said, we are having trouble
moving the slides forward.
OK. So you're well aware, we've been involved with this. I'm not going to go into any detail. While there
were a number of new Board members when we presented last fall, now you're getting settled in, those of
you who were relatively new at the time. I will highlight that we've been doing this for over 10 years. And
the first four names on the initial slide were all in from the beginning. So we've had quite a long run and
seen a lot of data and a lot of pieces of the economy as we've gone through the years.
That said, you don't need to open up any news broadcast or newspaper or Wall Street Journal or
Business Week to know that there have been a lot of mixed signals from the national economy. And of
course, the national economy helps drive the state economy. The state economy helps drive the RTD
model, something you'll hear more about from my colleague Robert McNown in just a short period of time.
So we've been tracking these things. And a lot of them, they literally are changing week to week. But
when we had something in green, it was optimism in terms of not going into a recessionary scenario.

Something in yellow, it's sort of going sideways at the moment. And then the items in red were clearly
things that we felt were more signaling trouble ahead, or a definite headwind as opposed to a tailwind in
the economy.
And more recently, we have seen significant signs of slowdown. You may or may not recall, but when we
came out with our annual forecast in the fall and in December, we talked about the fact we anticipated
very slow GDP growth for this year. We got a little bit fooled by how strong the economy remained in
November, December, and into the beginning of January. But now the economy seems to be settling into
this pattern of a much slower growth for the current year, for 2023, GDP growth of under 1%.
So the first quarter GDP, which is in the books but not announced to us yet, be coming up in a few weeks,
the first quarter GDP number is probably going to be something around 1.7%. But then the next three
quarters are a lot more tenuous. Second quarter growth probably going to be really slow, like less than
0.5%, somewhere in that range. Potential for the third quarter GDP growth to be negative and then the
fourth quarter GDP growth to be only slightly positive.
So all by way of saying that the scenarios we're running to do these forecasts are really anticipating a
very slow year. We talked about it as potentially a slow session, no recession technically, but a very, very
slow growth for the year. We look at employment. You've heard many times that US employment and
Colorado employment have preceded the February 2020 COVID peak.
Of course, that's good news as a general statement. But if you look at the red line on the slide, what I'm
really trying to highlight here is that had we stayed on the previous trend, that the US economy would
have at least two million more jobs than what we have right now. So while it's good or decent job growth,
it certainly is indicating we haven't gotten back to, if you will, potential job growth if you want to think of it
in that fashion.
And of course, one of the things that's been hampering us has been the inflationary environment. You can
see on this particular slide-- and again, you have all of these in your packet-- the comparison between the
US city average, that's overall US, the Mountain region, which Colorado is part of, and Denver, Aurora,
Lakewood. And we're going to have new numbers on this at the end of this week.
There's a little bit of not positive anticipation out there at this point. There are some people who think
we're going to see inflation potentially at the national level tick up a little bit. And that might in fact impact
future monetary policy or, being more specific, lock in the next rate increase of 25 basis points. I think
some people are hoping the Fed might hold at this point in time, but if inflation runs a little hot on Friday, I
think we're going to be looking at a scenario that would be likely see another rate increase.
One thing that has happened in the last several months as new data has come in is our rank amongst
other states has fallen in a number of categories. This is a little bit, I don't know, complicated is the word a
lot of people like to use. But in the third quarter of last year, when we had the third quarter data for
Colorado, we had some very impressive numbers in personal income and personal income growth.
And that, as it turns out when we look at the data more carefully, was really brought about to some extent
from the TABOR tax refunds that we all received during that quarter-- or many of us received during that
quarter. So that bumped up our personal income growth. And we went from being the number one state
in the country for transfer payments in the third quarter of 2022 to the lowest.

We were ranked 50th, I should say, in personal income transfers in the fourth quarter. So that particular
piece really impacted us a little bit in terms of our personal income growth. And you can see, from being a
top five personal income growth state, we've dropped down now into the 20s. We've also seen a slowing
in our employment growth. If you see the second number down on this slide, 1.6% year-over-year ranks
the state 46th.
Now, again, I don't want to spend too much time on this, but just in context so people aren't jumping off
the bridge here. We had very rapid growth. And we had one of the earliest recoveries out of the COVID
recession. We were a top 10, top 15 state. So cooling a little bit sooner than some of the other states, I
don't think makes things dramatically bad. We're still talking about a healthy growth rate for this year,
particularly compared to the national economy.
We look at a couple of very positive indicators. Labor force, we're currently 81,000 higher from a previous
peak, the COVID peak. And that's a 2.6% growth in the labor force. And while we're no longer the second
highest labor force participation state-- I should have highlighted this on the last slide-- we're still one of
the highest labor force participation states in the country. So that's good news.
And on the right hand side, you see a statistic that's oftentimes quoted at the national level. It's called the
Job Openings and Labor Turnover survey, or the JOLTS survey. And you can see the incredible gap that
came about after the recovery from the COVID recession, with way more job openings than we have
unemployed people in the economy. The most recent data, that gap is closing a little bit, both nationally
and in the state.
But we're still talking about approximately 1.8 jobs available for every one unemployed person, so the
opportunities are still very strong. And all of that leads to having very solid, if you will, unemployment
rates, both in the state and nationally, what you would consider to be a healthy employment market. The
state level number is at 3.2%.
And just to provide a little bit of color for the commissioners and the staff, we provided this slide to just
give you a sense of the counties that are represented in the RTD district, how they're doing. And a couple
of them have higher unemployment rates than the state, but most don't. And the numbers are still,
generally speaking, a pretty modest number. So we're feeling pretty good. And this is through February,
so very recent data that we updated this slide with.
And then the other thing we're seeing is a definite slowing in terms of national and retail sales. Still a very
healthy growth rate year-over-year through February. This is the February number that we have for the
nation is at 5.4%. But it did decline in February, so we are starting to see the slowdown of the national
economy and the slowdown in the employment and, frankly, the impact of the higher interest rates
starting to slow the momentum in terms of retail sales and in terms of overall GDP growth.
This is an updated slide through January. The one in your packet was through December. And I only
highlight that because you can see year-over-year the state is now down to 6.6% growth. That's the green
dotted line, year-over-year in terms of taxable retail sales. And you can see that there now are an
increasing number of counties that year-over-year have negative sales tax growth on the right hand side.
Fortunately, none of the district, RTD district counties, are in that category. Everybody in yellow is in
positive territory, at least through January. But this sort of gives you a sense of the slowing nature, if you
will. And Robert will talk more about this shortly, but that was built into the forecast that you have that we
provided back in time. So we'll have more discussion of that.

With that I'm passing this baton on to my colleague, Robert McNown, and he's going to take you through
the slides are built around the RTD forecast. Take it away, Robert.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, thank you, Rich. Rich has laid out the national context very effectively. And
it's the national economy that, at least in part, drives our model of the Colorado economy. So we'll spend
a little bit of glancing at what the current forecasts look like. We take our forecasts from Moody's. And I'll
talk a little bit more later about the alternative scenarios that Moody's provides.
But according to the baseline scenario, which we're emphasizing in our forecast, you can see that for
2023, highlighted in red here, these indicators are substantially weaker, considerably weaker than they
were in 2022, the one exception being personal income. And personal income is a bit of an anomaly,
because it includes not just wage and salary growth but also transfer payments and investment income
and so on.
But look, for example, particularly at retail sales, which is really crucial in our model for driving sales tax
revenues. And you can see in 2022 that retail sales grew by over 9%. And now for 2023, Moody's is
projecting only a 2.2% growth in retail sales. Let's go to the next slide, Rich.
And so the core of our forecasting model is a model of the Colorado economy. And so let's see what the
key indicators look like there for the current year, for 2023. And again, you see the same thing,
particularly noting on retail sales how much lower we expect retail sales to be for 2023 compared to last
year. And also compare that 4.6% projected growth in retail sales with the rate of inflation in the Front
Range at 4.3%.
So there's really no real increase in sales expenditures here, that basically consumers are expected to
sort of maintain their current standard of living by simply spending more to keep up with the increasing
price level. And the other thing that looks considerably slower is the growth in employment, which, as
Rich pointed out, was surprisingly strong in 2022. Let's go on to the next one.
So here we get to the sales and use tax revenues, which is, of course, the ultimate output from our
model. We forecast a number of separate components of sales tax revenues, because, as we noticed
over the pandemic and in the aftermath, that these different components were moving in different
directions altogether. As you well know, we've had, for example, grocery store sales really strong,
restaurant sales really grim.
And then the reverse somewhat. Although grocery stores have sales have maintained pretty good
strength coming out of the pandemic as well. So any rate, comparing last year, where we had 13%
growth in RTD sales and use tax revenues in 2022, our projection now is only close to 4% growth for the
current year, a little bit stronger in 2024. OK, Rich, next one.
So now of course, we're always revising our forecasts as we get more data. And here you can see, for
example, some surprising strength, as Rich mentioned, in late 2022 has increased sales and use tax
revenues to a higher level than we were anticipating, even though our forecasted rate of growth was
pretty strong, but not as strong as actually materialized.
And so you can see then that the current projections, and now going out through our medium term
horizon, out to 2029, that the current forecast, although there's three forecasts from currently and the
previous ones, seem to follow pretty much the same trend but at a higher plateau, a higher level here in
the current forecast, labeled by March, 2023. The next slide.

So we realize that any forecast is going to be vulnerable to some unanticipated events. And so there's
always uncertainty in the forecast. And so we try to capture that in several ways. One is that we generate
statistically based forecast bounds, and those are labeled here by the high forecast and the low forecast.
And they represent basically, there's only a 33% chance that the actual outcome could be higher than the
high forecast or lower than the low forecast.
And then at the same time, we rely on alternative scenarios from Moody's. And those are labeled here by
the optimistic and the pessimistic, and the baseline, which is the one that we emphasize. But of course,
it's always prudent to keep one's eye on the possible outcomes. The pessimistic and optimistic scenarios
for Moody's reflect their alternative assumptions that they might make about some of these headwinds
that may or may not materialize. And the next slide.
So in addition to the short run and medium run forecasts that we've been looking at here, we're also
charged with developing a long run forecast. And that's what you see here. And our model of the long run
revenue forecast depends heavily on demographic changes, the slowing of the population growth and the
aging of the population. And both of those factors are going to have depressive effects on economic
growth.
And you can see that, just take any one of those columns in the table there. So RTD taxable sales, for
example, averaging annual growth in the current decade of over 6% but dropping quite dramatically in the
following two decades. And overall then, expecting growth in taxable sales and therefore tax revenues of
about 3.33% averaged over all three of those decades.
And next slide. So I just want to emphasize the basis behind our forecast. The forecast is model based.
We don't use add factors that other forecasters do and try to make subjective adjustments to what the
model tells us. We think the model makes the best use of available data. We try to bring to bear the most
current economic data in the forecast.
And as in the previous slides, I really emphasize that there is certainly uncertainty about the forecasts.
And we want to present that in a transparent way. And finally, we don't have any particular financial stake
in the forecast numbers, but we want them to be as accurate and useful to the staff and the Board of
RTD. So we'd be happy to take any questions. And our other colleagues, Brian and Adam, are available
as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Robert. We appreciate that. And this is the opportunity now for the
committee members and the other Directors present, if you have a question that you would like to pose to
our financial experts-- and they truly are experts in this field-- please raise your hand and you will be
acknowledged in turn. And the first Director who has raised a hand here is Director Broom. Director
Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The major wildfires that took place in Colorado is going to cause
insurance companies to spend a lot of money rebuilding. Has that been factored into our model?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, our model does include measures of building permits. And so to some extent,
yes, the increased building activity, and, of course being here in Boulder, certainly seeing the impact of
the Marshall Fire and all the rebuilding that's going on there.

And of course, the picture there, the result of that is quite mixed. On the one hand, the construction
activity that's taking place in that area is an increase in construction jobs and building materials. And that,
in turn, is going to lead to some increase in tax revenues.
So through building permits we are capturing some of those effects. Now of course, we're not in a position
to anticipate future fires or any other sort of environmental catastrophe. So that's one of those
unpredictable goals where you want some sort of margin of error in the forecast confidence bounds.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Just as a follow up, has the District been contacted about forgoing the 1% tax
on building materials in those fire areas?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, this is Doug MacLeod. I can answer that question.
So thank you for the question, Director Broom. So the bill is being considered still in the House. As this
body is aware, RTD follows the same exemptions as the state. The proposed bill would exempt certain
use taxes associated with the Marshall Fire rebuilding, should it pass. So assuming that did pass, RTD
would be subject to that exemption.
The way that we've looked at it in discussing this with General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson is that
it's kind of foregone revenue. It's not necessarily a decrease. It would be additional use taxes that would
have been generated, supposing this bill does not pass, that RTD was not anticipating.
The state provided the estimated fiscal impact of those use taxes lost under this bill potentially for RTD.
And their estimate is between $1.1 million and $2.2 million during fiscal year 23-24. And then $0.8 million
to $1.5 million the following fiscal year is the estimated impact from the Marshall Fire rebuilding, should
those taxes not be collected.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. And I take it what I'm hearing on that too is, relative to the
1%, there will be increased construction associated with rebuilding following the fire. There will be a little
less use tax collected should the bill pass. But the increase in construction might pretty much be balanced
out with those two factors, so that might work.
All right. Director Broom, anything further from you, sir?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Whitmore, you are recognized now, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chair, but I certainly would yield to committee members and their
questions first, in the essence of time, if Director Dishell would like to proceed. No? OK. All right. Thank
you, though.
Just back a couple slides, help me, gentlemen, I was real curious about the sales tax revenue-- yes, there
it is-- or Colorado retail sales, what's the thinking on those huge declines in decades out, certainly
probably long after I'm gone. But I'm just curious what drives that. It's just such a huge change.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, it really is a major difference between the current decade and what we're
expecting in the future. And this is very much a demographically driven forecast that, up until now, our

country and our economy has experienced somewhat of a demographic dividend, as we've had a huge
growth in the labor force. Now that growth has disappeared with the aging of the Baby Boomers.
And so we see that that kind of demographic change is having current and future implications for
economic growth, that in order to fund the retirement and Medicare, for example, for this growing elderly
population, that's going to put more of a burden on the working age population, at the same time that the
share of the population that is of working age is shrinking.
And so those factors are sort of a direct way of understanding only one of the several ways in which the
demographic change is having adverse implications for the future economy and future economic growth.
And then simply, the slowing of total population is also contributing to the slowing of economic growth in
those later decades.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Excellent answer.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. A couple observations. First of all, it really-- sorry, Mr. Chair-- but it really
speaks to our need for diversity of income as we move into the next phases of RTD. And secondly, I kind
of resemble some of those remarks, Robert. I'm a shopper and I'll be gone in those decades. They're
going to miss me and all my friends.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Right.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. And Rich, you wanted to add something there?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: I just wanted to-- I mean, just to embellish Robert's comments, as we age, we
buy a lot less goods and a lot more services. So that aging part, to go to what you said, Commissioner
Whitmore, does really impact the retail sales piece.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I can just go back for a second, before recognizing Director Dishell here. I had a
question about packet page 52. It's not on your slides. But for those Directors who have access to their
packet, it's your figure 27, and it's the Colorado value of construction.
And you do reflect that 2021 and '22 were pretty robust, at about $824 billion. I'm sorry, $24 billion-- It
would have been nicer if it was 824-- $24 billion, and you're looking at about $22 billion for 2023. And that
kind of begs the question, back to Director Broom, that's anticipating the remedial and restorative
construction associated with the fires. Is that correct?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, I'm sure that that's a piece of it. But in addition, it's reflecting more
macroeconomic trends that the restrictive monetary policies that the Fed has been pursuing over the last
year or so, higher interest rates and, of course, increasing the cost of borrowing, and that's ultimately
having a negative impact on the construction, whether it's single family, multifamily, even either other
types of non-housing building activity.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that supplement. And I apologize for diverting from Director
Dishell, whom I recognize now.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and no worries. Thank you all for a great presentation. I thought
that, if I missed this, but did I hear you all correctly that you do not take climate risk and climate resilience
into your analysis?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, certainly the Moody's projections, which drive, to some extent, our Colorado
economy model are going to incorporate their best projections of what is going to be happening in terms
of, let's say, adapting to climate change or restructuring the economy away from fossil fuels reliance and
more on cleaner forms of energy.
All those sorts of changes are going to be costly in some sense. And I'm sure that Moody's takes those
into account in their long run projections of, let's say, productivity growth or output per worker.
But in terms of an unanticipated specific climatological event, well, we only take that into account in the
sense of recognizing the uncertainty in our forecasts and representing that uncertainty through those
alternative bounds, the alternative forecasts that take into account either alternative national scenarios or
simply a statistical measure of the uncertainty in the forecast themselves.
So all those sorts of events that we really can't anticipate are going to show up in those confidence bands
that surround the baseline forecast.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I would push back on that a little bit, given that real estate institutional
investment uses climate risk and climate risk resilience in their underwriting today when making lending
and investment decisions in debt and capital markets.
And so it's a little surprising, and frankly concerning, to hear that given use tax and sales tax are such big
components, that your response is, well, no, we just rely on Moody's and hope it incorporates these,
recognizing that the 100-year flood plain, the 50-year flood plain, those FEMA maps, these are known
knowns. We know them within our district.
And so I guess I'll ask it slightly differently. Why haven't you adjusted your methodology to incorporate
what is emerging in institutional and age or debt markets as a key underwriting item and a key risk,
knowing that that's going to have an impact on our sales and use tax?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, I mentioned that there are two ways in which we're incorporating these sort of
future climatological events or adaptation to climate change. One of them was relying, to some extent, on
what Moody's is assuming and how that's going to affect productivity.
But the other, which you didn't seem to take to heart, was that when we present these bounds on the
forecast, where we've got a high forecast and a low forecast, well, you can see that in the slide that's up
here right now. So that low forecast then, for example, would take into account the possibility of
environmental disasters.
We can't tell you when they're going to happen. We can't tell you if they're going to happen. But you're
most likely correct that over the 30-year period that we're looking at into the future here in this long run
forecast, there are going to be some major shocks to the environment with implications for the economy.
And so that's the way in which we accommodate the sort of risk analysis that, I think, I agree with you, is
very important and useful for the staff and for the Directors of RTD, that if you feel that even with these
sort of pessimistic low rates of growth that you're seeing here in the table going out into the future-- if you

think those are still too optimistic, well, that's why there's that lower bound forecast that you can
emphasize, or maybe some intermediate compromise rate of growth.
BOBBY DISHELL: And does your model take into account state legislative policy changes and those
projections? So theoretically, right, the state set pretty aggressive energy goals, which is going to
transition, theoretically, us a bit over to more and more electric vehicles and fewer and fewer fossil fuel
vehicles. And the state's workaround to this was to add these as a fee as opposed to a tax. Is that also
just sort of in the bucket of low forecast?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yes, I would have to say so. I mean, I don't have a specific part of the model that
takes into account specific economic policies that the state government might adopt. The model just
simply is not that detailed.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Is there a reason why we're retaining CU to be our economic forecaster, and
we're here in this metro area and we're all in the same area. Is there a reason we're not-- and I apologize
if I missed this-- but to me, that the advantage of hiring the premier public institution that's also in district
would be to apply that local knowledge and to apply the state regulatory changes. Is there a reason that
CU is not including that in this?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Can my colleagues help me out here?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah, sure. So I guess it may be helpful, Director, if we have a follow up
conversation on that. So when we think about what's taxable within the district, the vehicle tax, for
instance-- and maybe there's something I'm not familiar with in some of these rules that are coming out.
So the gas tax is something that I don't believe RTD is benefiting from, but vehicle sales are. So as we've
looked at vehicle sales in detail, whether it's a fossil fuel vehicle or an EV, we are taking a look at the
value of those vehicles that are sold over time. So I guess the model is a little agnostic to it being an EV
or a fossil vehicle because we're taking a look at the volume of vehicles and the value of vehicles sold
over time.
And we're picking that up in the district and we're taking a look at historical sales within the district. And
we're also seeing that transition to EVs historically and in the Moody's forecast. We're seeing greater and
greater adoption of EVs. So that's in there. So help me out, the particular law that you're referencing, is
that a change in the tax on EV sales and use taxes?
BOBBY DISHELL: It's a specific change in that you're no longer going to a gas station, and which we
know that gas stations derive the vast majority of their profits from point of sale inside that area, right. And
so these policy changes have-- we can connect offline about it.
It's just a little discouraging to hear one right after the other that-- maybe you guys are and I'm just not
picking it up correctly-- but that these specific hyper local issues, which are going to impact the way we
live our lives and the way in which tax is collected and assessed, may not be in the model. And that's a
little concerning for me as a Director. And it could just be that I'm not fully understanding the model. So
maybe we can find some time for that.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah, please. And one of my difficulties, thinking about climate change, is one,
some of the historical models had population change, net migration from the coasts into some of the
interior states like Colorado. But perhaps Colorado won't be the best place to migrate to in the future. And

there are suggestions that maybe Colorado is a flyover state and people move to the upper Midwest,
where water is a little bit more abundant. So that's one thing we've thought about.
Another thing is sort of the perverse reaction with regard to sales and use taxes. And I think that this was
brought up well earlier with regard to the Marshall Fire. So there's the destruction of a lot of property, but
the jurisdictions are sort of rewarded for that, in a way, when we destroy and rebuild. Because all of the
goods that are purchased to rebuild homes and businesses then are taxed, and then that led to this
question about, well, is there some sort of tax abatement for people who are rebuilding from a natural
disaster.
And I don't know what the future legislation will be on that. But is there a case where we just don't rebuild
in some of those areas, because of the change in the flood plains and changes to rules where we build in
the mountains? And so I think that there's sort of uncertainty on both sides. It could lead to the low
forecast line, as Robert was suggesting, if there's sort of a negative adverse effect.
Or if we're just going through this process of rebuilding after a natural disaster and a lot of that ends up
being taxable, could the perverse impact actually be an increase in sales and use taxes in some of these
areas? And so that's part of my struggle. But I would love to hear more from you about this.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I'll send you a note. We'll find some time.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: I know Director Tisdale wants to keep this tight.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. No, that's fine. And I think, just in further response, some of the
projections you're talking about and considerations that developers take into account for their long-term
plans and capital costs associated with construction are not as linked to sales and use tax. And the task
of the CU Leeds School of Business is to address sales and use tax.
And some of the factors that you've addressed, such as climate change, do not directly manifest
themselves in sales and use tax, as I understand it. I don't pretend to be an expert. I think it's a good
discussion. I think we can follow up further on that. Director Williams, let me go to you. You've been
patient.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I just need to make a comment from my platform for older adults,
which is the fastest growing population in the state of Colorado. And hopefully, all of you at this meeting
will enter that category, as opposed to the alternative. And in fact, in my experience, and in a lot of the
studies that are coming out, older adults are outspending the younger groups, because they have
disposable income and because they are downsizing and using that money.
So I would, on top of which, I think as older adults begin using public transportation, once it becomes
again, respect the ride and safe, they are more liable to give up their driver's license and drive and ride
the-- I mean, driver's license and stop driving and ride public transportation. So I just don't want to see us
disregard the influence of older adults in terms of ridership, in terms of finance, or in terms of support.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that observation. And we will definitely be talking more about the age
advantaged community. But Robert, I'm sorry, were you going to add something there?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Richard.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, Richard. Yes.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Commissioner Tisdale. I couldn't agree more. But the point I
was trying to make earlier was that we are better resourced than younger people are, in many cases.
We're spending more of our money on medical and travel.
And going back to one of the other Commissioner's comments earlier on, when you're thinking about
diversity of resources over the longer haul, tying it all to goods, in terms of sales tax, probably doesn't
play well as the population ages. So thinking about that, I don't know what specifically RTD could think
about. But I think it is something worth thinking about.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, one more quickie? When we're looking at-DOUG TISDALE: Go on ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: When we're looking at diversity in older adults, we need to realize that we do, in fact,
provide a service to older adults and people with disabilities through our Access-A-Ride program, which is
an extremely expensive program, and ridership is continuing to rise. So that's something that we need to
be aware of. Now I'll butt out. Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams.
Are there other Directors who have questions for CU? Vice Chair Davidson, please go ahead, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Thanks for the presentation. Always great. Always helpful, especially
seeing the near term impact and forecast, which have been very helpful.
Everyone knows what I'm going to say. Looks like we need to finish this decade with some other ideas of
alternative funding models. So thank you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Another preview of Other Matters this evening. OK. Thank you.
All right. Are there any further comments from our guests from the CU Leeds School of Business that you
would like to finish out with at this time? Richard or Robert?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: As always, we'd like to thank the staff, Commissioner Tisdale. They're very
easy to work with and we very much appreciate the support.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. And we appreciate yours.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Robert? Yeah, thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I'll add that we appreciate the discussions that we have this evening with the
members of the Board and we certainly take their comments to heart. And if it's feasible for us to improve
our modeling and forecasting along the lines that have been discussed this evening, we'll certainly try to
pursue that.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Well, we appreciate that. CU has always been very responsive to
the needs of the RTD. Thank you. All right. With that, we conclude our section of the meeting regarding
reports and information from external entities. And we thank all of the representatives of the CU Leeds
School of Business for their participation this evening.
Our next portion of the agenda relates to recommended actions. There are no recommended actions on
the agenda this evening, but you're not getting out that easily, folks. We now have some discussion items
for you. There are two discussion items on the agenda this evening.
And the first item is the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study update. And so at this time, I would
respectfully ask Henry Stopplecamp, our Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, and Patrick
Stanley, the Manager of Engineering Programs, and Jeet Desai, the Manager of Engineering
Construction, and Carl Green, Jr., our Director of Civil Rights, to present this item.
In the first instance, I will call upon Henry Stopplecamp, if-- and I don't see you on the screen, Henry. Are
you-- oh, there you are. All right. Thank you. Henry, you are recognized, sir.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Mr. Chair and Board of Directors. My team, made up of the
individuals which you just mentioned and I, will be giving an update on the Northwest Rail Peak Service
Feasibility Study. It's in the Board packet starting on page 79. There's a three-page summary in there,
and then slides into the PowerPoint on page 83.
Just as a reminder, the study is to gather a common set of facts to determine the impacts and the
requirements to provide Northwest Rail Corridor with three trains from Longmont to Denver Union Station
in the morning and three trains from Denver Union Station to Longmont in the evening.
So with that, I will turn it over to the team. They will go through the project and give everybody an update
of where we are. We're about one year into the study. And we felt it was time to come back to the Board.
So with that, I will turn it over to our project Manager, Patrick Stanley. Take it away, Patrick.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you, Henry. Thank you, Mr. Chair and Directors. Can everybody see the
presentation OK? OK. We will get rolling here. Once again, my name is Patrick Stanley. I am the Manager
of Engineering Programs at RTD. I serve as the Project Manager for the Northwest Rail Peak Service
Feasibility Study. Presenting with me today is Jeet Desai, Business Program Manager, Capital Programs,
and Carl Green, Jr., Director of Civil Rights at the Civil Rights Division.
I thank you for the opportunity to present an update on the study and the initial public input we received
from our first round of public open houses. The following presentation starts on page 83 of your Board
packet, if you wish to follow along in that manner. Let me get this. OK, there.
So in today's project update, we will provide an overview of the Northwest Rail and Peak Service
Feasibility concept. We'll provide a summary of community outreach and input efforts. We'll also provide
environmental justice and equity effort update, and we'll provide a quick look at the upcoming next steps
for the study.
So I'd like to start with a quick overview and refresher about the Northwest Rail. The Northwest Rail was
included as part of the FasTracks program that was approved by voters in 2004. In total, the rail line
would include 42 miles of rail service from Denver Union Station to Longmont. A little over six miles of the
corridor, known as the B Line, was completed in 2016 as part of the Eagle P3 project.

The B Line is a overhead electrified segment that operates on RTD dedicated and controlled track which
terminates at the existing Westminster station near 72nd and Lowell. The remaining 35 miles would
operate on the existing BNSF track from Westminster station to Longmont.
So following the passage of the FasTracks program, an environmental evaluation was completed in 2010
that looked at full service scenario which included 55 round trips per day, full double tracking of the entire
corridor, and 11 stations. But due to a lack of dedicated funding source at that time, the project was not
able to be implemented at that particular time.
So in 2013, RTD conducted the Northwest Area Mobility Study, or NAMS. The NAMS looked at phasing
for the full service and area really by segments. But after careful consideration, RTD, along with the
Northeast area stakeholders, determined the Northwest Rail to be a longer term goal, with RTD
committing to further exploration and providing periodic updates.
In 2017, the concept of an initial peak service was proposed by the Northwest area stakeholders. From
that time until 2021, the RTD staff and stakeholder partners worked to refine the peak service concept. In
addition to that, RTD reengaged with the BNSF to discuss the feasibility of a peak service program.
The study is assessing the feasibility, as Henry mentioned, of an initial peak period service which consists
of three weekday morning trips from Longmont to Denver and three weekday evening trips from Denver
back to Longmont. We are partnering with local jurisdictions to plan six new stations on the extended
portion of the corridor.
Additionally, we are looking at feasible locations for a maintenance facility in Longmont, since the vehicle
technology of the Northwest Rail would differ from our current commuter rail fleet. The study is looking at
potential train types and technologies that meet our operational needs and requirements. Throughout the
study we're exploring opportunities for potential partnerships, including the Front Range Passenger Rail.
So as I mentioned earlier, peak service would include six new stations along the extended 35-mile
segment. Starting from the South, these stations are downtown Westminster, Broomfield 116, Flatiron,
downtown Louisville, Boulder Junction at Depot Square, and downtown Longmont.
So at RTD, while we're leading the study, we're not doing this alone. We are working through a
collaborative effort between RTD, local transportation partners, BNSF Railway, CDOT, and the Front
Range Passenger Rail District. The organizations you see listed on this slide make up our Study Advisory
Team, or what we refer to as the SAT, for the project and help to provide input and feedback throughout
the process. Collectively, we aim to provide a safe, reliable, and connected multimodal transportation
network in the Northwest area.
We would like to point out potential benefits of peak service that may make it a more feasible option.
Peak service would require fewer infrastructure and operational needs and, given limited resources, could
allow a rail service on the corridor sooner rather than later. The concept prevents a more cost effective
approach to begin initial train service while pursuing funding for future all-day service.
A peak service would accomplish track and safety upgrades, which would lay the foundation for all-day
service. And peak service has a proven track record in other urban areas as a starter service that can
expand as ridership demand grows. And then finally, peak service could address some of the ridership
needs of today that could be built upon as demand grows.

There is no determined start date for rail service to begin. The purpose of this study, as Henry mentioned,
is to explore the feasibility of a peak service operation by determining what track improvements and
infrastructure is needed to operate a peak service on the corridor. We are working to identify what we
refer to as a common set of facts, including design, construction, and operations cost, ridership, benefits
and impacts, and potential strategic partnerships.
The study is broken up into a five milestone process, with the work continuing until the end of this year.
Milestones one and two were fact finding efforts associated with the definition of the peak service concept
and discovery of existing conditions throughout the corridor. Obviously, many things have changed since
the 2010 environmental evaluation.
We are currently in milestone three, which is represented by this vertical blue line on the slide that you
see here. And we are working to define the initial base configuration of peak service. So moving forward
into milestones four and five, the study will examine opportunities to refine the peak service base
configuration and identify potential partnerships and funding sources and define options, strategies, and
possible next steps.
As you can see here, we had our first public engagement earlier this year, at the end of January and early
February, which is right here on this image. And at this time, I would like to turn the presentation over to
my colleague, Mr. Jeet Desai, who will provide an update on community outreach and input efforts. Jeet,
it's all yours.
JEET DESAI: Thank you, Patrick. And thank you, Mr. Chairs and Director for your time this evening. I'm
Jeet Desai, Manager of Engineering Construction with Capital Programs, and I'm excited to be here. The
study team held two in-person public houses.
The first one was held on 31st in Boulder and the next one was on February 2 in Westminster. The total
attendance for these two events combined was 195 participants. We collectively received 29 comment
cards at the event and also provided QR codes for participants to visit our online meetings.
The online meeting ran for three weeks, from January 31 to February 21. The online meeting received
over 3,000 total views and generated 173 completed surveys. Additionally, over 350 comments and email
signups occurred on RTD web page.
Following the open houses, RTD and Northwest Rail Study Advisory Team members met to debrief and
capture common sentiments that emerged from the public events. Overall, the impression was positive,
with a bit of cautious optimism. We heard from several people that although the peak service scenario
may not work for them now, but they support the study as a starter service, because that can expand later
as demand grows.
There were also concerns expressed that range from potential reverse commute challenges, additional
station locations, particularly at Niwot and Gunbarrel, and service for customers with non-traditional
commuting times, that is, people working in hospitality and service industries. The team also heard
feedback about potential partnerships with FRPR and BNSF and what those might look like.
There were a number of questions about the difference between Northwest Rail full-build and peak
service operations. The questions were focused on ridership cost and schedule deltas. Our responses
were more focused on peak period operations.

We also heard questions about growth occurring around the stations, future developments, and the
strains it can possibly cause on the existing infrastructure. Of course, one anticipated question was, what
are the next steps if peak service is deemed infeasible? The project team's response was more leaning
towards building more collaborations and partnerships for exploring more feasibility options.
We analyzed the comments provided at the open houses and from the online meetings. Many of the
themes we observed at the open houses were identical and also noted in the comments. The tone of the
responses was positive and the responders urged the team to explore possible partnership with
Northwest Rail implementation.
We observed positive feedbacks from attendees who are new to the area and are not familiar with the
Northwest Rail study and also from the attendees who have lived in prior locations that have robust rail
transit services There is a continued interest in station location and additional station sites.
People have expressed concerns about the peak service scenario, how well the existing RTD and local
transportation systems will integrate with the Northwest Rail peak service project, and the potential bus
service reductions with implementing the peak service plan. Attendees and responders appear to be
excited and curious about the potential land use and development opportunities around the station areas.
Questions were raised about the kind of development anticipated. Some attendees did also express
concerns about the possibility of existing residents being pushed out because of the new development.
And finally, there were a number of questions about the impacts of construction activities. Although at this
point, this is not an immediate concern, but would need to be addressed in the future should the project
move forward.
One of the questions in the survey was how the service might not meet the needs of potential customers.
It is important to note that survey responders selected more than one category as a response. Most
survey responders expressed concerns about limited operating frequency, that is, no weekend or no
midday or no evening service or non-traditional commuting patterns. Some survey responders felt that the
proposed stops missed the key destinations.
The survey also focused on the benefits of peak service plan. It was very encouraging to see all of the
categories look pretty even, which even shows that the service could provide a wide range of benefit
across the board. The survey responders expressed support for the study and, if implemented, they feel
they will have more mobility solutions, will have stress free commute, a safer way to travel, and reduced
transportation cost.
For the maintenance facility, the survey asked, what factors are the most important to consider when
evaluating a potential site? I would like to note that most people who responded to discussions do not live
in the immediate vicinity of the potential site.
Nevertheless, most common factors are not surprising and are typical for this type of facility. Most survey
responders expressed concerns about the train operation noise, air quality impact, traffic disruption, and a
few were concerned about the visual impacts.
At this time, I would like to turn the presentation over to Carl Green, Jr., who will provide an update on
environmental justice and equity efforts. Take it away, Carl. Thank you.
CARL GREEN, JR..: Thank you so much, Jeet, and good evening, Mr. Chair and fellow Board of
Directors. Again, my name is Carl Green, Jr., Director of the Civil Rights Division. As both Henry and

Patrick have alluded to, at this stage we're working towards identifying what we call a common set of
facts.
An integral component to that is environmental justice and equity. And what I can say is that we are
definitely leaning forward as it relates to compliance and the requirements as set forth by Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as well as the federal regulatory guidance as it relates to environmental justice
and Title VI. Next slide.
So what is environmental justice? Just to give a broad stroke overview, first bullet here, fair treatment and
meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin, which includes linguistically
diverse populations and income. One highlight that I wanted to mention here, just as Jeet wonderfully
stated the overall stakeholder involvement plan and what feedback we received, I also wanted to highlight
that as far as the environmental justice and equity component is ensuring that we're providing meaningful
involvement.
So working with the project management team and the consultants, we were able to leverage our
community partners as well as community-based organizations to extend the reach to these historically
underrepresented populations to ensure that they have this information, that they are invited and included
in these open houses, as well as the ability to be able to partake in the survey responses.
Next is focusing on equity-- whoops, previous slide, please. [INAUDIBLE] on equitably sharing project
benefit and preventing disproportionate impacts. This goes part and parcel with the overall project,
ensuring that we are ensuring that the equity scales are balanced. And then a focus here is on racial
minority or low income communities.
If you look at the picture to the right, you can see the six proposed stations of this study, along with the
overlay of the BIPOC, or people of color, indicating that it is 35.4% people of color within this corridor.
And we leveraged this, among other tools, of being able to zero in to say, where these populations are,
where they live in specific neighborhoods, so we can leverage that to be able to do targeted outreach to
these specific populations.
And then lastly, environmental justice analysis is required for projects using federal funding. So the
difference here is where you have for federal projects environmental justice analysis, whereas with Title
VI, it's both for federal and locally funded. Next slide.
Now let's get into the environmental justice process. First, I just want to highlight the very bottom, why the
EJ process matters. One is to ensure that historically underrepresented populations are involved in the
planning and decision making process. We are able to create a plan for how the benefits of the extended
commuter rail service will be shared among the communities, as well as to address any potential negative
impacts as it relates to the project, specifically for EJ populations.
So if you then gravitate up to the top, when we're looking at the four stage of the process, from stage one
is learning, two is identifying, three is mitigation, four is collaborating, we are inching towards the
identifying stage. The current status is between learning and identifying, where we're getting a better
understanding of the environmental justice communities, what are the perceived benefits or the potential
benefits and negative effects.
And then also, as we move along in this study, is being able to say if there are any potential impacts,
what are we going to do to minimize or avoid them. And then four, again, a big piece of this is about

collaboration, so documenting our process and being able to cultivate these relationships as it relates to
the community partners for the future project. Next slide.
So getting into the Northwest Rail Maintenance Facility, as Patrick mentioned earlier, we are looking at
feasible locations for a maintenance facility in Longmont. And initially in the process, RTD identified nine
potential sites. We have distilled that down to three potential sites which remain for further study.
Specifically, why we chose these three sites is because of the close proximity to the end of the line of
downtown Longmont station.
If you look at the graphic to the left, you can see that Patrick is definitely doing the circle cursor. I
appreciate that for context, where we can see the downtown Longmont proposed station. And then, as
you can see, with the yellow, orange, and blue, where there's a potential site too, site 8 and site 9, in
addition to the close proximity, we want to ensure that it's bordering an existing rail track that can connect
to the proposed Northwest Rail line-- and then lastly, needing to ensure that it's large enough for the rail
maintenance facility, with adequate space to support all-day rail service in the future.
And one big bullet point that I wanted to highlight, or one thing that I wanted to emphasize, that is at this
time, there are no approved plans to acquire property or construct the facility. Next slide. So really getting
into the Title VI piece of it, and which I love about this project, where we're leaning forward with respect to
equity.
So although we're in the planning stage of this study, we have built into our work to conduct a preliminary
Title VI facility siting equity analysis, which is a requirement by the FTA, or the Federal Transit
Administration, where if we are looking at facility location or location of site, we are conducting analysis to
compare these siting alternatives. And it must occur before the preferred site selection.
And just to give you an overview of what the assessment includes is we're looking at who would be
potentially impacted by each of these different siting alternatives, specifically looking at EJ or Title VI
populations, BIPOC and low income. Two is whether or not there are any residents or businesses that
require displacement of those residents or businesses.
Third is looking at the cumulative impacts from similar facilities that are in that particular area, so
essentially what is the cumulative or aggregated impacts of having a facility, a maintenance facility at that
location. And then number four, which is equally as important as this macro and micro level data
assessment, is ensuring that we are bringing in input and conducting comprehensive outreach to persons
that are potentially impacted by this facility siting.
But as Jeet stated earlier, within the potential sites, there are no residents close within a certain proximity
of the actual site. So this is more of a cross-check to get a better understanding of what type of impacts
by virtue of having a facility siting at that location. So with that being said, I'll now pass it back over to
Patrick.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you, Carl. Appreciate that. So where do we go from here? From our current
point in the study, right towards the end of milestone three, we will continue to define and refine the initial
footprint of the stations, freight sitings, and project infrastructure needs. We are analyzing the public input
from the first public engagement touchpoints to determine how they might impact the peak service
footprint.

We will continue the ongoing efforts to compile and document the common set of facts. This is an effort
that's really going to continue throughout the entirety of the study. And then the next public open houses
are planned for late spring, early summer to present more detailed information on the base configuration
and updates on milestone four activities.
So I'd like to thank all of you for Board participation in the open houses and for your interest on the
project. We are pleased to be able to present this information to all of you tonight, and we look forward to
being able to answer any questions that you might have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I greatly appreciate all of the information from all of our very
talented and dedicated staff regarding this important study and the efforts that we are doing to push it
forward. It represents a unique manifestation of communication, collaboration, and cooperation.
And so it's good to see that. And that's what we're focused on tonight is talking about this communication
plan, this outreach plan, and what we're doing to carry this all forward and get further information. So let's
entertain questions in that regard. And let's begin with Director Dishell. You have the floor, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. One comment, one question, which is confirming what I believe
was reported to us earlier, which is thank you guys for getting out there and doing those outreach efforts.
I have really grave concerns on the weight that 368 people might have on a multibillion dollar capital
project-- which I got to by adding 195 people in person, plus 173 survey respondents-- which assumes
that each person only filled out the survey once and none of the people who attended the in-person
sessions also filled out a survey-- which means that 368 number is likely high.
That's really concerning if-- and again, every person's input is valid. But to me, that's a really low number
for the price tag on this project. That's not a dig at any of the staff, but I think just something to keep in
mind as we're looking at the comments we've received.
The other is my understanding is that this would be a diesel train. And the second most popular benefit to
this was reducing emissions. Is there a-- practically, if this moves forward, what does this look like? Does
the asset exist that would draw an electric catenary overhead that then converts over to diesel at a new
station? Or do we have to procure special cars?
Do we have to take down the electric? Do we have to run electric all the way up? Help me understand
that component of it, making sure that we're planning for facilities and for vehicles that actually exist and
that we can maintain.
DOUG TISDALE: So who wants to respond? And I see our General Manager/CEO Debra Johnson. You
are recognized, ma'am. You have the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. And Director Dishell,
thank you so much for your question. And I, too, would like to recognize staff's hard work and diligence on
this feasibility study in bringing forward the comments in which they were able to garner through
extensive outreach.
So to the question that was posed by the Director, specifically Director Dishell. As we go forward, I think
it's important to recognize that we don't currently own the right-of-way. And so as we look to assessing
the feasibility of bringing a project forward, those elements have yet to be considered. There's
opportunities. Most of you know that I do sit on the Front Range Passenger Rail Board as an ex-officio
member. So when we look at interpassenger rail, there could be an opportunity as we go forward.

So as we talk about what lies ahead, there are still a lot of different factors to be considered. And then to
the point that you raised, Director Dishell, as well, when you talked about the 300 plus, less than 400
participants, we are also leveraging other communication tactics as well when we go out to different
engagements by providing information relative to this project as well.
So I wanted to frame those comments in reference to the response. And I'm more than happy to yield the
floor to Mr. Stopplecamp, if you would like to add any more information. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair,
and thank you, Director Dishell, for the question.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, General Manager. I appreciate that. Yes, I wanted to point out too that
milestone four hasn't happened yet. And so we've got milestone three is what Director Dishell was
addressing there, which he, I think, did the math exactly right. But milestone four is an even broader
continuing outreach, some of which is effectuated by having this discussion tonight.
Mr. Stopplecamp, sir, would you like to comment at all relative to the question about diesel and expand
upon what General Manager/CEO Johnson has pointed out, that we're running on somebody else's track
right now, assuming we do this?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. Thank you very much. And great question. And I think everybody would
like to see a battery or overhead catenary on the corridor. We are running on the BNSF Railway, which
provides significant challenges with the overhead catenary.
The biggest one is the railroads require 23'6" clearance from the top of the rail to the bottom of any
obstruction so they can run a double stack through there. And I won't go into all details, but there's 16
bridges along the corridor that are right at the 23'6". So if we want to go over to catenary, we've got to
raise all 16 bridges plus put the wire out for the whole corridor.
Back in 2017, the question was, what can we do at the lowest cost to get service out there? Diesel's one.
The equipment does exist for diesel-- three trains in the morning, three trains in the afternoon. As we
build up, at that point then we look at, can we go overhead? Can we have a battery operated train? What
are the options? But that becomes a very expensive option. So we are looking at how we keep the price
down, provide service immediately, and then expand over time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Chair, just one clarifying question, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Please, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: So if we were to build it out, have peak service built all the way out, we would
effectively just be running diesel or hydrogen or CNG or [INAUDIBLE], whatever fuel you'd like to burn.
And we would no longer be using the electrified portion of B Line as it exists today. Is that-- or do the
trains have the ability to switch different fuels?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That's a great question. May I answer that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So we'd still run the service out to Westminster all day long, the B Line. So that
doesn't change. So the train's coming in on whatever power. It could be hydrogen. It could be battery,
could be diesel, whatever. Would then run underneath the catenary. There is equipment that can pop
onto the catenary.

It's twice as expensive as the regular, but that is an option. And they can drive or operate the equipment
under the wire into Denver Union Station on whatever power unit they're using at that time. So once
again, this is to get three trains in the morning and three in the afternoon and then expand the service
over the next multiple years.
And technology will change. We've seen it change over the last 10 years. There is a fleet that will work for
what we need it to do. And that was the number one challenge, to make sure we can identify some
equipment so there would be an option.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp. And thank you, Director Dishell, for the
questions. Let me turn next to our Vice Chair, Erik Davidson, before we recognize JoyAnn Ruscha,
Director, after Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Two comments and just a question. First of all, thank you very
much to everybody on staff who's been a part of this. We said at the very beginning that one of the main
objectives here was that common set of facts and also engaging with and not on behalf of the community.
And I think so far, that is going really, really well and has been received very well by the community. And
That is thanks to a lot of hard work by many folks at the agency. So thank you for doing that in earnest. I
think it makes a big difference when we're looking at something as challenging as this to be
communicative and open and collaborative. I also want to thank staff for the public outreach events. I
think those, too, that was actually a great place to physically see the cooperation.
For Directors or other folks who may not have been there, each boards were the boards that were
presented to the public showing various pieces of information were not just staffed by RTD, but staffed by
local staff in the respective cities. I think that's an impressive sign of the collaboration.
I will say, I know staff's many steps ahead of me on this, and from the conversations that I think there's an
opportunity to pick locations that are easier to get to via transit. I had some nice gentlemen come up to
me and just express that they don't own cars and it was difficult to come, but they wanted to weigh in on
those station locations and understand better.
So I simply will say, I'll offer, if there's any way at all that I can be helpful in terms of engagement with
these communities at the elected official level to help pick locations, I know that's a big challenge as part
of the collaboration, please let me know if I can be helpful.
Finally, one just question. I think this is probably to start, at least, with the General Manager and CEO.
Great update on the peak service plan. I think we need to focus on our plans and what we're developing
and our scenarios. That's great. At the risk of maybe getting us distracted, I just wanted to point out, Ms.
Johnson, you referenced being an ex-officio member on the Front Range Passenger Rail.
Right around the time we decided to proceed with this study, we signed a cooperation agreement and we
talked about the opportunities to compare operational models, to share information, and set ourselves up
for potential, for partnership discussions in the future.
To what extent, if any, and perhaps it's far too premature, given where front Range Passenger Rail is right
now, what is currently happening in terms of partnership, engagement, information sharing, at this stage
of our development of this peak service plan? Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: General Manager, if you have a response to that, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I do. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Vice Chair Davidson, for
the question.
So recognizing that we are a little bit ahead of Front Range Passenger Rail, needless to say that we have
representation on the work group from Andy Karsian, who serves as the General Manager of the Front
Range Passenger Rail. Needless to say, as well, there was a retreat that was held by the Front Range
Passenger Rail leadership that included Board members, and we've engaged on those fronts.
And then more specifically, to the point that you raised, we are not yet there in reference to sharing
information. They're still developing their service plan and are working with a consultant. But needless to
say that as we do this in tandem with the memorandum of understanding that we initiated back in the
latter part of 2021, recognizing that we would work in partnership, there is an opportunity as we go
forward.
The General Manager of Front Range Passenger Rail and I are trying to coordinate our schedules so we
can have a working discussion about how might that best be served as we proceed forward. So there will
be more information forthcoming, as I think it would be a great idea in the very near future for
representation to come from Front Range Passenger Rail to provide you with some understanding of
what that cooperation looks like.
And the Chair and I just spoke of that earlier today, as I shared with her that our schedules have yet to
align, being my peer at Front Range Passenger Rail. So stay tuned. And conversations have been had
not only with Front Range Passenger Rail, but at the state level, with special advisors that are working on
transportation issues for the state of Colorado and leveraging contacts as relates to garnering additional
information.
And then last but not least, as you were part of the Northwest commissioners' visit to Washington, DC-for those that aren't familiar, the Chair and Director Davidson and I, as well as Michael Davies, took part
in that, and just engaging with a multitude of different entities, including Amtrak, Federal Railroad
Administration, FTA, just to name a few-- recognizing that that was a subject matter that came up
repeatedly, recognizing my relationships, as well, to those entities that are being leveraged as we go
down this path to help along the Front Range Passenger Rail District.
So those are just some high level examples of the partnership that we are embarking upon. Thank you so
much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, General Manager. Anything further, Mr. Vice Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That answers it. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate the
additional comments and look forward to learning more information. And just once again, thanks. This is a
really tough project and the only way to take it is head on and honest about the hard facts. So thanks for
doing that. Appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's great. And I think we all look forward to the opportunity, at some point, of having
some direct communication with Front Range Passenger Rail representatives and the Board.

May I ask at this time, before I go to Director Ruscha, if we can take down the slide presentation. I think
we've been sufficiently thanked at this point. And now, if I can recognize Director Ruscha for your
question, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. My question is related to the scope of the study. So I might
need a quick refresh. Can someone-- and this is for anyone-- remind me if the Board will also, as part of
this feasibility study, get a sense of potential development that might occur if this were to be built out?
And I'm not talking about development that already occurred in anticipation of completing FasTracks, but
rather what future development, and if that is part of the study. And if so, at what point would the Board
get any more insight to that?
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Mr. Stopplecamp, do you want to lead off the response on that?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. Thank you. A great question. For the study, we are really focusing on the
three trains in the morning and three in the afternoon. We are working with the stakeholders for the
station locations. These stations were cleared back in 2010. And so the development around these
locations, we're really leaving it up to the communities to come back and explain what they would like to
see done at these locations.
We do not own the property. We own, in a couple locations we own some property but not necessarily all
the property around the station. So we are relying on the communities. We have teamed up with
Longmont at the end of line. So we've got the transit center that's going in there and the development. So
that's a multimillion investment for RTD right now.
And with that, I see Bill Sirois has shown himself up there. He has, as you know, leads the TransitOriented Communities, can answer a few more on this. But the study is really to identify the corridor. And
then we bring all that information back to the Board upon completion of the study. Mr. Sirois, would you
like to add anything else to that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, Mr. Stopplecamp, I saw Mr. Sirois' face light up the screen and I thought he
might have some further comment. So Mr. Sirois, you are recognized.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair. And just to note, we and my staff, and Chessy Brady and I have had
conversations with the consultant team about how they're evaluating development opportunities. I think
one of the things that we'll add to this conversation is our experience that we've had over the last 20-plus
years in terms of what we've seen in other parts of the area and what we've seen even already along this
corridor and how that may influence any projections that we look at as part of this effort. So we'll adding
our own two cents into this analysis as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that supplemental response.
And now let me turn to Chair Guissinger. You have a question for the group.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Or actually just a comment, a couple of comments. I appreciated Director Dishell's
question about the small input, but I do think there's a lot of other input. And unless I missed it, this may
have been mentioned, but there is an ongoing advisory committee, m I understand it-- is that correct,
Patrick-- that is all the local governments, where their staff and elected officials are weighing in and
talking to their constituents as well. So this was only one piece of the information that's coming in.

I had the opportunity to meet with Andy Karsian yesterday. And I think that they are, Front Range
Passenger Rail Manager, and I think that he and others, the administration, are very much looking
forward to working with RTD. He hasn't had the chance. As Debra said, their schedules are crazy so they
haven't been able to get together. But I think that is the next step for both of them.
They will be looking, as you know, with the land use bill coming up, TOD is top of mind for the
administration, and I think therefore, for Front Range Passenger Rail. So they will be looking at that as
well. And I talked to Andy about coming to update the Board, and he's excited to do that. So we will have
that on deck soon. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We appreciate your input on that, as well, and
sharing that information with us. Are there other Directors, members of the committee or otherwise, who
have questions or comments that they wish to make now relative to the Northwest Rail Peak Service
Feasibility Study update?
Patrick-- well, Mr. Stanley, let me recognize Director Guzman first, as a member of the committee, if I
may, and then I'll come back to you. Or you may be responding to something that he's going to ask. So
Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hi, everybody. I just wanted to say thank you to everybody that's done a lot of work
on this and all of the involvement you've gotten from the community. I'm excited to be able to help in any
way that I can as well. And I'm really engaged with the upcoming meetings. And so I want to push those
and make sure that we get involvement.
Obviously, everything leaves from Union Station in Denver and heads out that way. And so there's some
opportunities there to engage people that are living in Denver, working in Boulder. And I've been in
conversation with a few of them. So just keep up the good work. And I'm paying attention and I'm
listening, but I just want you to know that I'm here and I hear what's going on. So thank you for this report.
It's really impressive. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. We appreciate your participation in this as
well. Mr. Stanley, did you have anything to close out with, or further comments?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to recognize the efforts of our consultant team. We
didn't mention through the presentation, but our HDR consultant team has done a fantastic job with
setting us up to get to this point. I didn't want to sit here and take all the credit as staff for the effort that's
been done here. So I just wanted to recognize the HDR team.
And I want to recognize really all of our team members as well. They really, really helped us, helped the
study out. As Director Davidson talked about, they were manning all of their own boards, with each one of
their communities, and I think it really shows the commitment from the jurisdictions and the stakeholders
in the Northwest area to this project as well. So that was all I had.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that, because it prompts me to mention something else in terms of
appreciation. Former RTD Director Judy Lubow was a strong voice and advocate for all of this regarding
the Northwest Rail and the feasibility study that we're looking now and addressing peak rail service. And
she and I drafted and then we ultimately had adopted by the Board a resolution regarding the same
several years ago, while she was still on the Board. So a lot of people for a long time have put energy into
this.

All right, Director Guzman, I note that your hand is still up, but that may be out of inertia rather than
intention. So I just ask, do you have any further comments, Director Guzman, that you wish to share with
us at this time?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, sorry. I forgot to put my hand down.
DOUG TISDALE: That's OK. Thank you very much. All right. Nothing else further on this agenda item.
Then the next agenda item that we have is the system-wide fare study and equity analysis and the
preliminary Title VI analysis materials for public review.
And at this time, I would like to welcome back to the microphone Bill Sirois, our Senior Manager of
Transit-Oriented Communities, and Chris Quinn, the Planning Project Manager, and once again, Carl
Green, Jr., our Director of Civil Rights, to present on this item. Mr. Sirois, I think I'll turn it over to you first,
sir.
BILL SIROIS: Yes, thank you, Chair. And give me a second while I pull up the presentation so that we
can get started here. OK. Is it showing up on everybody's screen?
DOUG TISDALE: It is showing up, sir. Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: OK. Well, again, thank you very much. And we are excited to be here, because we are at a
major milestone event in terms of going out to the public with our draft recommendations. So we were
here tonight to kind of share with you the information about the process, and particularly Carl Green, Jr.,
Director of Civil Rights, will be going over the background and Title VI in terms of policies and FDA
requirements, and then the preliminary analysis that we've done on the draft recommendations, which,
again, is new and important information to share tonight.
We'll also be talking about the upcoming process, which I'm excited to say we're going to be very busy
over the next two months in terms of going out and getting the information out about these
recommendations. We've got a lot of events, which I'll talk about, and maybe opportunities for Board
members, if they so choose, to volunteer to come out and help us out.
So with that, what we want to do tonight, we'll reiterate some of the information that we've obviously
shared with you before in terms of the study goals, the proposed changes, which we went over in
February, and then I'll turn it over to Mr. Green who will talk about the requirements under Title VI and the
various policies and then ultimately the recommendations.
And then lastly, I'll talk about the next steps with regards to the outreach that we're planning on doing, as
well as talk a little bit about, we did receive some comments from the Board after the February
presentation. So I'll just kind of highlight those real briefly and then open it up for any questions.
So just to reiterate, I think we've talked about this every time we've talked with the Board and every time
we go out to the public. We have three primary goals that we've identified. And these are really goals that
we've, again, driven by what we've heard from our customers and the community in terms of our focus on
people who rely on us the most and putting equity up front as part of this process.
Also, looking, we've heard a lot from people about the affordability of our fares, as well as how
complicated they are. So we wanted to make sure these goals up front serve to guide us throughout this
process. And I think they've really have done well in doing that in terms of where we're at with the
recommendations. So just as a reminder, we presented this information last time in February, but we are

going with a recommendation that kind of is a blending of some of the information, or some of the
alternatives that we discussed in the fall.
On the left hand side of this graphic, you can see the current fare structure, and then on the right, kind of
the proposed draft. You can see we're consolidating the local and regional categories into a standard fare
category and then keeping an airport fare category, having a greatly reduced monthly pass rate, which,
again, rewarding those local customers, and then having a single discount in terms of a one price for our
discount users, which is a great option for that.
Also, on the airport side, just a few things to note. We did talk about this last time as well, where, again,
we are very focused on the employees at the airport. We've heard a lot about the affordability from the
employee perspective. And again, we are focused on that with that monthly pass, and you can see the
dramatic decrease that we are proposing with this proposal.
We did keep the base fare relatively close to what it is. We did raise it some. But again, that is because of
some feedback we did hear through our process that those occasional users that do use it think that
$10.50 is reasonable. So we're excited about that.
Then lastly, if we go to the Access-A-Ride fares, you can see we're consistent with how we approached
our other fare categories. We are, again, consolidating local and regional, lowering fares some. And the
exciting part here is introducing LiVE discount as an option for those Access-A-Ride users. Again, they
currently do not have that option and we are proposing to allow them to have that option in the future.
And we don't have any slides on the other programs, which we went over in a fair amount of detail last
time. But it is in your packet, so we are happy to answer any information about anything like the zero fare
for youth pilot and other things. But those have not changed from what we present in February. So with
that, I am going to turn the mic over to Mr. Carl Green, Jr., Director of Civil Rights, to kind of go over the
next few slides.
CARL GREEN, JR..: Thank you so much, teammate. So again, as Bill mentioned, my name is Carl Green
Jr., Director of the Civil Rights Division, and I'll be going over the FTA requirements as it relates to the
fare changes. So first, I just wanted to take a moment and just thinking about, to Bill's point, how excited
we are to be being able to deliver this presentation tonight, as we think about how far we've came and
where we were a year to this date, where this project really started in earnest April of last year.
And what I can say with respect to the FTA requirements, specifically for Title VI, when you think about
equity and all of the different checkpoints or checkpoints along the way to ensure that we lead with equity,
from doing an assessment of the two conceptual alternatives, to getting to the point of the final
recommended alternative, where tonight it's really about going over a broad stroke overview of the draft
Title VI analysis.
And based on the requirements as set forth by the Federal Transit Administration, prior to adopting a fare
change, RTD must conduct a fare equity analysis and analyze the proposed fare changes. And prior to
implementing these changes, the RTD Board of Directors must be made aware and approve of the equity
analysis before we move forward.
And what I also would like to highlight is the fact that we took a concerted effort to ensure, as we look at
this overall system-wide fare structure changes and pass programs, we definitely led with equity. Next
slide. So the authority that sets the legal precedent is, again, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. And

by virtue of the FTA Circular, it provides the directives to ensure that transit agencies are upholding the
assurances under Title VI. And a key evaluation tool is the fare equity analysis. Next slide.
So what this slide here provides is a overview of the decision making process as it relates to equity
analysis, where for both for fare changes and for major service changes, and specifically as it relates to
fare changes, whether it's an increase, a decrease, a change in fare payment, and different other
changes, where step one is really about evaluating those changes.
And if there are a change that bears, then we move to step two, which is really about evaluating the
possible impacts on minority populations, which we deem as a disparate impact or in accordance with our
disparate impact policy. And then we also look at impacts to low income populations, which is defined as
at or below 150% of the federal poverty level, which comports with our disproportionate burden policy.
And from here on out, you'll probably hear me say at Title VI populations or equity populations, but I just
wanted to call out, that's really signifying minority, BIPOC, and low income population.
And then based off of step two of evaluating these possible impacts, if there are any potential adverse or
negative impacts on these populations, we move to looking at evaluating alternatives to either minimize,
mitigate, or avoid those impacts. And then we take a concerted effort to change course or address it. Next
slide. Oops, previous slide.
So as I mentioned before, the Board of Directors adopted the Title VI policies concurrent with the
adoption of the 2022 Title VI program update, which was presented to the Board back in June of last
year. And these policies are outlined in the Board report. But I just wanted to highlight here that these
policies were in fact adopted by the RTD Board of Directors. Next slide.
So at a high level, RTD's determination of a disparate impact or disproportionate burden, which I'll refer to
as DI or DB, is based on the difference of impacts experienced by minority and low income persons as a
result of any fare price change or the average of multiple fare changes compared to the impacts
experienced by the overall ridership. And the established threshold that we set forth is that the changes
should not be greater than or less than 5% of the impacts absorbed by the overall ridership.
And as a spoiler alert, on the second point here, for the fare change results, it did this by doing this draft
analysis and looking at the suite of changes that we're recommending, it did not result in a DI on minority
customers nor a disproportionate burden, or DB, on low income customers. Next slide.
So just for example's sake, just to walk the Board of Directors through an average fare analysis example.
As I mentioned before, there's a threshold established to evaluate the possible impacts. And as what you
can see here, specifically on the disparate impact, you can see that there is a yes. And I just wanted to
highlight here, this is just for example or illustrative purposes is just to make note.
If we're looking at the absolute change, percentage change Comparing minority customers versus overall
customers, you can see that there was a proposed increase in the average fare by minority customers at
25%, whereas the increase for overall customers is 19%. So doing the math there, just the absolute
percent change, it's 6%, so it exceeds that 5% threshold, which could indicate there's a potential impact
that they're receiving more of the fare increase.
Whereas we look at the image on the far right, for disproportionate burden, it's a no, where we can
compare the difference for our low income is 22%, compared to the overall customers is 19%. So the
delta between those two is 3%, which is well below that 5% threshold. So just for the purpose of this

example, I just wanted to walk y'all through of what-- there's a lot of technical analyses involved in this,
but this is just a educational reference of how we conduct the analysis. Next slide.
So just to give y'all an overview of the methodology, so a fare equity analysis compares the current to the
proposed fare. And again, here we calculate the absolute as well as the percent change. And the average
fare analysis is utilized to assess the effects of the proposed fare changes on the average fare paid per
boarding by minority or low income customers compared to overall customers.
And what is used in the average fare analysis, or the AFA, is survey data, specifically our customer
satisfaction survey, to assess, to garner data on transfer and fare product usage rates, as well as
customer demographics, while ticket sales and revenue data captures ridership by fare payment type.
So utilizing the DI and DB threshold, a determination is made whether the fare change would result in
adverse impacts on these populations, whether it's minority or low income. And more or less this average
fare analysis allows us to be able to better understand what are the nature of impacts to these
populations. Next slide.
So now I'll be getting into the draft analysis of the proposed fare changes. And specifically, I wanted to
highlight for the draft fare equity analysis that was conducted, it includes the fare restructuring, so
specifically the elimination of all regional fare products and the acceptance of local fare products on
regional services, as well as the price reduction, the introduction of fare capping, the expansion of
eligibility for RTD's low income fare discount program. And as a reminder, the intent of this analysis is,
again, to prevent inequitable changes from being implemented.
And I also wanted to mention that although fare changes to Access-A-Ride services and the Transit
Assistance Grant program, the Semester Pass and other programs weren't necessarily included, it does
overall, when we think about the equity component, it does complement the overall draft recommendation
and is truly centered on equity populations. Next slide.
So as I mentioned before, the spoiler alert as far as the results, so specifically looking at the DI impacts,
comparing minority versus overall customers, you can see that there is a 25% decrease in the average
fare compared to minority customers, who experience a 23% decrease in the average fare. And
specifically, what I wanted y'all to really take a look at, as far as the graph of the table here, is looking at
the proposed average fare, where it's $1.05 for overall customers, compared to $0.97 for the proposed
average fare for minority customers.
And doing the math there, the absolute percentage change, it's only 2.3%, which is below that 5%
threshold. So the end result there is no disparate impact on minority customers. Next slide. So similar to
the previous one, just really getting into it, looking at the proposed average fare and looking at or the
overall change in average fare is -25.4% compared to the -22%, where the delta between those is 3.4%.
So again here, it's below that 5% disproportionate burden threshold, so there is no impact on low income
customers. Next slide. So the draft fare equity analysis findings. So the analysis did not identify any
burdens on minority or low income customers. However, it did help identify targeted areas for further
improvement. One specifically is expanded access to MyRide retail opportunities.
So as we think about fare capping and folks being able to really benefit from this is having an expanded
retail network, so they can load value onto their cards and utilize it as a point of sale to be able to take
advantage of the fare capping. The second one is increase outreach activities to promote the LiVE

program, and which includes partnerships with community partners. Specifically, I wanted to highlight that
we just completed today was our 2024 to 2026 draft communications and outreach program.
We heard a lot from our customers that there is a lack of awareness and there's a need for more
education as it relates to this program. So we put together a document, with support from Finance,
Market Development, our Transit Equity Office, and also our Communications team to build out a plan
that we could then put out to the community for their feedback on what additional efforts or improvements
can we make to this overall plan to make sure that we lead with ensuring that we're promoting access to
our LiVE program and the expansiveness that we're moving forward with.
So second bullet point, the average fare paid by minority and low income customers remains lower than
the system-wide average fare. So that's one thing that I wanted to highlight. If you look at the system-wide
average fare, the minority and low income customers ultimately pay lower than that average fare. And
then lastly, I just wanted to highlight for Title VI populations across all fare types experience a decrease in
the average fare except for low income customers in the Neighborhood EcoPass program.
So one thing I'll highlight before I pass it over to Bill is just thinking about the average fare analysis for low
income and Eco customers, they are anticipated to benefit less than the overall population. However, it's
important to remember that all utilization across all customer segments or populations, whether that be
minority, non-minority, low income, and non-low income, it's aggregated together when we think about the
overall customer.
So overall, if you think about the households in the same neighborhood, they're paying the identical
amount. So this denotes that low income customers are not inherently-- and a verbiage that we tend to
use is better off or worse off-- but for this particular point, I just wanted to mention that low income
customers are not inherently worse off with the result of this analysis. With that being said, I'll now pass it
back over to Bill Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Carl. Yeah. I'll just talk a little bit about that public outreach and engagement.
Just starting off and just in terms of the efforts that we've done to date and really focusing and being a
customer and community driven process. We have really done some things throughout this effort that
have kind of been unprecedented at the agency in terms of focusing things on working with our
community-based organizations and expanding our outreach that way, focusing on our language access,
focusing on a lot of things, again, trying to hit some of those disadvantaged populations and
underrepresented populations.
And I think the other piece to this is that we have also used our traditional partners, in terms of our
jurisdictional staff, our people that are involved with our pass programs, and some of our people that do
represent our equity populations to really help us take some of the feedback that we have gotten
throughout this process to help mold that into the recommendations that we do have. And they did really
help us in that process and through those meetings that we had with them throughout the study. I think
they're a great benefit. And we look forward to this as being a potential model for the future of future
efforts.
So just a reminder, in terms of the outreach that we've done thus far, like Carl said, we started back in
April and focused initially on getting feedback on the current system, using a variety of means, some of
which I just identified, and in addition to that, doing an online survey. Again, got good results from that.
Then over the summer, we were focusing on conceptual fare options.

And then in the fall, we did focus on some detailed alternatives for consideration. And I think we went
over that in a fair amount of, a great amount of detail at the last time we talked to you in February. And
again, very, very extensive outreach effort on that one, in terms of the online survey and all the other
efforts, all the other types of techniques that we utilize.
So in terms of where we're going, some of the next steps. I'm excited to talk about this. We're going to be
releasing this for public comment later this month. The exciting piece of news is we are going to have a
press release later this week which is going to kind of start the public engagement process. We will be
launching our new website, or a refined website, I should say, so to speak, that will give people a lot of
information to provide their input to the recommended alternatives. So look for that later this week.
Also, some news in terms of even updating this slide. These are moved around a little bit. We do have
actually six public hearings identified. There's going to be four virtual hearings. And these dates are
slightly off, because we updated them last week. So we're going to be meeting on the 2nd and 3rd, and
the meeting on the 2nd will be in Spanish. And then we'll have two meetings on the 16th, both at kind of,
we'll say a little bit odd times in the morning and at lunchtime. One of those will be in Spanish.
And then we will be having in-person public hearings, the first time for this process to have in-person
public hearings. So we've got two of those, on May 11 and May 17. And those will be central locations.
One will be at the Alliance Center, which is just a few blocks from our offices at Blake Street. And the
other will be at the Carla Madison Rec Center there along Colfax near York.
So we're excited about those. And those are some of our traditional outreach tools with the public
hearings. We'll be doing presentations and getting feedback throughout that process. We have a variety
of other events, and I'm excited to talk about the pop-up events. We have, I believe, 18 to20 events
identified that are going to be happening throughout, through the end of April and on through the first
three weeks of May.
We will be going out to festivals and cultural events and having booths available to provide information to
people. We'll be at events like Cinco de Mayo. And I think it's going to-- and I may be getting this wrongthe Viva The Streets, which is a new event, and a few other events throughout the Metro area. And again,
we're very being very purposeful in trying to have good geographic coverage in these events.
In addition to that, we will be going to several stations and stops along our bus and rail network. And we
will be trying to identify, be there during commuting times to get our customers and intercept them as
they're waiting for their train or bus to hopefully get some of their input and feedback and direct them to
the website.
And this is going to be a great opportunity. If Board members are interested in coming out to us with early
in the morning or on a Saturday, you certainly will have the opportunity. We going to be sharing this
information with the Board Office and we will have a potential sign-up for any Board members who are
interested. Like I said, we're going to be having events through the end of month, through the end of April
and throughout most of the month of May.
I mentioned the website, which is going to be launching at the end of the week. We do have, like Carl
mentioned earlier, we do have, working with our community-based organizations and we've been giving
them up to speed on the information that we want them to share with their communities that they serve.
They will also be helping us to recruit for people to come to our public hearings. So we're using them for
that as well.

We also are working with some of our other community partners and working with Michael Davies, our
Government Relations Officer, and his folks at Catalyst to help identify opportunities for us to go and talk
to some of the stakeholders. We currently have a couple of opportunities identified. I think we're speaking
to the Denver City Council committee, as well as the Aurora, Aurora's City Council later in May. And we
have our opportunities.
And then there's opportunities here for Board members as you are out and talking with the groups that
you speak to on a regular basis. We have information that we can provide you in terms of speaking
points, slides, or other things that we can provide to help you disseminate some of this information and,
again, directing people to the website, to getting a good feedback as we go through this process.
We are finally, but not last but not least, we do have a series of opportunities that we're talking to our own
staff through our normal Facts and Snacks and other options that we're going to be doing. So we'll be
doing that as well.
So the last thing I wanted to cover, just before we open it up for questions, is we did receive comments
and questions from Board members after our last presentation. We did include those in the packet, along
with our responses to some of the questions and comments. So please note that. Again, none of the
comments that we received we felt materially affected things in terms of putting us on a new course in
terms of the alternatives.
So we are, again, focusing on moving forward with what we presented in February and again today in
terms of the recommendations for moving forward with this study. So with that, I will open it up for
questions. And I will turn off the screen share, since we saw enough of the thank you slide the last time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Mr. Sirois. We now invite Directors, members
of the committee or otherwise, to raise questions or offer comments relative to the presentation that we
have received. We will begin with Director Broom. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. One of the routes that's going to get the most benefit from these
proposed changes is going to be the airport, or the A Line. Is there going to be a special effort to get that
information out to the people that use the A Line or who work at the businesses along the A Line? For
example, putting some fliers on the trains. Thanks.
BILL SIROIS: Chair, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Yes, if you may, Mr. Sirois, please.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. And we have been working very closely with a group of stakeholders at the airport that
represent concessionaires and other businesses and the unions at the airport. And we're actually having
a meeting with them at the end of the month to go over the recommendations.
And they did have a fair amount of influence on the recommendations themselves. We did have some
meetings with them earlier in the process. We also do have some events scheduled along the A Line, I
believe, and so we'll be providing input to our information to our customers through that vehicle as well.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you very much. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized at this time, sir.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. I just [INAUDIBLE] back. This is awesome. I hope the team is
having fun with this. This is really, really, really great, really encouraging, really exciting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Director Ruscha, you are recognized, please, ma'am.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I actually had a follow-up to my question that was somewhat
addressed in the packet. Would this be the appropriate time to ask it?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director, this is.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. So the question I had asked was about Access-A-Ride. So before
the Board, I believe, will be a proposal to include Access-A-Ride into low income fares, which I am very
excited about. And excluding Access-A-Ride users might be an ADA violation. So it's good that we are
correcting this.
But my concern was that if we do this, it looks like we will have to wait until January 1 of next year, when
the other changes go into the effect, assuming the Board votes for them. And so the response I got from
staff was that OIT had said it would take about eight months to implement changes through a Peak
system.
My question is, did we specifically reach out to OIT and ask about including Access-A-Ride,
understanding that might actually be a different timeline, particularly considering that many of our
paratransit users are already Peak members?
DOUG TISDALE: And I think Mr. Sorois is prepared with an answer to that question.
BILL SIROIS: Well, I might choose a lifeline. I'm going to see if I can get-- I might defer that for a second,
because I know that Monika Treipl-Harnke, who's on at the meeting, I know, is the best person to answer
that question. So I will, if you give me a second, hopefully I'll get an answer from her before we're done. I
will hopefully get it. If not, I will follow up after the meeting with an answer to that question specifically.
DOUG TISDALE: And I will point out, Mr. Sirois, that in any event, my understanding is that we are not
talking about implementing all of the changes as of the time that we adopt it, but rather that everything
would roll in as of January 1, or sometime in the first quarter, so that changes that impact the discounts,
the LiVE program, persons with disabilities, Medicaid, and the age advantaged population, the 65 and
overs, would all go in together.
But I wonder if General Manager/CEO Johnson wants to opine on that, in case I may have misspoken,
too. So General Manager, you are recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, sir. And I did just want to qualify that we are looking at
the pilot program for youth fares and recognizing when the academic school year starts, we would be at a
disadvantage talking about January. But that will be up for the Board to decide as we go forward. So I just
wanted to qualify that as well.
And then as we talked about, Director Ruscha made a comment saying that we could have been violating
the American with Disabilities Act, recognizing the mandated American with Disabilities Acts, as it relates
to fare, requires that we provide half of the fare that goes forward. So there was no violation of the ADA
relative to what our fare structure, as specified.

And I see Mr. Green is nodding as well. But I just wanted to clarify that for the record, if anyone's left with
the impression that we were in violation of the American with Disabilities Acts of 1990, because this
organization was not, pursuant to fares. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much. Director Ruscha, did you want to comment further?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, thank you, just briefly. What is or isn't legal sometimes is just what's litigated,
and I think there are enough lawyers here to know that. But also what is legal is not necessarily what is
just. MTA is actually being sued for this very thing. And there is some FTA guidance regarding universal
discounts and when they would apply to paratransit.
But I also do want to recognize that our GM/CEO is in favor of including Access-A-Ride into the low
income fares discount. And so I also just want to state for the record that I truly appreciate that and her
leadership. That's incredibly important to the community and I think for this Board to recognize as well.
And those are all the comments I have. And I appreciate all the staff's work on this as well. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Mr. Sirois, your hand is up now. So maybe you want to
finish out on this particular topic.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I did get my lifeline from Ms. Treipl-Harnke. So she did say
that we have not reached out to the state yet. But I think, answering the question that you initially wrote,
Director Ruscha, I think the point was it's a long lead time with the state in order to get the permit
programming into the Peak system. So we are going to be working with that diligently over the course of
the next few months to get that in and to work with them so that we can implement that as soon as
possible.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. We appreciate your supplemental information there.
Director Dishell, you are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I just wanted to take a moment to express gratitude to General
Manager/CEO, Bill Sirois, the entire team who's been working on this. For those of you who've been on
the Board, kids and their ability to get to school, or wherever they choose to go, is really critical. And your
willingness to put a number out there, which I think is an attainable number, to look at starting with the
actual school year as opposed to the calendar year, it really, it's great.
I'm looking forward to working in partnership to be able to secure and identify that funding on a more
sustainable basis. And just really great to see that we are making policies that fit and align with the
communities we're serving and to [INAUDIBLE] those communities we're serving. So thank you all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you that. Those are good comments and observations to be shared with all. And
I appreciate that. I will note one thing that stands out in my mind about all of this is that our discount fare,
as we are proposing it, is for what I call the age advantaged community-- that's 65 plus-- as well as the
Medicare population, as well as people with disabilities, and our LiVE customers-- and that we have now
proposed increasing the availability of that LiVE discount significantly to get even more people who can
qualify for that.
You should note that the age advantaged population, those 65 and olders, that represents about 34% of
the population of the Regional Transportation District. I refer you back to packet page 42 and the CU
Leeds presentation that we had. So the discount eligible population consists of those age advantaged

folks, plus the other groups that I've mentioned, Medicare, people with disabilities, and the increased
eligible for the LiVE program.
Pretty soon, we're within striking distance of 50% of the District's population that will enjoy these
discounts. And it does warrant repeating that we take a current, for example, airport fare of $5.25. And for
this group that I've just described, we reduce it to $1.35. That's pretty significant.
And then the monthly pass for this group, the discounted travelers, goes from approximately $100 to $27.
So I think this is something about which we should brag a lot and share with people. And I think that
among other populations that we can communicate with, and the CBOs, we can talk to our Chambers of
Commerce and let them know so that they can spread that word as well.
Are there others who have comments, perhaps based upon anything that I've said, who would like to
chime in at this time? If not, Then Mr. Sirois, do you have any words of wrap-up, or does this conclude
your presentation relative to the fare equity analysis that we've discussed?
BILL SIROIS: I see our General Manager's hand's raised, so I will defer to her.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't-- I missed that. Thank you very much. Sharp eyes. Younger eyes.
All right, General Manager/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And I just wanted to take this opportunity to publicly
recognize the members of this team. When we had discussions, recognizing when I first came into the
organization and I talked about the opportunities, this team leaned into the moment. They had creative
suggestions.
I also want to specifically commend Carl in reference to his experience and expertise in the equity realm,
due to the fact that previously we did not have that level of expertise relative to fare studies and equity
analyses, and recognizing that he was able to leverage his experience garnered from a different transit
agency and bring it full forward, especially leveraging the extensive outreach with community-based
organizations. I think that's made a difference. And I am extremely proud to be a member of their team
and I wanted to publicly acknowledge that.
So kudos all around. And there's been others, like Monika. There's other people, and I don't want to be
remiss in not acknowledging them as well. But talking about what we can do and ensuring that they knew
that they were supported, this clearly is an example of what we can do when we come together as one
RTD. So thank you very kindly, team.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate your sharing those words of commendation to all. They are well
deserved. One thing I note, there was in the Board packet, at page 164 of the Board packet, an outline of
timeline, next steps, that differs a little bit from the presentation we received. And one of the things that is
identified is Board authorization to release proposed fare structure draft fare equity analysis. For all
practical purposes we've done that by discussing it tonight, of course.
But this is not here as an action item but rather as an information item. I do suggest, however, to the
extent that staff would like this, and I'll look to Mr. Sirois, that the Board would be in a position, the
committee would be in a position at this time to give a head nod to go forward, and that the full Board
could ratify that head nod to proceed with the release of all such information to the public. So, Mr. Sirois,
do you have a thought on that, sir?

BILL SIROIS: You know, Chair, I think it's fully up to you all if you want to do that. And I see General
Manager Johnson has her hand up. She may have a comment on this as well.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. General Manager/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, sir, for the opportunity to opine. So for all intents and
purposes, as it relates to the information we've been providing, this really was to apprise you all as we
release it to the public, recognizing that we need to garner feedback from them and then bring forward
back something for your action, for all intents and purposes.
So as we talked about that, that really-- and I'll assume responsibility-- I think the word was used
inappropriately, but we wanted to ensure that you all knew what was going to the public, coming full
circle. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, I appreciate that. And as I say, in any event, because it's been appended
to our materials for this meeting, it certainly does constitute a release of such information to the public.
And we all want to champion and celebrate this proposal as much as possible to get buy in. It would be
nice to get some good press on something as good as this. Just a thought.
All right. Are there any other comments relative to this item before I move on to Other Matters? Seeing
none, we are now at the next portion of our agenda, which is Other Matters. And that leaves us an
opportunity to discuss matters that have not been included on the agenda this evening but should
properly be brought before the Finance and Planning Committee. And it's my distinct pleasure to
recognize at this time our Vice Chair, Erik Davidson. Mr. Vice Chair, you have the floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I know we're getting a little late, so I'll try to keep this brief. I just
wanted to take a moment to recap some of the discussion that occurred recently at the Board retreat as it
relates to potential financial policy and focus. Recognizing we had General Counsel Snyder and CEO and
General Manager Johnson there, but not our Finance team.
So for Mr. MacLeod and his team, I just wanted to do-- and for committee members here, as a reminder-some of the takeaways we had from the retreat. And then I think as the year unfolds, we can start to
tackle some of these items as discussion items or those that lend themselves to this.
At the Board retreat, we discussed a high priority for the Board to what we called create a long-term and
resilient funding model for RTD. This has already come up this evening, the idea of looking at some
potential alternative funding models. We brainstormed some ideas of what might come out of this.
Ultimately, what I would like to see, or would encourage committee members and the Board to do, is to
identify specific policies we can make at a very high level to enable staff to really get creative and think of
some ideas, and then ultimately Board and staff to partner together for whatever needs to be done to
revisit this model.
So some of the specific bullet points we talked about, I'll just go through them very quickly-- and to
Finance staff, I'll certainly make myself available to talk through some of these. Some of these may not be
relevant or helpful. Some might be. Some might be missing. I just would like to express that desire to
really partner on this.
One bullet we talked about was potentially benchmarking our funding model against our true peers in
terms of transit agencies. Perhaps this has been done before and we may have some models and may

have some internal knowledge about this. But having some benchmark and making those available would
help us communicate, I think, to our public and potential private partners, especially notably, the state in
terms of where our funding model rests as compared to peer agencies.
Another bullet we discussed was to review previous and/or existing RTD reports on the matter of revenue
diversification. I'm familiar with at least one such report that had been done in recent years of looking at
opportunities to diversify revenue. It's probably worth dusting those off and making sure we're all familiar.
We also had a bullet where we just said we need to brainstorm and research potential alternative sources
of funding. This can include things like fees, public funding sources, cities and counties, the state, school
districts, as we're talking about the youth fare number. And thank you, Director Dishell, for calling out the
willingness of staff to put forward a number on that. I also greatly appreciate that.
Private funding source opportunities, being arts organizations, sports organizations, ticket vendors,
foundational funding, other advertising opportunities, should they exist on digital medium, and out-of-thebox thinking-- so we just had a discussion around, we don't know what we don't know. But it would be
nice to set some policy and really enable staff to think through this and present some ideas.
Related to those was also making sure that we garner a full understanding of the extent of our jurisdiction
as a special district, in terms of what we can and cannot do in terms of levying fees. Another bullet we
discussed was considering opportunities to strengthen our mid- and long-term financial position,
leveraging any creative ideas that the Finance team might have.
This is where I think many kudos to our team last year for identifying tremendous opportunities for
refinance. I understand there may be some more creative opportunities. And I think what I was hearing at
the Board retreat is that this Board is very open to supporting creative opportunities to ensure that our
finances are sound for years to come.
Finally, we did have some discussion around TABOR. And we discussed that there were really two major
things here. One was that this Board does, at some point, need to take formal action on a position on
TABOR and how RTD would like to proceed. I think the term de-Brucing has been brought up a number
of times, but the Board hasn't taken a formal position. So the need to do so is one thing that came up.
And furthermore, the need to formally create research and put forward to the Board the feasibility of
various TABOR impact mitigation strategies, which, of course, could include de-Brucing, but also might
include other solutions to chip away at this. Enterprise funds have been discussed. Extending the
exemption via a refinance of some of our bonds has been discussed. Any of these ideas we had brought
up.
I did have a chance to confer with ad hoc committee member on the TABOR committee Director Ruscha.
I have not had a chance to do so with Director Broom. I'll open up the floor, if either of them would like to
make a comment about the potential idea that the TABOR ad hoc committee could engage with staff on
these TABOR-specific items and come forward to the Finance and Planning Committee in order to bring
forward what could become recommended actions that could come through Finance and Planning to the
Board, such as a formal position on TABOR.
Finally, we just expressed our interest as a Board to be able to collaborate with Government Relations
and our General Manager on anything that we can be helpful on on pursuing any type of opportunities in
these areas. So I realize it was a lot of bullets. Again, I'll make myself available to staff. And ultimately,

what I'd encouraged this committee to do, and I will help lead this effort, is to develop some specific
policies at that high level that can be used to identify these opportunities and take advantage of them as
we plan for our financial future.
So thank you. I'm happy to field any questions that staff may have. I think, Chair, you had a suggestion,
which was a great one, that Directors could potentially submit comments in writing. And then also, of
course, I'd be remiss if I didn't say to our ad hoc TABOR committee members, if there's any comments
they'd like to make, please do so. But thank you for the time. I very much appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Vice Chair. And I'm going to call upon Director Ruscha first, if she has a
comment, and Director Broom, if Director Broom would like to weigh on this as well.
I will note one thing that we discussed that I didn't hear in your enumeration there, that I want to make
sure we keep sight of, and that is to take advantage of the opportunities that the legislature accorded us
when they amended the RTD Act so as to allow for other development at transit-oriented development
sites at our stations and lifting some of the restrictions on us relative to that and parking.
Because those are streams of revenue that are very valuable and need to be a part of the discussion.
Having said that, let me turn first to Director Ruscha, because I see that she is unmuted. And would you
like to add something now, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I think that Director Davidson captured our conversation
accurately. And I would just add, or emphasize, that I believe that there is a great opportunity for the ad
hoc committee to collaborate with this committee and there's a lot of work to be done.
It is also at the purview of our Chair of the Board, Chair Guissinger, so I don't want to overstep or cruise in
her lane. But I did like the idea that perhaps we do a little bit more work, get some updated data, and
bring it back to this committee so that this committee can take that into consideration with other
projections and ideas.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate that. That's great. And let me ask Director Broom of the TABOR
Committee if he has anything to add here. Director Broom and I are probably the only people who actually
knew Horace TABOR back in the day. We're old enough. So Director Broom, did you have anything that
you wanted to add?
BOB BROOM: Just to reiterate that it's important that the Board discuss this issue, determine if the Board
is willing to mess with TABOR. And so it'd be foolish to go through a big long study and come up with
recommendations if the Board is adamant that they don't want to stir up the water. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And Chair Guissinger, your thoughts, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Just to reassure that no one's in my lane, but thank you for
raising that. I really appreciate, I'll start with Erik, with Second Vice Chair Davidson, that moving this
forward, one of the things I think we're all committed to is moving forward the policies that we discussed
and the actions that came out of the retreat.
And I've been working on that some, will be talking to various others of you. But I do think that moving
forward with the TABOR ad hoc committee at this point to start to bring some information together and
back to this committee. And one thing we want to do, and I think General Counsel would probably be very

helpful to this, and Mr. MacLeod too, is get everybody up to speed on what the issue is and what it could
mean for RTD.
So I think that would be a next step. But yeah, let's get the ad hoc committee together again. And may
make sense to add another person or two to it so we have more of a committee and move it forward.
Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, I think a TABOR tutorial would be appreciated by a
number of the Directors who have not had to have any interaction with that before, or with de-Brucing, as
those of us who have been in municipal government have had to deal with from time to time over the
years.
Are there any other comments on this topic relative to income diversification and expansion that Director
Davidson brought forward tonight, based upon what we discussed at the retreat? Seeing no hands and
hearing no outbursts, I think we've concluded that discussion for this evening.
Let me ask now, are there any other Other Matters that any Director, member of the committee or
otherwise, would like to bring forward for the Finance and Planning Committee to address at this time?
He paused for a moment and moved on. All right. No one has suggested anything further, so that
concludes the Other Matters portion of our agenda.
I will note, for the sake of the record, that our next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled
for Tuesday, May the 9th at 5:30 PM. That meeting also, as I indicated earlier at the top of the meeting,
will be conducted virtually. We hope soon to be back in person for the committee meetings. But that
meeting will be virtual on Tuesday, May 9 at 5:30 PM.
And seeing no other discussion before this committee at this time, then this meeting of the Finance and
Planning Committee of Tuesday, April 11 stands adjourned at 8:07 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank
you all very much. Have a most pleasant evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

