RTD Operations and Customer Service Committee 0922-20
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee meeting. This meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 sharp,
PM. Mountain daylight time. I would respectfully ask that everyone connected to this call, mute
your phone and set you ringers to silent. Please note that under the current circumstances, the
official meeting of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely, in the interest of public
health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, the meeting will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. You can visit rtd-denver.com, scroll to the bottom of the page, and you'll see a link to
the Board Director's page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, please announce your name and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn adds to confusion, to the records and to the
proceedings.
Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on, I will
call on each director in turn. Sometimes in alphabetical, and sometimes in reverse alphabetical
order. So please know that your time to speak will come. And if possible, hold your comments
until that time. At RTD, safety is our core value.
And I'd like to begin the meeting with a short safety briefing. With an uptick in COVID-19 cases
nationwide, it's more important than ever that we follow practices, such as those listed below.
Doing so is for your safety, and the safety of others. These practices include frequently and
thoroughly washing your hands, monitoring your health, and the health of those close to you.
Be particularly alert to the three most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19, which are fever,
coughing, and shortness of breath. Minimize your time spent in poorly ventilated, indoor public
areas. Especially when a large number of people are present. And wear a mask at all times in
public spaces, whether inside or outdoors, when you are unable to maintain the recommended
physical distancing of at least six feet. Thank you all.
For tonight's meeting, we have three recommended actions on the agenda. The first
recommended action is the approval of the Rescue Vehicle Contract Amendment. The wording
is, it's recommended by the Operation and Customer Service Committee, that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager for his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
amend the contract with White Rail Service for the North Metro Corridor rescue vehicle
modifications.
To increase the contract, not to exceed amount by $178,658.39. For a total not to exceed contract
amount of $1,036,093.39. Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2020 adopted

budget for the North Metro Corridor Mobilization project. This action addresses 2020's strategic
priority goal number four. Increasing ridership, improving rider experience. Do we have a
motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved. Some moved. Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: Was that Buzek?
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore, second.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Whitmore second. Yeah, the North Metro twins. Thank you for that. At
this time, I would like for the staff to present any pertinent information regarding the action.
Noting that the action was included in the pocket, and directors have had time to ask questions of
staff offline. Directors and members of staff, please remember to state your name for the record
each time you speak.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So, with that, good evening. This is Henry Stopplecamp, the
assistant General Manager at Capital Programs requesting the approval of this Rescue Vehicle
Contract Amendment. I'm going off a packet page four. It's a two page document. Basically as
Director-- or Chair Williams has pointed out, you have had a chance to look through it. Bottom
line is we're looking for a contract authority to increase the contract value with wheezy up to
$1,360,993.39.
This is a piece of equipment that hopefully will never be used in rescue operations. But with that
being said, we want it out there on the North Metro. The vehicle is on property at our Steel Street
facility, going through training for our own employees in FRA certification. But we're asking for
contract authority.
And the biggest thing that we added to this vehicle is what we call head-end power generators.
That basically means that when we take up somebody-- stranded, a piece of equipment-- we can
either run the-- We'll run the HVAC system, provide heating or cooling, while we're moving on
to the next station.
So it's more of a creature comfort for our patrons. So they don't sit on the vehicle any longer than
they have to. As we know, we've had that experience with very hot cars, or cold cars, either way.
So that's the biggest change. So we're asking for the change in the contract amount to basically
$180,000. With that, I will open it up for questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. I'll call on the directors in alphabetical order.
If there's discussion, please have your questions ready. Once we've gone through all the directors
to see if they have questions, then we'll do a roll call vote, and we'll call on you again. Director
Broom, do you have any questions?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just one. As I recall, this vehicle can't be used on
light rail, in case there's a situation where a light rail train breaks down. Is that correct?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Once again, this is Henry Stopplecamp. The vehicle is capable of
moving a light rail system. The biggest challenge is moving it down. It is a high and wide load.
So at the Steel Street Yard, we throw it on our commuter rail system.
But we wouldn't want to put it on a lowboy and take it down to light rail. And light rail already
has a piece of equipment for a similar operation. So this one here is designed basically for the
commuter rail operations.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And Henry, as long as you're there, this can be used on
A, B and G as well, correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Once again, Henry Stopplecamp. This vehicle has the capability of
working on any of the commuter rail vehicle corridors. The biggest challenge is getting it out on
the corridor. So once we've proven it, there is no reason why DTP cannot purchase another
vehicle. We do have two options. When we initiated the original contract with which we
received for two additional vehicles, if we came up with the money. So yes, DTP could purchase
the like piece of equipment, one that's proven, and stage it to cross the system if they so desire.
Got it, thanks. It's all you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. So Henry, what that means is that you could not
actually transfer this particular vehicle over to the A Line or G Line? That it would have to be an
additional vehicle?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Once again, Henry Stopplecamp. This vehicle could. So if you
wanted to use it as a work equipment off stage construction, or maintenance, yes. We could put it
on a lowboy, drag it over and put it on there. But if we want to have a quick response, to move it
from the N Line out, let's say, to the flyover at I-70. We're looking at probably a three to four
hour travel time, assuming we had a piece of equipment that could haul it.
So it really doesn't work as a rescue piece of equipment for the Eagle. It does work is a
maintenance, a way for working out there if the power is turned off, for improving rail
equipment. But it's not designed to be a quick response for emergencies of the Eagle.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that answers my question. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Just to press that point, is it because it start at Steel Street and there's no
connection between the N Line there? I guess it would be a matter of getting it over onto the
tracks that serve the A, B, and G, is that correct? Because it's right next to the A Line's tracks.

Just still trying to understand why if it's not going to be used very often, it would be a possibility
for the Eagle project to, Henry. Thanks.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So, once again, Henry Stopplecamp. Yes, it could move out on the A
Line. It travels about 15-20 miles an hour. So if you go up from Steel Street [AUDIO OUT] at 56 miles, and then go out 20 miles out to the airport, and you gotta dance around stranded
vehicles-- if they're in the right location where you could double track, we could probably make
that work. But once again, it's not a quick move. Our goal is to have it hooked up between 15 and
30 minutes of an emergency, and have our body off within 45 minutes to an hour at the latest.
So if we're going to bring it in, we gotta stop all N Line operations, clear the path, run it in on the
track, switch over Debra Union Station, head out on the A Line, go through the corridor, around
the parked equipment, until you got to the piece of equipment that needs to be rescued. So it
would be a challenge. It's not impossible, but I would not recommend it. And I don't think
Operations would recommend it either. I see head nods saying no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks, Henry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Direct Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think this is a great piece of equipment. And I
think the less time that we have to rescue our passengers, the better. I remember when the A Line
had a problem, I think, from a lightning strike shortly after we opened it, and it was a nightmare
really. And our staff did heroic work. So I thank you very much for taking care of this, Henry.
That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have no questions. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No question, just a comment. I think it was Mr. Ford that got stuck on one of
the A Line situations not too long ago, or shortly after he came to Denver. So I'm just reminded

that-- or reminding people that it's not just regular passengers that get inconvenienced by this. So
this is a good thing. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Not to put too fine a point on it, but
this is a North Metro rescue vehicle, paid for with North Metro funds, for use on the North Metro
line. Denver Transit Operators runs the Eagle project, and is separately addressing their needs to
provide for any additional rescue vehicles or facilities. And I am in support thank you, Madam
Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry I look forward to seeing the vehicle
down at Steele Street. And then hopefully after that, none of us ever see it again. That would be a
good sign. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE I have no questions, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, Madam Chair. I have no
questions either. Henry, thank you very much. I'm with Director Whitmore, and hope that it
doesn't have to be use. So we appreciate that. OK, I think it's time for us to move to a vote. I
have Director Buzek as the mover, and Director Whitmore as the second. So I'll just go through
you in alphabetical order. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin? Director Catlin? I'm not hearing you, Director Catlin. Vice
Chair Catlin? I'm going to go on down line and see if we can come back. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin, can we hear you now? I do not here Director Catlin. I am a
yeah, so that would make 14 yeses. And I don't know, one abstention? How do we deal with this
procedurally? Nobody knows, OK. Counselor Melanie-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair Williams, you might ask Mrs. McManus.
KATE WILLIAMS: How we deal with this, Mrs. McManus, any idea?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Can you repeat what you're--

KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, we are not hearing-- we cannot hear Director Catlin's vote.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, I-SHELLEY COOK: I sent a text, and she said you cannot unmute. This is Shelley. Sorry to
interrupt.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, if she can text her vote, because this is committee. So if we were
there and she needed to be remote, she would be able to vote. So we're in that scenario where,
yes, as long as she can get us her answer, we're fine to take the vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, do you have that?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I sent that to her in a text message and asked her to send that to-- Oh,
she sent you a text, Kate. She says she's a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'll take that then. For the record, we have 15 yes votes, and no no
votes, and no abstentions. The motion passes. I'll move on to the next rec-- And thank you for
that, Mrs. McManus, and Director Cook. We might want to take a look at what's going on with
Director Catlin before we have to do this again.
OK, we're going to move onto the next recommended action tonight, which is the approval of the
2021 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. Otherwise known as the PTASP. It's
recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the board of directors
approve the 2021 Public Transportation Agency's Safety Plan, as required by 49 CFR Part 674,
State Safety Oversight Regulations. The recommended actions supports the following General
Manager's goal.
Path goal number 1, to enhance safety and security. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Second. Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. I will now see if there is staff who wants to present any
information to us.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Mike Meader, the Chief Safety and
Security Officer at RTD. This PTASP plan-- the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan is
something that we bring to the Board every year about this time. For your approval, the
regulation states that it's signed off by the accountable executive who's our CEO and General
manager, and then approved by the Board.

And I just wanted to take a couple of minutes real quick, just to make sure that it's understood
exactly what signing off on the PTASP means. It's far beyond just a paperwork action. If you
recall, the Safety Consultants were in about six weeks ago, and explain that SMS is in its infancy
at RTD. And it needs each of you to progress to a consistent level. That's our goal, to have those
consistent processes throughout the system.
And improved safety culture is critical to achieve this level of consistency. And that requires the
Board to do a couple of things. Embrace safety as an RTD core value, as they stated, hold the
RTD accountable for safety. It's your job to hold us accountable for the measures to keep
everyone safe here at RTD. It's also your role to provide resources so we can ensure we can do
that.
And finally, to understand your leadership role at RTD around safety. And if you recall, we gave
you a Metrolink Board video that everyone had a chance to watch, that explains what that
leadership role is. And I'll just summarized that real quick. For the Board of the agency, safety is
the most important thing that they do. The Board are leaders in safety in your organization.
And This requires that you be engaged, and well understand RTD operations, hazards, and the
processes and procedures we have in place to mitigate the chance of something bad happening.
That's what the PTASP outlines. Your support of SMS and approval of the PTASP signifies your
understanding that you're taking responsibility for the safety of our employees, our customers,
and the public, on and around the RTD system.
That's really what you're approving when you sign the document tonight. So it's really important
that you go through it. And if you have any questions whatsoever, I'm happy to answer those
now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Mr. Meader. I'll go around the room and see if anyone has
questions. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thank you. And thanks, Mike.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Catlin? Oh, I forgot. She hasn't figured out how
to unmute yet. OK, well. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. She was sending through a text saying that she's going to
try and reboot, sort of hang up and dial back in. So I hope she's able to do it. Mike Meader, is
there anything significant we need to know, in summary, about what's changing in this?
Compared to the plan we filed last year.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, there isn't a significant change to the language in this one, because
we're still on that bridge document stage, as it mentions. Where we've got to be accountable to

the previous system safety, as well as the new regulatory information. There was a change in
some of the processes, around event and notification, and some of the changes we're going to
make about investigating incidents.
One of the other questions that popped up was, hey, we're in the middle of this COVID
pandemic, certainly a lot must have changed. And really that's captured in the part of the PTASP
you read about emergency preparedness in our pandemic plan. So as far as the document that
you're looking at right now, from an edit standpoint, not a lot has changed.
SHELLEY COOK: Does it need to change? I mean, to reflect all these dramatically shifting
circumstances. What's your thought about that going forward for the next year?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. The PTASP, what you'll see in this document as the regulation formally
kicks into, is more of an SMS-- Safety Management System look and feel and approach to it,
where a lot of the processes will be referenced. And one of the things that will be referenced
around what we're experiencing right now is changes in the pandemic plan.
So how we would address the pandemic plan. Those things will be captured in those documents
that will be referenced. So they won't be necessarily included in the body of this plan. So in the
future, you won't have 250 pages in this plan to read. It'll be a much more streamlined PTASP
document that will reference all of those processes and procedures that apply to things like a
pandemic.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sounds like a good deal to me. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Welcome. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for the answers to Director Cook's questions, Mike. The
organizational chart is just part of what's required for the plan?
MIKE MEADER: I'm sorry. The organizational chart?
LYNN GUISSINER: Yeah, there's this part of one of the items that's required for the plan.
MIKE MEADER: Oh, yes.
LYNN GUISSINER: OK. And I don't think I have any other questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to know if the organizational chart was the most recent.

MIKE MEADER: It is the most recent one that we had at the time we put this together. Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So when you say at the time you put this together, you mean in preparation
for this meeting? Or meaning it's been in conversation for a little longer?
MIKE MEADER: Right, in preparation for this meeting. So we did review that just prior to
submitting it to the Board packet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Dr. Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, no comment. But thank you for the work.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director in the Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I recognize that the exhibits that are
found at the beginning of the plan, prior to the actual text of the plan, for reference and
background purposes only, and are not a substantive part of the plan, that said I note that in
exhibit 1 as found on page 9, there is reference to the N Line as coming soon.
Obviously prior to final submission two, the Department of Transportation, we probably should
take that further in exhibit Roman six, found at page 104 and following. The N Line is not listed
as one of the commuter rail lines, so we might add that. Again, just for completeness.
Recognizing that's not a substantive or operational part of the safety plan. Thank you, Madam
Chair. That's all I had.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for those comments. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: My compliments on the plan. And Director Tisdale's good catch on that
minor matter. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to thank the whole
department for the amount of work that has been put into the exhibit. So thank you very much.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin? No, no Director Catlin. OK. So at this time I'm going to go
call for a vote. We'll go through the list again. I'd like to go through in reverse alphabetical order
this time, so that we could maybe give Director Catlin a chance to get here. So that would be
Chair Rivera-Malpiede. What is your vote on the recommended action?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Are you there?
KATE WILLIAMS: Dropping like flies. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I am yes. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And Director Catlin who follows me immediately, said yes as well, via
text.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. And I neglected to state that the Chair, Rivera-Malpiede, was
the mover, and Director Cook was the second. and We have 15 yeses. I am a yes, and this will
move on out of Committee. We have one more recommended action this evening. The
recommended action is the use of People First Language in RTD communications. It's
Recommended by Directors Folska, Lubow, and Menten, that the board of directors approve
resolution number like series of 2020, which acts and support the following General Manager's
goal. Core goal number two, strong and ethical leadership. And I am wondering, Director
Lubow, do you want to read this to us?
JUDY LUBOW: Hi, sorry. I was on mute. I'm not at that yet. So why don't you pick someone
else?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's fine. Director Menten, would you like to read this resolution into
the record?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would be O-KATE WILLIAMS: If not, I would-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, you can just go and read for the normal protocol level. It's fine for
me. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. The use the People First Language in RTD communication, whereas in
2010 the State of Colorado passed house bill 10-1137. And in 2017, passed Senate Bill 17-242.
Now codified as 2-2-802 CRF, concerning the use of People First Language in the drafting of a

newer amended statute to avoid disrespectful and outdated language, by referring to persons with
disabilities as persons first.
And whereas RTD is committed to respectful communications and avoiding language that
implies that a person has a whole is disabled, and avoiding use of outdated terms and language
that equates persons with their conditions. Now therefore be it resolved, effective immediately.
RTD will [AUDIO OUT]. OK, whoever not muted, it would be great if you could mute. So now
I will finish reading this.
RTD will endeavor to use People First Language in its communication, including avoiding the
use of disrespectful language that equates people with their condition. Such as epileptics,
autistic's, or quadriplegics. By referring to persons with disabilities as persons first. Example of
People First Language include, but are not limited to, the following.
Persons with disabilities, persons with developmental and intellectual disabilities, persons with
behavioral or mental health disorders, and persons with autism. The use of disrespectful,
insensitive, or outdated terms, such as mental retardation, by substituting People First Language,
such as people with developmental and intellectual disabilities. That is the whole of the motion
as it is presented as the resolution.
And I'm going to go around now and for a-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Williams, this is Director Folska. If I may make a comment, since
this was initially brought forth by me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes ma'am.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And my co-signers of course. Thank you. I think it's important that we
pass this resolution in light of the fact that, in fact, it's really quite overdue. The language here is
consistent with our state legislature. And I think, if I'm not wrong, that this was put in place at
the legislature around 10 or 11 years ago. And so it's high time for us to do this.
Another thing I think it's important to mention, which is not in this document, but I would like to
call your attention to it-- and we use it often. And I think it may have come from Special
Olympics, or someplace like that. But people with disabilities don't have special needs. So
special education isn't special. People with disabilities require and deserve education just like
anybody else. Like you, and everybody else on this Board, and on this call.
And people with disabilities don't have special needs for housing, transportation,
communication. Their needs are the same. What it is though is people with disabilities often
require having access made in a different way. But that, again, special needs are not part of this

document. But I would just like you to be aware of that, and somewhat sensitive to it. And it is
overused in my opinion.
Because what it really does is continue to subjugate and segregate people with disabilities from
mainstream life. So with that, I thank you for your attention on this matter. It is really important,
and we never want to say, again-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: --the disabled.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have tried logging off and logging back on, and to no avail. I don't know
what's going on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, we can actually hear you, Director Catlin.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Messages to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin. Director Catlin, we hear you loud and clear right now.
Director Folska is speaking however.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, Director Folska. Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Right, so oftentimes it's shorthand. I don't think anybody in
this agency or on this Board ever intends to be inappropriate when speaking about people with
disabilities. And it's common for us to use shorthand language when referring to these people
with disabilities as the disabled.
That does happen a lot. And so I am very grateful that moving forward, we will consider people
with disabilities first. People First Language. So with that, I thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I'd like to call for the motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm getting there, just waiting for everybody to stop for a minute. So, yes, I
need to have a mover and a second, please.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll second. Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: You can't second until somebody has-- till somebody-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. I'll be the motion, please.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I hear Director Menten, and I hear Director Cook. And now we've had
a lovely statement from Director Folska. Thank you, Director Folska. I did not mean to omit you,
I just didn't want to ask you to read it out loud. So there's no doubt input put this, I don't believe.
Because it's a Director provided resolution. And so we will move on to ask if anybody have
questions related to this. So we're going to go through the questions first, in alphabetical order.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No question, but what page in our agenda is this item?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 320.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. Here we go. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't know any questions, but I want to thank
Director Folska for bringing this forward. It's been a long time coming, and I'm glad to see it
coming before us. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: We hear you just fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, I apologize because my phone's showing that I'm on mute, and I
can't push the button either way. But I'll try to be quiet, since it's obviously not muted. But I
wanted to thank Director Folska for putting this forward as well. And I will be a yes vote. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, likewise. In the starting i didn't catch that we didn't have a mover. So I
would echo the thanks and so forth to Director Folska for bringing this forward, and for her
remarks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, I don't need to ask if you have any questions. So I'm going
to go by you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Unless you have something else you want to comment? You good?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I do not, but I'm happy to answer questions if they are necessary.
Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Good motion. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I share with Director Folska that I appreciate her bringing forth the
People First Language, and so thank you. Well, Director Folska, Lubow, and Menten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. Director Lubow, do you have any questions about your
participation in this?
JUDY LUBOW: No. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. But I do have a comment, which is I'm
glad this is being brought forward because I really didn't understand this problem before. I didn't
even know it was a problem. And so it's good to have to have my awareness raised about this.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. You're welcome. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions, but I do have a comment and that is to say thanks to
Director Folska for finally taking-- or for putting this resolution in place. And I am very pleased
to have been able to sign on to initiate this as a Board agenda item. So, thank you, Claudia.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Nice to be able to do something like this, given all
the other negative or undesirable things this year. So good thing. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am completely in support of the
resolution. And I appreciate very much, Director Folska and the others for bringing it forward. I
do have a minor editorial suggestion for the sake of clarity, and the avoidance of confusion, that I
would ask if they would consider as a friendly amendment. And I've referred to Colorado
Revised Statute, Section 2-2-802, to be informed on this.
The way it reads now, the relevant language is avoiding the use of disrespectful language that
equates persons with their condition, such as epileptics, autistics, or quadriplegics. By referring
to persons with disabilities as persons first. That's just a tiny bit confusing. If we would delete the
word "by," and say, "and instead." So it would read, the use of disrespectful language that
equates persons with their condition, such as, dot dot dot, and instead, referring to persons with
disabilities as persons first.
I believe that just provide some clarity, and I think it's actually more consistent with the actual
language in Colorado Revised Statute Section 2-2-802. So my request is would the mover and

the second, and the other two directors who signed on to the motion, be amenable to that slight
editorial improvement?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, this is Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'm neither the mover, nor the seconder. I do appreciate that
observation and think it's meaningful. So I would support that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I approve.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, likewise. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Fine with me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think that's the mover, the second, and those who signed on to that.
And we can make that change before it moves out of com-- in between the time it moves out of
committee and moves into the Board meeting. So I think we're OK on that.
OK, where was I before I get sidetracked? I forgot. Who did I call on last? Director Tisdale was
last to speak. Director Walker, I think you're up.
DOUG TISDALE: And I spoke. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma-- Yes, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: No question about that. Doug.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, Director Folska for bringing this up. It's a good move. But one thing
that I am wondering what your thoughts on are, and if we could just remove those terms that are
insensitive, and that we shouldn't use anymore instead of memorializing them in this document.
I've seen other resolutions like this, in other-- or motions like this, in other agencies.
And it stricked me-- has stroked me-- has striked me as funny that those terms that we don't want
to use anymore, encased in that language. So I'm wondering if you would consider what your
thoughts are, or anybody's thoughts, on removing those terms. And just say that we don't want
used anymore.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. If I may respond to Director Walker. Indeed, Director Walker,
I believe that it is an unusual thing. But as you heard this evening, Director Lubow was even
unaware of it. So I think it serves to provide examples, should people be wondering what is
inappropriate. And so for that, I think it's appropriate to leave it there. But I do see your point
very much. It is unusual. But it actually isn't that common for people to just know it. Amazingly
so.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, it's kind of a paradox. We have to use what we don't want to use
anymore, to prove that point. I'm fine with it as is, it was just something I was wondering what
your thoughts on it. And if you had struggled with that when-- or what your thoughts on it were
as you were writing this. So I'll support it as is, if you support it as is-- as is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Adequately.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thanks, Madam Chair. I'd like to thank the three directors that
brought forth this very important document. And I'm very impressed, and learned a lot from just
the short remarks from Director Folska and Director Lubow. So thank you both for those very
important remarks. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, would like to thank Director
Folska for her work on this, and bringing it forward. And I was so happy to have a conversation
with Director Folska about her resolution. It is absolutely time for us to do this. And I want to
thank you for your leadership, and your commitment to moving this forward, as well as Director
Menten and Director of Lubow. I will be a resounding yes. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Madam Chair. I am also very much in favor of this, and
appreciate the work that went into it. So now we're going to go back quickly and do a vote so
that we can move this forward. And this time we will go in alphabetical order. Which means that
Director Broom has to get ready to unmute himself. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. And again, I want to thank everybody for taking the time to take a
look at this. And for my co-sponsors, I really appreciate the support.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ma'am. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Dr. Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I am also yes. This is a unanimous vote, and it will move on out
of Committee. Thank you, everybody, for your time and your work on that. Now that is all of our
recommended actions for this evening. So we will now move on to updates.
We have two updates on the agenda this evening. The first to update is the January 2021 Service
Change Proposal. And I believe-- if I can find myself here-- that Jessie Carter's going to speak to
us about that update.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO. I'm going to start off, and then I'll
hand it over to Jessie for a little bit more refinement. But I wanted just start off that we are really
here to night to present--- to the Board-- an update on the January 2021 proposed service plan.
We're not seeking any Board action tonight, but wanted to provide you some context, key
elements, and considerations, that are contained in the proposed service plan prior to going out
for public comment. There will be at least four virtual Town Hall meetings from early October
till the middle part of October.
The service plan is an amalgamation of service enhancements, service reductions, and service
suspensions. This plan is in keeping within our financial means, parameters. Delivering about
60% of our pre-pandemic service levels, to address our current ridership, which is roughly about
40% of our pre-pandemic service levels.
This methodology is consistent with staff's previously articulated comments-- from our Director
of Special Projects, Bruce Abel, and our Chief Financial Officer, Heather McKillop-- that
continue to articulate our financial viability through previously held study sessions. The
information and data in your packet also contains service analysis, graphs, and charts, that
illustrate our different modes of service, and provides a comparison of service levels of ridership.
From roughly the 2019 April-May timeline, versus 2020, as another measure of what services are
maintaining productivity, and which services are not. The proposed January 2021 service change
also articulate some modifications to light rail service, maintains existing levels of ADA's
service, so as not to impact ADA's service delivery efforts as part of this proposal.
Additionally, where there are service gaps in coverage due to redeployment of needed service
coverage in other areas, we are working to backfill services where warranted with Vanpool,
FlexRide, Uber, Lyft and other creative opportunities by thinking outside the box. Additionally,
we are in continued discussions with our contractors to determine the appropriate levels of
service and maintenance going forward.
And finally, it should be pointed out that any re-emergence in the future, from our current service
levels, will take time, due to resource constraints, recalling of employees, and hiring. And overall
operational readiness to ramp up service. So we will not be as nimble adding or addressing

service related needs in the immediate future. We will also ensure that the mandating of our
employees will continue to be stabilized towards nonexistent, as it is now.
And we will be very methodical in bringing back service, as conditions and circumstances
change. We also have to look to modify and address our social distancing requirements, as more
customers return. Another key point to the 2020 January service plan, is also adhering to the
Board adopted guiding principles, as well as the recently adopted COVID Mission Focus. So we
really want to take all those things into consideration.
And one thing I just would leave you with, is something that I think we really took to heart,
which was one of the COVID Missions statements from the Board. We will prioritize mobility
for people who must depend on transit during the pandemic. We will strive to maximize mobility
during the pandemic, for those customers who most depend on service to access essential jobs,
and their necessaries, while also keeping our community activity centers appropriately
connected.
So I just wanted to give you a brief overview of some of the elements within the service plan.
And I'm going to turn it over to Jessie to provide a little bit more detail on some of the elements I
just discussed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. We appreciate that. Mr. Carter, we're ready to hear
from you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning
and Scheduling. I don't have a lot to add. Michael was actually very thorough in explaining the
whole process and what we're attempting to do with this service change. But this service change
is really directed at redirecting our resources away from underperforming services, to services
that are struggling with capacity.
There-- as Michael had mentioned before-- there were some charts that were provided in the
Board report, and they really tell the story of where we sit right now, in terms of our overall
ridership being less than 50% of our pre-COVID ridership. And also it illustrates how some of
our services are not performing well, in comparison to others.
In other words, if were to look at how our commuter services-- which includes Rail-- is not
performing as well as our local services. However, there are some local services that are
underperforming as well. So with that, those things said, there are-- in the proposal-- there are
recommendations to suspend several regional routes. There is a consolidation effort of light rail
patterns, and also a truncation of R line at Lincoln Station.
There are also several maintenance items that we have listed there. And all of these things we
hope to do, again, within our current resources, by redeploying the resources saved from
suspended services, to those services that need the additional services. I want to also emphasize,
again, there are four public meetings that we'll hold virtually.

I'm not sure exactly which program will be used just yet. P.I. will be sending out information to
the Board once the program is selected, that we'll be holding the public meetings. And they start
October 7th, and run through October 12th. And with that, I'd like to open to any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. We will go around the room. And there was a lot of
information. I count seven or eight attachments as part of this, that we have had time to look at.
And I'm sure some of the directors have questions. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Are we maintaining statistics on social distancing?
And are we developing any kind of a framework on deciding that we need to expand services?
Like on 15, or some other line in order to get social distancing back into balance? Or conversely,
do we have any ideas on when we're going to relax social distancing requirements? Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Madam Chair, this is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: So I can't speak to when we will relax the regulations, but I can speak to the
information that we have available. Our dispatch team actually developed the Business
Intelligence Program when we first began under COVID Operations. Our operators report every
time they hit social distancing caps, and we have a great deal of information with regard to how
frequently that occurs. And on what routes and what areas and it occurs.
of course, the common theme that we see is at the core service area of Denver. 15, 16, 0, 121,
services like that are the ones that frequently hit social distancing caps. And of course, along the
corridors of Broadway and Colfax are frequent flyers. But we have a significant amount of
information on what services are hitting social distancing caps, and it's kept real time by our
dispatch team.
JESSIE CARTER: Correct. And that information has been-- I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter,
Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. That information was shared with us by Fred's
team. That's how we identified the route 16 and 31 as needing additional four blocks each, to
actually cover what we are seeing on a daily basis. Also as you pointed out, the Route 0 is
another route that we're looking at for the load analysis, in hopes of taking-- somebody
articulated-- coaches that we're using elsewhere to put on that route, to alleviate some of the
capacity issues.
DAVE JENSEN: And this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. If I could pitch in on the
rail side. We are able to determine the passenger loads on each train trip, and adjust the train size
accordingly. So in situations where ridership is increasing, we can add vehicles to the trains. And
in situations where ridership is decreasing, we can take vehicles away.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And sorry, this Jessie Carter again, because I can't help myself, I
guess. But we do have a Ridecheck Plus system, in which we do have a column that lists the
maximum load by trip. We use that data to keep up, and actually correlate some information that
we're receiving from our Operations team as well.

BOB BROOM: OK, thank you very much. That's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, good job, gentlemen. On everybody. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. So we begin [AUDIO OUT] service plan that reduced
our service dramatically, and so forth. And now this service change proposal has to do with kind
of shifting resources around, based on the data that we have. One thing I think we need to do-and I think it's a very important piece of messaging-- is to ensure that we call this the Pandemic
Service Plan 2, or something to that effect.
So that the world knows that this is, again, another temporary service plan caused by the
pandemic. It's not a permanent change to our service. Just like we went from a six year to a two
year mid-term financial plan. We couldn't possibly base permanent service changes on ridership
during a pandemic.
So I think it's an important piece of messaging to let everybody out there know that we're going
from the Pandemic Service Plan, into a new Pandemic Service Plan that moves these resources
around, and is temporary in nature. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I think that's great feedback. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I completely agree with Director Buzek. And as
you would all expect, I've had several calls actually-- from people in my area, concerned about
the suspension of service. And Jessie Carter was very nice to walk me through what that means,
as opposed to elimination of service. And it does point to Director Buzek's statement about it
being a COVID 2 plan.
I have had-- oh, at least weekly-- riders call and asked me when the 160 next is going to be
reinstated. And have had some people who are looking at going back to the downtown commute
from the mountain communities, who are concerned about the CS, CV, EX and ED routes into
Evergreen and Conifer.
And then the 99 is also one that some of the Southwest Metro area customers are uncomfortable
with. So I really hope that when we move out of this COVID 2 plan, that we do take a look at
potential ridership. Because as I stated before, it's hard to measure ridership when there is no
route.
The one thing that I did clarify with Jessie Carter, was that the availability of Access-a-Ride
along those routes that were previously fixed routes-- which have been suspended-- would still
be enforced. And I think that's important for some of our customers who rely on Acess-a-Ride.
That's all I have, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thanks so much. And in response to Director Broom's question, Jessie
volunteered something I was curious about. And that was what was being added to the 31. I

would say don't forget the 19, it's similar, it seems to me, in terms of-- and I know you wont, I'm
just bringing it up. So that I would echo Director Buzek's, and Director Catlin's remarks about it
being the COVID plan.
We are basing principles we laid out. I was glad to hear Mr. Ford relay those. And because it is
dependent upon the COVID in the current condition, both ridership and financial, I think it's
important to indicate that it's a COVID plan. We need to be careful-- and this is reflecting a
conversation, Director Williams, that you and I had-- we need to be careful in terms of framing
expectations.
We need to know, people need to know, it's somewhat open ended. We can't promise when all of
that will end, but the idea that we revisit several times a year-- and certainly no later than say,
September-- would be my preference on that. So with that, that's all. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good job, Michael Ford, with you and your
team. I really appreciate all the effort that goes into this. And I know it's very difficult. And I do
support, very strongly, Director Buzek's recommendation about the messaging. And it's a
COVID plan, I guess you could say.
Jessie, can you respond to Matt McAllister's letter that we got regarding the R Line? And also
expand on the regulations-- I think it's by the FTA-- regarding the Siri frequency.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce. If I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Abel, go ahead.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you. I would like to respond to the question directly Folska just ask,
regarding the letter from Mac Callison, and the city of Aurora. And I would like to thank
Director Broom for setting up a meeting with Mac, and with Mayor Coffman. Oh, probably a
month or two ago, where we did have a conversation with the two of them representing the city
of Aurora, regarding some possible approaches to looking at the R Line, the H Line services to
Aurora.
And how we might move forward in this time of fiscal constraint. Pleased to say that as a result
of that meeting, we discussed several alternatives for reconfiguring the R Lines. And the
reconfiguring of the R Line that is included in this packet, which is basically truncating and short
turning the R Line at Lincoln-- as it did before the Southeast Rail Extension-- was a modification
that the city could support.
And they indicated that in their letter today, that they understood our need given our fiscal
constraints, to make these modifications. And they were in support of the proposal that is
indicated, which is the truncation of the R Line at Lincoln.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Abel. Good, good. Director Folska, you good?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. So thank you, Mr. Abel, I also was happy to see a letter saying that
somebody was in support of our action. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Thank you. And thanks to Jessie and Michael Ford, and your team, for all
the hard work here. I especially appreciate that you were able to go back up to the initial view.
And I would mention Natalie, and it's sage there as well. And I appreciate that you look at that
plan. And AB and Jensen in decide that it didn't need to make those changes at this point. Those
are areas that are not doing huge numbers right now.
But as time changes in January and months after with CU and BBSD. And a similar situation
down here with the Auraria and community colleges and DPS. We are really in an area that we
don't know what's going to happen, and I appreciate keeping most major lines open. I totally
agree that this needs to be called a Pandemic Service Plan 2. I appreciate that idea.
And there's a lot of support, a lot of concern, I think, out there among out stakeholders. But
support for the problems that we're dealing with and the pandemic driven operational shortfalls.
If you didn't have a chance to read the Metro Mayors Caucus Letter today that was expressing
the consensus of the 38 member Metro Mayors-- or even if you did-- and it mostly addressed the
FISA.
They also addressed the pending driven operational shortfalls. And they said we urge RTD to
work with our sub-regions to identify and equitably allocate temporary short term pandemic
related service cuts that prioritize mobility needs of low income workers, students, and transit
dependent riders. that has been echoed by many of our stakeholders. But hearing it from the
Metro Mayors was significant for me.
I would also say that the Accountability Committee-- those that listened to the meeting the other
day-- expressed the same thoughts, that they appreciated the pause we've taken with Reimagine.
And encouraged us to do a shorter term MTSP, which we're doing. And also to make this a
shorter term, or at least a pandemic related service plan, and not just the new normal.
They asked Director Whitmore and me, to please pass that along. I would echo Director Catlin's
thoughts on the lines that are discontinued. It'd be nice to see if we could start working toward
some specific criteria for returning routes, or measuring routes where we can't really measure
ridership-- because they're not there anymore-- and see what other things we can do.
And I really appreciate RTD team's efforts to work with our local government partners, and to
look at alternative options for some of these areas. This plan was the first-- I saw many more
references to working with Uber and Lyft, and taxi vouchers and things like that. And I'm happy
to see that. Thanks so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions. The first is actually a
request. If I can get directions by route, I don't really appreciate that information. And then as it
pertains to the public meetings, and the process that we are anticipating for that, has there been
any communication sent out to our constituents to notify them? I know it was mentioned that it's
on a two week calendar, but have we created any social media events? Or disseminated that in
any other way?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, this is Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager of
Communications.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. So thank you very much, Director Lewis. I wanted to just
let you know that we are going to be starting our communications. We have just wrapped up the
details of when each of the meetings will happen. We will be doing these virtually. And there
was a question earlier-- or comment-- I think by Mr. Carter, about not sure what platform will be
used.
But it will be Teams, because we are planning to utilize a PowerPoint presentation, which will
allow us to share our screens. So we'll be using Teams. And we'll be starting the promotion
process now, especially after the N Line is over. And this, we believe, for virtual meetings, gives
us ample opportunity over the next couple of weeks to make sure that the region knows about the
meetings. We are offering different times for the meetings.
So there will be a meeting for instance, in the middle of the weekday, a weekday evening
meeting, a weekend morning meeting. There will be a Spanish speaking meeting, and such. So
yeah, we'll provide ample opportunity. And also have a social media presence promoting those
meeting times as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. And then for Teams, did that require someone to have a
license to access them? Or is that a free download?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, to be on Teams to see the PowerPoint presentation, they will
have to be able to use the Team's platform. But we'll also have an opportunity that gives people
an opportunity to call in, just as when the board is tested Teams in its meetings. There is a call an
opportunity for Teams. And so we will provide that opportunity for people to at least call in and
be able to listen, and then get in the queue to ask a question live to us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I just wanted to make sure that people will have access and so that's
why I was asking those questions. And then the final one-- Jessie probably won't be surprised
that I'm asking this question-- is we had had a community meeting pretty recently here, and one
of the concerns that came from one of our elders in the community is that they don't often have
access to technology, and don't necessarily know how to work it.
And so just wanted to make sure that we are prepared for that. I'm in no way suggesting that you
all have community meeting outside, that aren't online. But I think it's something that we should

just consider as we are planning these, is that was a barrier to access for some of our elders in the
community. And those without access to technology and internet.
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, Manager-PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam-- Yeah, go ahead, Jessie, and then I can follow up.
JESSIE CARTER: Sorry. Yes, Director Lewis, we will make sure that the telephone number for
access is promoted as a part of participation for those meetings. And in particular to the groups
that you have been talking to, and that we have the opportunity to speak to regarding the Route
28 and 32. Perhaps we can make sure that that number is given to those individuals as well.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And Madam Chair, I'd like to follow up with Mr. Carter's comments.
We are going to utilize our partnerships with community organizations, social service
organizations, and make sure that we have that information shared with them, so they can share it
through their channels. And make sure that those folks have an opportunity to weigh in and
participate in the process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, good, I'm really excited to hear that. Because in this new world of
COVID, and how we get information out, I think it is strategic to work with our community
partners to be able to maybe disseminate some of that information. So I appreciate you saying
that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, agreed. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep, that's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, everybody. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I wanted to thank Michael and Jessie, and your teams, for all
the hard work. You guys have been working incredibly hard, so thank you. I have a few
comments and questions. One comment is that I support what a lot of the other directors have
said about the messaging around this plan, that it be called a Pandemic Plan, so that no one is
thinking that this could possibly be a template for future action.
Because it's an emergency situation, not something common. Another issue that I have has to do
with Access-a-Ride. We've been told for a very long time actually, that through the pandemic, if
routes have been suspended or cut, the Access-a-Ride folks would not be penalized for that-- that
they would be grandfathered.
And unfortunately I heard recently from Sarah Grant of Broomfield, that she heard from three of
her constituents in Broomfield, that they had been called by RTD staff to tell them that they were
no longer going to be getting their Access-a-Ride service. Which you can imagine freaked them
out. And it turns out that that was generated by some kind of computer snafu unfortunately, but
that's both good news and the bad news.

Because it was inaccurate. But I would really like to make sure that everyone that was
erroneously called because of that snafu is recalled and told that their service is continuing. This
is incredibly important. So I would hope that that could happen that, Sarah Grant of Broomfield
and myself would be kept informed of the status of rectifying that problem.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford. Can I just respond to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I found out today that there was a glitch in the system, and we did have
to do a manual override. But we have been contacting the people that were affected to let them
know. And we will make sure that we work through this problem. It had to do with obviously our
switch over to a service change, and it affected Sunday and some of Monday.
And I just found out about that maybe a couple hours ago. So we're working diligently on that, to
fix the problem. Larry and Paul Hamilton are both working on that right now. We will make
clear to our customers what's going on, to make sure that they can feel secure in the services that
we're delivering for them.
JUDY LUBOW: That's great. I'm wondering can myself and Sarah Grant at Broomfield get an
update? So that we know that all the people that had been erroneously called, have been
readdressed on this.
MICHAEL FORD: I know that Larry and Paul are intently listening in on this call, and I know
they will follow up and give you an update. Again, I just found this information a couple hours
ago, so I just want to let you know.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. Thank you. OK. A few more comments. I support what
Director Guissinger suggested about creating criteria to determine how to re-up suspended
routes. I have one in my area, the J, because it had no Saturday service-- it was suspended. And I
know that some people really would like to see it reinstated. And it would be great if there could
be criteria created for routes that are there to check ridership.
Just to determine when to restart them. OK, two questions. One has to do with-- Oh, yes. The
goal that was mentioned, that is kind of the core goal for this Pandemic Plan 2, is continuing to
serve the riders that are still using the system, and are transit dependent. But it has a second part,
which is that while continuing to keep connections between our community centers.
And I'm just wondering about the second part, which seems to be more geographic and
something that I'm particularly interested in. And I was wondering if, Jessie, maybe you could
talk about how that second prong of that goal is being dealt with by Planning and Scheduling.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Lubow, I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning
and Scheduling. The second part of the goal as far as community connectivity, when we consider
community-- Yeah, we're largely talking about major generators that are community centers. Not
necessarily a community center such as an actual community facility.

So when we talk to that and we look at routes that are usually coming from outlying areas, going
into the downtown area, we would put a priority on a service that actually stops and services-- or
provide service to an additional community center. Or an additional ridership generator, and
allowing multiple connections to the system.
So I were to give you an example, there are a couple services that are coming out of the
mountain areas, and they stop at the Federal Center before going into downtown. That is a
service that has multiple connections. So it has a ridership generator that is the Federal Center,
and it has a ridership generator that is the CBD-- or Central Business District.
So that would be given priority over a route that just simply starts out in the outlying area and
goes to a single generator like the CBD. So that's what that means to me, and I'm sure there are
some other comments that others around the table would like to join in and explain.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you for that. Is there anybody else that wants to-JESSIE CARTER: Sorry, I'm looking at Bruce right now, and he's about to say something.
BRUCE ABEL: So Jessie pointed-- this is Bruce Abel. If I may, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: And given that Jessie was pointing at me as he was making his last statement, I
was just going to add in that obviously everything that we are talking about is done within the
financial constraints that we've been talking with the Board about extensively over the past
several months. And so that's the other part of the equation, that Jessie and his team worked very
hard to maximize the use of our existing resources that are very constrained, given the economic
downturn compliments of COVID. So it all works together.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, I know that we've always been stressing the idea of helping the folks who
are transit dependent that are continuing to use. And we just never mentioned very much the
second point, and I wanted it explained. So thank you. And my last question has to do with if we
can find some extra money. And that's one of the things that motivates me in my search for
administrative cuts, is finding more money.
Can that be used for the kind of follow up service? Or increasing service that was done by the
Care Act? But we're saying we don't have that money anymore, so we can no longer do those
services. I'm just wondering if we can find extra money? Is there some way to know that it will
be used for those services that are being cut now?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, if I might. This is Bruce Abel.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: I hope that the Board is aware of the fact that we've been looking for every
quarter under the couch cushions for the past several months. Obviously as financial projections

improve, the Board will have the opportunity for conversations with the staff as to if-- capital I,
capital F-- additional resources are found. We have cut deeply into our reserves, we have used
resources at the organization, we have deeply deferred capital asset management programs, and
we have reduced services.
So these are the conversations that the Board will have to address if we find additional funding.
What would be the highest priority? Whether to be to restore reserves, whether it to be to restore
some of the capital projects that we have had to defer, or whether to add service. So these are the
types of conversations that the Board, and staff, will need to undertake if we find resources.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you. It's coming up because if we can save a couple of million
through additional administrative cuts, my hope would be that it could be used to save some jobs.
And I just think it's important to discuss that. So those are my questions and comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I'll admit, I may have missed printing one of the attachments
potentially. And the only reason I say that is because I don't really see a lot of dollar figures in
the service plan change. So can we start out with did I accidentally not print out something that I
needed that would give me some dollar figures?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Menten, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service, Planning and
Scheduling. No, the dollar figures were not included. Because, again, it was designed to be cost
neutral. So any dollar spent on-- or any dollars theoretically saved from the reduction of service,
is then spent on the services that we are increasing within our current COVID condition.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. I actually didn't think I missed something, but I was
trying to be careful. With that then, if we're looking at, let's say we're talking about the mountain
routes-- just closest routes to my area here-- where will that funding come from? For DRCOG-And maybe I can just summarize it without going into that specific example.
Do we have a line item that is going to support these alternative transportation methods that
we're looking at? And I [AUDIO OUT], so let's start with that. I think what you just told me is
really isn't. Because the money that's coming out of the CV, the EB, the other routes, those are
going to be going into other areas.
JESSIE CARTER: Sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service, Planning and Scheduling.
Yes, your assumption is correct in that there are some costs associated with some of the
suggestions in attachment B. So the alternative services would have to balance out within the
context of the other proposal. So what I'll promise to do-- and when we come back with the
operations plan-- is to provide identification of the total number of hours, or the dollars spent.
And to make sure that it's understood that the cost of the alternative is covered in the service
change.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel, if I may?

KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: The RTD also does have an agreement with DRCOG for the co-promotion of
Vanpool, including the funding Vanpool. And so we do have funding in the budget, and there
has been funding retained in the budget. The number of Vanpool currently supported by RTD
has diminished with the current pandemic. So we do have some flexibility to put some services
back in, within the budget that remains. So some of the potential services are funded-- can be
funded within the constraints that we're looking at. Others might require additional funding.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right-- [AUDIO OUT]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to say one little quicky. Director Menten, one second. I want to
point out that it is possible to request a fully accessible Vanpool. They are available. It takes
advanced notice, but you can set that up. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So with that, and looking at the attachment-- what was it, attachment
B or D-- I don't know. We got a lot of attachments here. But the one that does talk about the
alternatives. Not so intrinsic as how I travel. And generally, day to day, am I going to be going
from this point A to that point B? After, day after day, after day, and that's not my travel patterns.
And I know a lot of people have changed-- the work from home situation. But still if we open up
these alternative transportation methods, the bottom of the list for me would be the Vanpools,
because there's just not that flexibility that perhaps a transit voucher would provide. And as I
looked through the pros and cons, it was interesting reading through those.
What I would like to see is if we are able to-- as you put it, Mr. Abel, find some more quarters
under that couch-- or under the couch cushions-- Could we take a serious dive into a very prorider alternative transportation method that uses transit vouchers?
And if we did happen to find, let's say a million dollars, or $2 million, or $3 million dollars, can
we really provide these very robust transportation vouchers for folks that really benefit? I would
just keep using the same example of a single mom who's getting off a catering gig-- which, I
don't know, maybe I better change a catering gig-- getting off the job at 11:00 PM at night and
trying to get from that station to her home so that the babysitter can go home. How do we make
something robust for her?
And I don't see Vanpool working for that. So I'm bringing this up because we're going to have a
discussion later tonight, and that's why I wanted to just highlight this with a lot of emphasis as to
if we'd found those, again, quarters under the couch, what we could do. So I think that covers it.
I am also a little bit leery like Director Lewis, that having gone to many service change
meetings-- because might my history is I don't just stick to the one ride in my area-- and Jessie,
the other service palnners, you know this. I try to go to as many of these as possible. It's only
difficult when there's two in the same night and I can't be in two places.

But I'm looking at all the folks that come to these meetings. There's going to be some people that
have some challenges with Microsoft Teams. And you look at the Board, did all the Board
members absolutely snap right to how do I get to Microsoft Teams? I don't think so. So
sometimes technology can take a little bit. So I'm a little bit worried about that part.
I know there's the phone number to call in, but I think we've got the max. I don't think we'll get
to the max. But I'm just going to express that I'm a little concerned that the general public may
have and a little bit of difficulty. So I'll leave that at that. I know you all are working hard to head
off problems like that. Thanks. That's all I've got for right now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll just say I'm in agreement with Director Menten
on, I guess, how to further the suggestions that are already in here. But the alternative. I know the
[AUDIO OUT] Line specifically was offered up as one of those rules that could benefit to be
better served as a local feeder service.
And so I think there's in addition to that, also some of these alternatives. I don't know what the
demand for commuters and stuff like that going downtown are. However the P Line is popular
because of the Civic Center destination.
I've suggested Vanpools of people, also the E Line. And I know that the town of Parker was
particularly interested in a voucher type of program. Even though it's just as a pretty loose
concept that they were interested in that. That's all the comments I've got. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry, Madam Chair, I thank you for your patience with me. Thank you very
much. Just a couple of observations. First of all, I do want to give kudos-- [COUGH] excuse me- to staff for a lot of excellent work. I think it's fantastic. But I particularly noted the provision of
a seamless change from the D Line to the E Line, in both the North and South directions.
So that the Southwest rail, the D Line would connect with the E Line at Broadway and I-25, and
for several stations after that obviously. In both the North and South directions, but that it would
be coordinated at the Broadway I-25 station, and I think that's great. And I also appreciate the
consideration of vouchers for the route GS, for Uber and Lyft transportation. As is discussed at
page 328 of the packet.
And finally, yes, I do concur in support Director Buzek's notion of making clear that we are
labeling this as a continued Pandemic Service Plan. Those are my thoughts, Madam Chair.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I am wondering how long we go before we stop calling it a
Pandemic Plan and it just becomes the plan? The six months since we've been in the pandemic

full throttle, who knows how long it'll last? We hit 200,000 casual fatalities today, and anyway,
I'm just worrying when do we stop calling it pandemic and when we just call it life? Meaning
this is what we have. It's kind of a rhetorical question.
So I like what I see. I remember when I was in Pittsburgh-- I can't remember, I think it was for
Rail-Volution-- and I think Director Catlin and I got to meet with somebody from Allegheny-the transit agency in Pittsburgh. And if I remember correctly-- and please correct me if I'm
wrong-- But I think that they used their Acess-a-Ride service currently-- or at least they did at
the time-- similar to what's being proposed here, where they gave anybody a ride on it in like a
micro transit fashion-- or a FlexRide fashion-- and that kept there per ride passenger subsidy way
down.
So I'm pretty sure it's been done before there, and maybe other places. I see it here and I think
that it is helpful. I don't know if I have a whole lot to add. I like what I see. I'm glad that staff is
rising to the occasion and looking for alternatives to getting around. It's going to take
rearrangement on everybody's part to adjust schedules and locations, where we do our business
where we live.
And this looks like it's providing as much certainty as it can, given that there isn't much certainty
in anything right now-- as if there ever was. Anyway, so that's all. I just want to say thanks for
this. Oh, the one thing I do want to point out, about how they measure service when service is
needed. I think some of us who were around when the 4 had to go away back in 2011-- or 2012, I
believe-So the four went down Morrison Road between Alameda-- and I don't remember that the
southwest terminus-- but that was gone for about 3, 4, 5, six years maybe, and it did come back.
We've seen a new route-- and least one new bus route-- a couple of them. I think the 104 is a new
route, because of the service demand that was measured by staff.
And also I don't remember what the name of the route is, but it was extended up in Lafayette, to
serve a neighborhood in Lafayette. I believe it was either Lafayette or Louisville. So I know staff
keeps an eye on the pulse in their requests for service, and that's something that they can
measure. And when the money is available and the demand is high enough, they may get service
out there the best way they can.
So that's all I want to say. Thank you for your-- Thank you. That's it. Bye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. My questions have been asked and many valid
points have been made. So I have nothing more, except to just thank staff for their hard work on
this matter. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: One of the advantages of being at the end of the alphabet. Chair RiveraMalpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I really want to take this
opportunity to thank Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter for the thousands of hours they have been working
diligently to put together this plan. I can't thank you enough because it is just such tedious work,
and its precision work. And I really appreciate it.
A lot of my questions have been answered. I really want to thank Director Lewis for her whole
component in terms of outreach. And I'm wondering if this might not be the perfect opportunity
to reach out to our partners in all the municipalities and ask that they televise our public hearings
on their channel 8, so that the public can participate no matter who they are. So that they can
garner this information.
And Mr. McKay from the Board Office had been researching this before COVID, to see if we
could maybe share something, and show our meetings. But I'm wondering if-- really because
we're in such an unusual circumstance right now-- if we couldn't partner with our municipalities
who do have public channel 8s, and see if they would offer to allow us to publicize-- or to show
our public participations and see all the Boards and really see what we're doing. That's all. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Madam Chair. I have no comments. I'm with Director
Whitmore, I've heard a lot of great ideas and a lot of great thoughts. So I think Mr. Ford, and Mr.
Abel, and Mr. Carter, and Mr. Worthen, and Mr. Jensen, and everybody else who participated so
far. And I think we will move on.
The next update that we have is on the FlexRide, and the Metro Taxi service integration pilot
status, which is relevant to this discussion. And my notes say that Mr. Becker is going to speak
to us on that.
JEFF BECKER: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. This is Jeff Tucker, Manager of Service
Development. Just wanted to give a quick update. [AUDIO OUT] what the pilot program is all
about and [AUDIO OUT] where we stand. The goal of this project is to demonstrate a new
service delivery model that intelligently integrates FlexRide's dedicated vehicle fleet with Metro
Taxi vehicle. And perhaps other's in the future.
In this way, we hope to accomplish two objectives. One, better make RTD customer demand.
Some customers trips may be denied due to the capacity constraints of the FlexRide fleet. Instead
of denying the trip, or adding another vehicle, RTD could accommodate the trip with a taxi trip.
And two, be more cost effective for RTD.
During periods of low demand, the fewer trips we have can be accommodated with taxis,
resulting in a net cost savings from reducing the FlexRide fleet service hours. So this pilot will
be implemented for the First Last Mile FlexRide services during the midday hours in the Denver
Tech Center. We want it to be more cost effective.
As a bonus, our technology partner, Demand Trans, has enabled us to combine all the southern
service lanes into one big service lane. To allow trips to be made anywhere within the combined

seven service areas, creating a circulator type of a service. Which has been much desired by the
stakeholders in the Denver Tech Center area.
The status right now, RTD and Metro-Tech has completed full in doing field tests of the
technology, including some trip reservation to taxi assignments in June. Tending, executing all
the contract requirements. The pile will get underway at October the 5th. With fleet vehicles still
in operation for a few months, we'll have an evaluation to determine how many fleet vehicles
should be retained after the pilot.
At least for wheelchair equipped trips. And some of you have heard me talk about this for quite
some time, and I take a great pleasure in getting it finally started up next month. So, Madam
Chair, if there are any questions, I'll be glad to answer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Becker. I think that we are all very interested in this. And
I'll see if the other Board members want to ask. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Nothing at this point. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. thanks, Jeff. I'm glad and looking forward to hearing more.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Jeff, how long have you been working on this?
JEFF BECKER: Well, we started with the concept of doing this about three years ago, creating a
project to do it. This sort of innovation is quite a substantial effort. There's the actual technology
in how you make this work. A lot of this is just making sure you're getting all the rules and
regulations that are required. Everything from drug testing, to ADA. And just getting a lot of
change in the participants to actually provide these services. And it was pretty difficult.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then can you tell me-- the service pilot begins October 5th, shift and
what is the duration of that, please?
JEFF BECKER: We'll take it probably for this one board-- the service run board could be less
time. It could probably be at least two to three months. We want to make sure how it works

technically, but also for our customers. Because they don't need to request it, we will simply
assign a taxi to pick them up. And we'll let them know, you know we have our notification.
So we want to make sure everything is copacetic. And then we can start to determine if we can
actually reduce the fleet vehicle requirements with our contractors.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Good job.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINER: Well, I think it's a really interesting project. And it's great you're getting
started. And I don't have any questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No questions, but good luck, Jeff, it's exciting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I would ask, the presentation that we got some months ago had
some more written documentation with it. Is there a plan outline on this? I really didn't see
anything in the packet. Should I just go dig up the old document, or do we have something
fresher? Or fresh?
JEFF BECKER: This is Jeff Becker again. There's no change to the plan, except that allowing
one big service area in DTC is something that we were able to accomplish, kind of just as an
increment [AUDIO OUT] done easily. That's the only difference in the plan. So all the other
documentation's the same.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so tell me how this works as a rider. Just refresh my memory.
I'm going to log into the system or go into the portal. And I'm going to reserve a ride. Walk me
through how it looks as a customer, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Becker, you still with us?
JEFF BECKER: Sorry. Forgot the mute. Yes. You know, with this integrated delivery approach,
passengers would continue to book FlexRide trips on their smartphone or computer or by using
the current FlexRide scheduling platform. And that platform will be programmed with business
rules to decide whether a fleet vehicle or a taxi should be used, and therefore we're able to
actually save the money.

And then when comes time for their trip, the FlexRide technical platform will send a notification
to the customer as to the pickup time, as usual, which is what we already do. But if it's going to
be a taxi, it will say that your taxi will pick you up with this license number. And the outside of
the vehicle, kind of like Lyft and Uber now, the vehicle will also have a window tag that shows
that it's a FlexRide.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. And what is the plan-- let's say you're a rider and you're working
until the evening and you're not exactly sure when you'd be done with your workload and need to
plan ahead for this ride. What kind of advance notice should that rider be planning on to go to the
portal and plan for this? What kind of a timeline before that taxi shows up? Is it within half hour,
a couple hours? How far in advance does a rider need to plan?
JEFF BECKER: Yes, Jeff Becker again. There's no difference from what they're doing now.
They can book a trip from 10 minutes from now up until 30 days, whatever is convenient for
them. And the technical platform will let them know whether they can schedule the trip or not, or
if they need to-- it'll give them options that will vary on what times are available.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
And then this would probably be a good time to share with the other board Directors, if you want
to grab your pen-- this will be really quick. But with speaking with Lyft, I asked where they had
pilot programs. And I'm going to give you six cities where they have pilot programs. Actually, I
know there's a couple more than this, but I'll give you these. St. Louis, San Clemente, California,
the Bay Area, Austin, Washington, or WMATA, and DART. So for those who are interested in
these pilot programs that are out there, those are six that I was given. I haven't started to do all
my homework on them, but I thought this would be a good time to share it with your all instead
of bugging you with another email.
So that's all the comments and questions I've got. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for the information, Mr. Becker. I don't have any questions or
comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I concur in the remarks of Director Mihalik. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK then. Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Mr. Becker, this is good stuff. This is kind of like what I've heard how
those driverless vehicles would operate. So it's good to see. Thank you. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I concur with Directors Mihalik and Tisdale. Great job, Jeff. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Jeff, great job as usual. I have no
questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I just have one comment to make. It's the Chair's prerogative. I
think this is a fantastic thing. And we're not giving him enough credit. I think this is where we
need to go in the future. The average cost of the metro taxi ride is considerably less than we are
spending on FlexRides now, or on any of our other services. And it's great that we are able to
coordinate with them through technology to make this happen.
As I've said in the past, I think that only 10% of our riders are Access-A-Ride users. And of that,
only 10% require an accessible vehicle. Many of them are able to use regular vehicles. So this
will also lead towards serving that population. So I personally am really, really excited.
And I have just one question that's not so exciting. Jeff, is this the same area that was part of the
pilot that we did with-- can't remember who-- it wasn't Chariot. Who was it, that substituted for
FlexRide in the DTC area? Who was that?
JEFF BECKER: Centennial.
DOUG TISDALE: It was the city of Centennial, Director.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Is this the same pilot area?
JEFF BECKER: Centennial is in the Denver Tech Center. It's one of the-- Dry Creek FlexRide
serves it. And it is one of the seven FlexRide service areas that are in the pilot.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That was not a very successful endeavor that I remember, although it
was an interesting pilot.
OK. Thank you so much. Appreciate your time and your work on this. If nobody else has any
other questions, we're going to move on.
The next part of our program tonight is Update and Information items. Information Items are
relatively new to us here. They've been included in the agenda packet and published on the
Board's meeting portal. There are appropriate staff members after this meeting if anybody has
any additional comments. I'm assuming everybody looked at it. I'm going to go around all of the

Directors and ask if anybody has any questions on informational items 1 through 8 that you
would like to have answered now.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: NO questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: None for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one question, please. Is this going to-- does this also include the
fiscal policy? I think it does.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure which-- yes, who is that would like to respond?
SHELLEY COOK: Shelly Cook, sorry. I can offer that it's-- the fiscal policy is part of the
Finance and Administration and Audit Committee update tonight. I'll ask for that separately.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I scrolled down way too far.

KATE WILLIAMS: (LAUGHS) Director Menten, are you --?
NATALIE MENTEN: I have no questions. Yeah, I have no questions. It's all one big meeting to
me, you know?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Slow down that scrolling finger there.
Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I concur in the remarks of Director Mihalik. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Not be redundant. No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are good. Thank you. And I have no questions on any of the eight
informational items. Or if I have, I got them answered beforehand.
I do not believe there are any other matters tonight. But I'm going to ask, in case anybody has
something they need to bring forward.
DAVE JENSEN: Madam Chair, this is Dave Jensen, AGM, Rail Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir, Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: So I apologize for interrupting, but I believe under Other Matters, I just wanted
to take the opportunity to thank everyone that was involved with the opening of the N Line
yesterday. It represented a lot of people who did a lot of work for a long time. And I just wanted
to say well done, and thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I think we all echo that sentiment. I believe that many
of the Directors attended on more than one date and time and rode the N Line and we all enjoyed
it a lot. And it gave us a good reason going over that bridge to see why we approved that vehicle
earlier in this meeting.

Anybody else that wants to speak in Other Matters?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. In regards to the North line. So the way it was working, as I tried to
get out of Denver Union Station, go back up north, is that we were only allowing 30 people on
the two trains, was it yesterday, already yesterday, only 30 people, assuming that there were
going to be people getting on the station. And I don't know if the same was in the reverse up at
the top end, if only 30 were allowed. Was that only set up for opening day, the inaugural day?
I ask because there were two trains that I could not get on. And I'm just wondering how are we
doing that.
DAVE JENSEN: Dave Jensen, AGM.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Jensen, go ahead. The short answer is, yes, that was only for
yesterday. So we've gone back to what will be normal operations. The staff is doing what they
would normally do as monitoring loads on [AUDIO OUT]. So yes. Yes, the short answer was
that was just for yesterday.
NATALIE MENTEN: So at Denver Union Station, 60 people can get on.
DAVE JENSEN: Yesterday, they did what you said was at Union Station and at 124th, they only
allowed 30 to allow for people further down the line to be able to board without overloading the
trains.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And are we doing counts right now, like today, tomorrow, where 60
people can get on at Denver Union Station? And [AUDIO OUT].
DAVE JENSEN: I'm sorry. We are not doing that any longer. There aren't those types of loads
right now on N Line. We didn't experience that today in either case. But the process has changed
back to what is going to be normal service for us.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I just wanted to say that I think our new security ambassadors- I forget what we call them-- but they're so much better, so much more friendly, and so much
less intimidating and provocative. So I really appreciate this new approach. And I'm really
looking forward to seeing that implemented throughout the system. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Folska. Are there any other comments during
the Other Matters section of this meeting?
OK, there's your 30 seconds. Hearing none, the next meeting date for this committee will be
October 20. We will convene at the same time and the same location. And I would accept a
motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Director Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Catlin. The Operations and Customer Service
Committee stands adjourned. And we will have a five-minute recess before we move on to the
Finance, Administration, and Audit committee. Thank you.

