Civil Rights Committee - 4-13-2021
SHONTEL LEWIS: Looks like it's 9 o'clock. We agreed to return at 9 o'clock, so I will honor that for each
of you.
I will now call the Civil Rights Committee to order as of 9 o'clock exactly. I would ask that everyone mute
your phones. You've heard this. I won't bore you with the details. Remember, we are over Zoom until
further notice. You all know that. The meetings are being recorded. And so you can visit the rtddenver.com website, click on the Board of Directors page, and you should be able to find the recordings.
And those seem to be posted as quickly as possible.
For the sake of the record, if you all are going to speak, please say your first name and raise your virtual
hand. I will be sure to address you as I see your virtual hand. For the public, this is not a meeting that has
public comment. And so I would ask you to tune in to our last meeting, which does have public comment.
In terms of safety, safety is a core value. Wear a mask. Get a vaccine, if you feel so compelled to do so.
Social distance. And generally, just stay safe, people.
In terms of recommended action, so we actually only have one recommended action on this agenda this
evening. It's the COVID-19 Title VI service equity analysis. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved, Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Whoa.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have Buzek first and Director Williams as a second. Great.
All right. I would ask at this time that staff present any pertinent information on this action. And if you all
would like to be recognized, if you have a question, please raise your virtual hand and state your name
for the sake of the record.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, everyone. This is Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of
the Civil Rights Division.
I would like to take this opportunity to introduce to all of you First Sergeant Carl Green Jr. He's RTD's new
Transit Equity Manager. He comes to us from TriMet in Portland, Oregon, where he held the position of
Title VI and Equity Programs Senior Administrator. First Sergeant Green has served in the military for 17
years, and he is currently active as a first sergeant in the Oregon Air National Guard.
His main responsibilities at RTD will be to ensure RTD's compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, Executive Order 12898, which is environmental justice, as well as Executive Order 13166, which is
the Language English Proficiency, LEP.
Thank you so much for the opportunity to introduce our new Transit Equity Manager. If I may, I would like
to turn this over to First Sergeant Green, who will present to all of you on the RTD service change
requirements pertaining to the COVID-19 service equity analysis. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Miss Silva, and welcome, Sergeant Green.
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Zamy, for the wonderful introduction. Good evening, Madam Chair and
members of the Board. I'll go ahead and pull up the presentation to share with the Board.
Can everyone see this OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, we can.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Good.
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you. So again, my name is Carl Green Jr., Transit Equity Manager of the Civil
Rights Division. Tonight I'll be presenting on the COVID-19 service equity analysis that has been
completed in collaboration with Kinetic Transportation Group, who is the consultant that completed the
analysis. This analysis was completed to satisfy the Federal Transit Administration, or the FTA's
requirements for emergency service changes made during the pandemic.
This analysis must be brought before the Board for awareness, consideration, and approval. Before I go
over the Title VI equity analysis process, the methodology and findings, Jessie Carter, Acting Senior
Manager of Service Development, will go over the COVID-19 service changes and considerations dating
back to March of 2020.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have the floor, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Carl. I appreciate the introduction. And I just want to, would like to
share with the Board a review of the development of the COVID service plan and some of the challenges
the team has experienced over the past year.
Some of you may remember, March 24, 2020, staff recommended the Board of Directors approve an
adjustment to the RTD services responding to decreased ridership as a result of COVID-19. Sharp
declines in ridership occurred in the second week of March 2020, with March 12 being the last day of
normal service, normal levels of ridership. System ridership fell by an estimated 70%, falling from 347,000
weekday boardings down to just over 100,000.
Pivoting to the change in ridership, the COVID service plan replaced regular weekday service with
Saturday levels of service for bus and Sunday levels of service for rail. Service levels on high ridership
bus routes were augmented based on an anticipated and measured ridership levels. This service plan
was adopted by the Board of Directors alongside the May 2020 service change, which contained a
significant reduction of service due to a labor shortage. Subsequent adjustments to the COVID-19 service
plan would be made in September of 2020, coinciding with the implementation of the N Line, and in
January, 2021. Next slide, please.
Developing the subsequent service change proposal, Service Development took into account overall
ridership, monitoring trends in system ridership, and at the same time taking a closer look at ridership on
individual bus routes and rail lines. The work group also made efforts to adjust schedules to maintain ontime performance and to stay in contract compliance with our collective bargaining agreement with ATU.
Additionally, proposals were made to adjust operating plans on select services to better bus and rail
connectivity. And in each of these service change periods, impacts of Title VI in transit equity were
considered while forming the proposals.
Key challenges facing developing adjustments to the COVID service plan during this period remain
maintaining fleet and operator resource availability to support social distancing on RTD transit service and
the selection of route service to have unscheduled hours convert to scheduled hours, which diminishes
the District's capacity to respond to sporadic or sudden changes in ridership patterns, and, last but not
least, an understandable urge to return to normal levels of service coming from the District as a whole.
Normal service levels would include increases in span and frequency of service and the implementation
of some of the commuter services that are currently suspended.
With that, I turn it back to you, Carl.
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Jessie.

The authority that sets the legal precedent is Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which states, "no
person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving Federal financial assistance." The FTA's circular, or policy, provides the directives to ensure that
transit agencies are upholding the assurances under Title VI. And the RTD Board adopted Title VI
program establishes the policies, standards, and framework for carrying out this programmatic work at the
staff level. A key evaluation tool that is of significance today are the equity analyses.
This slide presented before you all provides a conceptual overview of the equity analysis decision making
process for fare and major service changes. The analysis includes the determination of whether a service
change meets the major service change threshold. And as you look at this pictogram decision tree, if the
answer to that question is yes, the next step is to measure the potential impacts on Title VI protected
populations using established policies. And just to be more clear, these policies are the disparate impact
policy for minority populations and the disproportionate burden policy for low income populations at or
below 150% of the federal poverty level.
And then lastly, if you look at the last item on the right for evaluating alternatives, it's the overall
assessment. There's an overall assessment if there's an adverse impact. And if there is an adverse
impact, the agency will move forward to either avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating that said impact to
determine the next step needed.
As defined on page 6 of the Equity Analysis Report, a major service change is 25% addition or reduction
in the annual service hours of any route or line that would remain in effect for 12 months or more. The
results of the major service change indicates that there were 40 service, major service reductions and 63
eliminations. This brings the total to 103 existing bus routes out of the 167 services. The N Line and the
restructuring of nine routes account for the additions that met the major service change threshold. Again,
this is noted on page 43 of the Equity Analysis Report. As a reminder, all major service changes dating
back to April 2020 to the current run board were included in the equity analysis to assess the overall
impacts.
The slide here provides the Title VI policies and methodology. The disparate impact and disproportionate
policies, excuse me, which will be referred to as Title VI policies from here on out, provides the
methodology and the thresholds for the evaluation of possible impacts. Specifically, the policy states that
a major service change should not adversely affect a minority population 10% more than non-minority
population. It's clear, to be distinct, that it's percent, not percentage points. So that's how we analyze the
impact. And then this level of impact is considered a potential impact and that same threshold of 10% is
also applied to low income population as compared to higher income population.
Each Title VI policy is applied at the route level. If you look to the right, it provides a visual depiction in
how a quarter mile buffer around a route enables the ability to assess the surface area population using
US Census data at the block group level. Given the sheer number of changes, there were several
additional analyses completed to get a better understanding of the system and corridor level impacts
associated with the service reductions. This will be covered more detailed in the next slide.
Before discussing the results, I wanted to again provide a refresher of the Title VI policies which
establishes the thresholds in order to perform the comparisons required. Specifically, Title VI protected
populations shall not receive no more than 10% more of the service reductions compared to non-Title VI
protected populations. The system level analysis was used to understand the large number of service

changes across the network, to assess the impacts at an aggregated level. Details of the system level
analysis can be referenced on pages 19 through 27 in the Equity Analysis Report.
At a high level, the results indicate that there are no adverse impacts when comparing the service
reductions of equity populations with those of non-equity populations. Specifically, equity routes received
far fewer reductions in service than non-equity routes. And to drill down a little bit further, low income
populations had a 13% lower reduction compared to higher income routes and minority routes had a 12%
less reduction than non-minority routes. So again, by using that 10% threshold, this indicates that there
are no adverse impacts at the system level analysis.
And moving into the next part, to the multilevel approach for this analysis is the route-level analysis. The
bar chart presented here illustrates the results. And again, the details here can be referenced in the
summary of findings on pages 28 through 31 on the Equity Analysis Report. The first bar of this bar graph
indicates the results of the routes that received major service reductions. The second bar illustrates the
elimination. And the third shows the impacts of the additions.
Of the routes that were reduced using the key or the legend at the bottom of the graph, it indicates that
there were 14 potential disparate impacts and 27 potential disproportionate burdens. Of the routes that
were eliminated, there were 12, 12 had potential disparate impacts and 38 had potential disproportionate
burdens, whereas of the 10 new services and/or restructures, 7 routes had potential disparate impacts
and 6 had potential disproportionate burdens.
What this means, and something to consider based off the route level analysis, it provides a general
understanding at the route level, or looking at each route individually, but it's best to understand the
entire, the totality of the analysis in order to assess the overall impacts across the service district. And
one item of note that I wanted to mention is that the majority of the remaining routes and lines that did not
result in a potential finding served areas with high concentrations of minority and/or low income
populations.
Actually, before I move to that next slide, I did also want to mention that the potential impacts were
flagged for further examination using a corridor or route block group level analysis, which can be
referenced on pages 16 through 18 of the Equity Analysis Report. And what the corridor level analysis
aimed to measure is the net service change impacts, given the underlying populations around each route.
And the analysis found that 30 of the 40 routes had smaller reductions in the service than the corridor's
primary route, and all the eliminated routes had a net corridor service change that reflected a smaller
reduction in service, indicating the availability of other RTD services within a quarter of a mile of the
corridor of each route. And because RTD's network operates at a grid network, this showcases that there
were service availability even with the service reductions and/or eliminations.
Another point of consideration that is being brought forward are the remaining 64 routes that didn't result
in a major service change. The service levels for these were maintained to the extent possible. While
taking a deeper dive, the assessment indicates that these routes are serving a higher concentration of
equity populations compared to non-equity populations. As illustrated in the first pie, chart 70% of the 64
routes are serving above the service district average for minority. And similarly, the second pie chart
shows that 94% of those routes are serving in above the district average for low income populations. And
just for awareness the service district average for minority is 35.4%, whereas the service district average
for low income is 16.8%. And that is using census data.

So as far as the overarching conclusions of the equity analysis is there are minimal concerns comparing
the April, 2020 to the April, 2001 service changes. And given the nature of the emergency service cuts,
priority was made to ensure service levels were maintained for equity groups, and the analysis illustrates
this. Priority was also placed on preserving access to key activity centers, such as hospitals and health
care providers and major employment centers.
Looking at the second bullet, service reductions impacted ethnic groups far less than non-equity groups.
By way of the system-wide analysis, it shows that although the low income routes had a greater number
of annual trips reduced than higher income routes, the reductions resulted in a 29% decrease in service
compared with the 42% reduction in higher income routes. And the reductions to minority classified routes
were lower both in terms of annual trips and percent change compared to non-minority routes. And as a
result, minority routes were reduced 16% compared to 44% for minorities.
Looking at the third bullet, the service additions were mixed, with higher income and minority groups
receiving less of the other impacts compared to low income and non-minority groups. But please note that
the N Line service plan equity analysis was completed a year prior.
The fourth bullet communicates that the potential disparate impacts and disproportionate burden routes
were prioritized for future service changes. This was spelled out in Jesse's presentation on the June,
2021 service changes, where based off of that, my assessment, it showcases or illustrates that 20 of the
35 June proposed service changes are adding back service or providing maintenance to some of the
major service changes related to the COVID-19 service changes.
And then lastly, as depicted in my last slide, routes serving low income and minority populations-- serving
minority populated areas were maintained and retained throughout these service reductions.
So to summarize my presentation, I covered the methodology, the findings, and the overall implications
and conclusions, which satisfies the FTA requirements for making the Board aware and to consider the
analysis. Given that there are minimal Title VI concerns associated with the service changes, the staff
recommends that the Board approve of the service equity analysis. I will now open it up for the Board
discussion and questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Green. We really appreciate your presentation. Very well done, very
thorough. Also, thank you, Mr. Carter, as well, for your presentation.
For Directors, you know the drill. Raise your virtual hand and I will call on you in turn. It looks like we have
Chair Rivera-Malpiede as our first speaker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Carl and Jessie, thank you so much for the
presentation. It was really great.
I have a question. In the city and county of Denver, you talked about the medium income being 150% of
the federal poverty level, which would be about $9.28 an hour per person. But in the city of Denver, it's
$13, and starting in July, it will be $15 an hour per person. So will that disqualify those essential workers
who will get that raise in being equated into this equation in terms of low income communities? Because
the cost of living in Denver is so much higher anyway to begin with. But I was just wondering, Carl, what
your methodology was in terms of looking at the new federal poverty level, including when we were
working on the PASS program, the community asked us to look at 185% of the federal poverty level
because they wouldn't qualify at 135% of the federal poverty level. So I just wondered if you could just
walk me through that piece of it. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead, Mr. Green, you can address that question.

CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Rivera-Malpiede, as far as the analysis goes for
our Title VI program, the low income definition, the definition for low income is at or below 150% of the
federal poverty level. And this was as, I'm not exactly sure of the time frame of when this was adopted as
far as that definition goes, but what I can tell you is that is a general practice for low income, for defining
low income populations.
To your point of whether or not that makes sense for Denver specifically, that could be explored during
our next Title VI program update, which will occur in 2022. And I know the range of federal poverty levels
as far as that definition can go anywhere from 100%, 150%, to 200%. And so that's what I'll offer up as far
as that definition, and that's how the disproportionate burdens are assessed for comparing those impacts
associated with the service changes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's it. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, you are recognized.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to Ms. Carter and Mr. Green again.
Just curious, Mr. Green, so you're joining RTD? Or are you staying in, I believe it was Portland?
CARL GREEN JR.: Madam Chair, may I address the question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have the floor. I'm sorry, I couldn't get off mute.
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Madam Chair.
Director Rosenthal. I started at RTD on February 16, 2021. So this will be approaching my second month
here at RTD. So I'm in Denver. But I'm coming from TriMet in Portland, Oregon.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK, great, great. Well, welcome. And welcome to the team and thank you for
your excellent presentation.
So I really appreciate, first of all, your work, Ms. Carter, as well. And then I think if I can sort of summarize
the conclusions a little bit, so you're saying that when RTD made the service reductions and eliminations,
they did a pretty good job of making sure that there were no adverse impacts. And to the extent that there
might have been an impact, that there were minimal concerns from April, 2020 to April, 2021. Is that an
accurate sort of analysis or summary?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Mr. Green, you have the floor.
CARL GREEN JR.: Madam Chair, thank you. Another great question, Director Rosenthal. In my
assessment of the COVID-related service changes and looking at the approach that we completed as far
as this analysis goes, generally in the past we have done the analysis at the route level. But in order to
take a deeper dive we utilized a three-level approach, so taking it from the route level to the corridor level
for the net changes, and then the system level. Utilizing those three different approaches did, in fact,
allow us to better understand the nature of the impacts. And to emphasize what you noted, based off my
assessment, you're exactly, you were exactly right, that there were minimal Title VI concerns associated
with the service changes from dating back to March, 2020 to the current run board.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And then my last question is, and it's going to be a little counterintuitive,
so as we restore service and restore not just ones that were eliminated but restore services that were
reduced, assuming that pretty much all services are being restored, is there a Title VI issue with
potentially some routes being restored faster than others, and in that way there might be a disparity
there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have the floor, Mr. Green.

CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Madam Chair. Another great question, Director Rosenthal.
So in concert, in collaboration and partnership with Jessie Carter and his team, we've had ongoing
conversations of what are the Title VI implications and associated impacts when we're adding back
service, given, for example, starting in June and in September and in the future. So to address your
question, there are potential impacts. But given the impetus, or I guess the methodology, we're looking at
the service district as a whole.
So as I'm thinking about how I want to frame my response to this question, if we are-- as long as we're
adding service equitably and we're taking into consideration minority and low income populations and
whether or not those service changes that we're adding back would constitute a major service change, I'm
looking at the proposal in its entirety. So for example, this coming September, 2021, as long as minority
or Title VI protected populations are receiving 10% more of the benefit, or receiving more of the benefit,
there's not a concern with respect to Title VI. It's where we're receiving less of the benefit or more of the
reduction.
So taking that closer magnifying glass to assess those impacts, working in concert with Jessie and his
team, we will make sure that we will mitigate any of those potential Title VI concerns.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I can, Director Rosenthal, just to add on that, recognizing Carl was answering
the question from a tactical level and ensuring that there is compliance, stepping back from what we've
talked about before, there will be a holistic approach as we look at the levels of ridership, including the
aspects that Mr. Green has put forward relative to disproportionate burden and disparate impacts. That
will be top of mind, as we ensure it's very analogous to what we have to do in being a recipient of federal
dollars. Recognizing our previous conversations from the Finance Committee, it's our obligation in
relationship to utilizing any of these monies that we have to comply and do it in that fashion. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you. And by the way, my apologies, Mr. Carter. Appreciate that.
JESSIE CARTER: No offense taken, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you. Apologize.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Rosenthal, does that conclude your question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That's all I have.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Cook, you are recognized
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And first, welcome, First Sergeant Green. I have to say, I
have not seen, in my two years on the Board, I've not seen the equity analysis presented in this detail.
And I'm just very impressed with that. So thank you very much.
I had a general question and then one specific ask, I guess. I had written with the query about the District
L. And I thought your response was spot on. Because it sounds like the purpose for your work in this
analysis is to identify those routes and individuals who are affected and perhaps need to see some
adjustments. So in talking to General Manager Johnson, it sounds like you will be identifying, and your
PowerPoint, you will be identifying some changes that perhaps need to be made to address those block
groups or those block corridor, or block routes. Is that correct? And what's the timeframe, if so?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You may respond, Mr. Green
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Madam Chair. As I'm thinking, I guess one thing that I will mention, as we
look to the three future run boards in September, January, March, I will be working in concert and being
close to the service development process and hoping to work in partnership with Jessie and his team,
noting that there are additional considerations and guiding principles to making these service additions or

additions in the future. So I just wanted to, as General Manager Johnson mentioned, that Title VI and
transit equity will be top of mind as we're adding service to the extent and to the extent level possible.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Madame Chair, one more?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, please. So I wanted to just bring up that specific route number, 72. And that's one
where it met both criteria, disparate impact and disproportionate burden. And the service changes as
advertised in spring of 2020 indicated that the service would start at 6:00 AM in the morning. Well, in
effect, it didn't. And the equity analysis carried forward that assumption. And it didn't. It starts at 8:13 in
the morning going westbound and 8:52 in the morning going eastbound. I've had contacts from folks at
72nd and Pecos and at 70th and Washington who are affected by that, can't get to work on time. So I just
wanted to make a particular point of emphasis on that one corridor, as well as the others. Thank you so
much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Or thank you, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you have any additional questions? Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: No, Madam Chair. That was great. Thank you so much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook. Thanks for your time.
Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And First Sergeant Green, welcome. Thank you for your
service and welcome aboard RTD. And this presentation was very educational. And I, like Director Cook,
had not seen something to this level previously. So I really appreciate it.
And I guess I just wanted to make a point that when you look at packet page 203 that has the map of the
routes and shows those that were suspended or discontinued, there is an incredible amount of red in the
Southwest and Southeast areas of the metro area as opposed to some of the other areas. And I noticed
on some of the income graphs that there are communities of lower income up in the mountain
communities that have no service right now.
So I continuously hear from some of my constituents in Conifer and Evergreen that there's a growing
number of senior populations that, or seniors that need mobility services. And so I just wanted to say that
the majority of red on that map is really in the South and the Southwest areas. That was just a kind of an
editorial comment for the record. Thank you. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin.
I do not see any additional hands-- well, I see your hand, Director Cook, is that-- OK. And Director Catlin,
I think you have concluded. All right. I do not see anyone else in the queue. And so I believe we had a
first from Director Buzek and a second from Director Williams. Oh, looks like, OK, I rescind that. Director
Broom, you are recognized. You're on mute, Director Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just hold down the space bar, Bob. Just hold down the space bar and you'll be
unmuted.
BOB BROOM: OK. I've jumped the gun. I was wanting to address other matters.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. Well, I will make sure I get to you, Director Broom.
All right. So the recommended action for this one is the COVID-19 Title VI service equity analysis. The
recommendation is to approve that service equity analysis. And we had a first from Director Buzek and a
second from Director Williams. I will ask if you are opposed to this recommended action that you raise

your virtual hand or your real hand, preferably your real hand so that I can see you, or you can unmute
your mics and just tell me if you do.
I don't think I see anyone. So with that, we have 15 yes, zero nos. And the motion passes.
All right, Director Broom. So thank you all. We have actually two discussion items before we move on to
other matters. And so the first discussion item is the small business enterprise. And so I will turn the floor
over to staff to provide us with that program update.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights Division. So the RTD
Small Business Enterprise Program, which is a SBE program, the certification of that program at RTD has
been temporarily suspended. And we did not fund it in 2021 budget that was approved last year. What we
want you to take away with, there's a couple of leverage here.
Number one, we have currently 451 active certified small businesses on RTD's database that we can use
on our programs, as well as the City and County of Denver and CDOT have three certifications that we
can leverage. So City and County of Denver has the Minority and Women Business Enterprise
certification program. They also have their own small business program, and they have a Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise Program that we can leverage and use as part of our small business certification at
RTD. So RTD will continue to create opportunities for small businesses at RTD. And we will continue to
establish goals on our locally funded projects, and that's usually where we place SBE goals.
In addition to that, you should be aware that RTD created a small business program a few years ago for
the purpose of just to create a race neutral framework. RTD's small business program is committed to
fostering equal opportunity to SBEs and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program, which is required
by the FTA. So we want to ensure that as we move forward, we'll create and continue to create a level
playing field and remove barriers and assist in assisting and developing these programs.
So with that, I will open it up to any questions that you may have. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Miss Silva.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, may I ask Ms. Silva to qualify, I'm not certain if every
member of the Board has an understanding about race conscious versus race neutral. Because even
though the moniker says race neutral, it's broader than that. So Ms. Silva, can you expound for
everyone's edification, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager.
ZAMY SILVA: Absolutely. Thank you, GM Johnson.
So with the DBE program, which is the Disadvantaged Business Program, the agency as a whole has to
have an overall DBE goal. And the DBE goal is based on project goals and goals that DBEs would
compete fairly in the marketplace, or projects DBEs that would compete fairly on the market. So project
when a project has a specific goal, that is race conscious. That means that we consciously placed a goal
on a project. Race neutral is when we don't place a goal and a small business competes fairly and wins
that contract, or that the prime contractor goes beyond the goal. So if I place a 5% goal and the prime
meets the goal at 15%, any of that additional percentage that he goes above the goal is considered race
neutral.
RTD created a small business program that is literally race and gender neutral. In other words, our
program does not consider race or gender as part of the certification criteria, but we do look at the size
standard that the same that the FTA looks at, what USDOT requires, when they created the regulations
for the DBE program. Does that answer the question?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. I just wanted to qualify. Because when you say race neutral, we're actually
talking about gender and other aspects. So thank you, Miss Silva.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager. And thank you, Ms.Silva.
So I will open the floor to the Directors who wish to speak. I would ask that you raise your virtual hand
and I will call on you in turn.
All right. It does not appear that anyone has any question. And so I will move on to the next discussion
item, which is the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, the ACPD report. And so I would ask
that staff present any pertinent information.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights Division. I
would like to introduce Jamie Lewis, who currently serves as the Chair of the Advisory Committee for
People with Disabilities, which is ACPD. He will provide you with an update on work that ACPD committee
has been working on this year. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Mr. Lewis, you have the floor.
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening, Directors. I know it's late. It's been a long
day. So I'm going to try to be as brief as possible.
There's three highlights that we've been working on at our last meeting. One is a securement area on the
light rail. A securement area, if you're not aware is the place where people with mobility devices use to
get on the train. And we're working on some advancements, and staff has been really cooperative on
working on these. One is an audio message reminding passengers that that area is reserved for people
with mobility issues. We've also reached out to security. And the TSO officers will be assisting the
conductors if there is a conflict in that area. So we really appreciate them stepping up.
And we're also working on consistency, making sure that every train has some kind of indication, for
instance, like the blue handicap symbol. We're currently working on a design to make sure that all the
trains have some kind of indication that that area is reserved for people with disabilities.
The second issue is elevators. If you're not aware that RTD does own some elevators and services them.
But other elevators are owned by local municipalities or other entities. So what we're trying to do is come
up with consistent signage, so if a person sees an elevator out of order, they'll have a number to call and
find out how long that elevator will be down or for any other information that they would like to get.
And the last issue we were working on is a crossing signal at 124th. This is a very residential area, so
there's concern about the volume of the crossing signal there for light rail. And so what we're trying to do
is to lower the volume without sacrificing safety. So we're working on staff about that. And that's the N
Line, excuse me. It's not light rail, but the N Line.
So in your packet, we do have the minutes from ACPD. So if anybody has any questions, and you're
more than welcome to contact me after this meeting offline. And Madam Chair, if I can answer any
questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Lewis. It's always a pleasure to see you, and I appreciate you hanging
in there. It's a late meeting.
JAMIE LEWIS: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. If there are any Directors who have any questions, please raise your
virtual hand and I will call on you in turn. OK. All righty. If you insist. Oh. Director Williams? No? OK.

Well, Jamie, or Mr. Lewis, thank you so much for your time. It's always a pleasure to see you. Really
appreciate the work that you all do in that committee. It's work well done and we do appreciate it.
JAMIE LEWIS: May I do say that the staff has been very cooperative. In order to address these issues,
we have to ask a lot of questions. And the staff is always stepping up and getting us information. And
they've been really great the last year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. I'm happy to hear that. I know that we are making a lot of progress in that
area and we've come a long way. And so thank you for sharing that with us. It's always good to hear that.
All righty. OK. So those are the only discussion items that we had. It appears that Director Broom, I will-without you having to call your hand, we have Other Matters. I'm sorry, it's late. It just went completely out
of my head. Director Broom, Other Matters, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
Last year, we didn't provide any services in connections with the Broncos or the Bronco ride. And of
course, there was nobody in the stadium. But this year, they're going to sell out all the seats. And I'm sure
we're going to hear a lot of calls about, is there going to be any Broncos service? And so I'd like to get a
report on that. Are we going to add some extra cars to light rail, or can we do anything to assist? Because
obviously, there's more seats in the stadiums than there are parking spaces.
SHONTEL LEWIS: General Manager Johnson, I imagine you'd like to address that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I will. We will bring something back in recognizing that there are plans to have,
more seats, capacity at activity centers and recognizing that the MLB, in conjunction with the City and
County of Denver, are holding the All-Star game. We are working in conjunction with the City and County
of Denver. And I believe that will be the springboard in relationship to addressing Director Broom's
question, as we work in tandem to see what it is that we're going to do while adhering to safety protocols.
Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Anyone else? No? Wonderful.
Well, I would tell you all to take good care of your health, take good care of your spirits. I know we've had
some rough months and some rough days and lots of violence plaguing our communities. And so I would
encourage you all to check in with your therapist, if you have one. If you don't, you can use mine. She's
incredible.
And without further ado, I will call this meeting, adjourn this meeting. Do I have a motion to adjourn?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
SHONTEL LEWIS: There we go. Officially call this meeting at 9:48. You all have a wonderful evening and
take good care of your spirits. Bye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, everyone.

