Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, June 14, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called to meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:16 PM
7:16 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:12 PM
7:13 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Absent

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:15 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:14 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Committee Vice-Chair

Absent
Present

7:15 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present
Absent

7:10 PM
7:17 PM
7:12 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:15 PM

Chair Tobiassen and Directors Folska, Francone and Lasater were absent. Director
Deadwyler left early.
Staff Present:

Tonya Anderson, Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Larry
Buter, Gina Callahan, Joe Christie, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover,
Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Lisa Dorrance, John Elias,
Terry Emmons, Brett Feddersen, David Genova, Kim Heldman, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews,
Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Monika TreiplHarnke, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Public Present:

John Desmond, Eric Estell, Gary Forbes, Jennifer Marshall, Mike
Meader, Dan McKeehan, Tom Peterson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Monte Whaley, Jeff Whiteman

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of 2016 Amended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 to amend
and appropriate funds for the proposed 2016 Amended Budget, to increase
the appropriation by $0.051 million to $1,500.674 million as detailed below
in the overview of the 2016 Amended Budget, and to decrease the
appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds) by
$243.961 million to $843.221 million.
The 2016 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the
Amended Budget column below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

The 2016 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue
which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 28, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, noted this is the first

time staff has had to lower expenditures in quite some time.
She reiterated that RTD cannot appropriate revenues but must
project revenues each year. She indicated the Amended
Budget shows revenue projections decreasing by $46.9 million
on a combined basis. Her team was able to make up for this
deficit by working with staff to reduce capital and operating
expenses. She thanked everyone who worked so diligently on
the Amended Budget process.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, reminded the Board that the 2016 Adopted Budget
was approved in November 2015 and staff made changes in
June to account for more accurate and updated information.
Staff will begin unfolding the 2017 Requested Budget in
August with a request for approval in November. She
reviewed the 2016 Amended Budget available in the June 14,
2016 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet. Staff will request adoption of the 2016 Amended
Budget at the June 28, 2016 Board Meeting.
The adjustments being requested are:
a.
Revenues be decreased by $46.9 million for a new total
of $1,074.8 million.
b.
Operating expenditures be increased by $11.6 million
for a new total of $647.1 million.
c.
New capital expenditures be increased by $35.1 million
for a new total of $520.0 million.
d.
Interest payments on debt be increased by $0.4 million
for a new total of $117.8 million.
e.
The FasTracks Internal Savings Account be increased
by $5.5 million for a new total of $28.9 million.
f.
The Board-Appropriated Fund be increased by $0.03
million for a new total of $35.1 million.
g.
The Capital Replacement Fund be increased by $0.6
million for a new total of $27.9 million.
i.
The unrestricted fund balance be decreased by $2.4
million for a new total of $13.4 million.
j.
Previously approved capital expenditures be decreased
by $243.9 million for a new total of $843.2 million.
Director Bagley thanked staff for being prudent in coming up
with an Amended Budget that addresses the issues of fare
revenue and sales and use tax being significantly below initial
forecasts.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of ConvergeOne Phone Switch Contract
It is recommended by the Financial, Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to enter into contract negotiations with ConvergeOne for purchase of
Avaya hardware, licenses, installation, and maintenance of RTD’s phone
system. The estimated cost of the Avaya Phone Switch Upgrade of
$865,000 includes installation costs of $355,750 which was approved
in the 2016 Capital Budget and five (5) years of warranty, maintenance
and support of $509,250 which will be included in future operations and
maintenance budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the June 28, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp introduced Brett Feddersen, Manager of Shared
Technical Services, and asked him to provide a brief overview
of the recommendation. Brett Feddersen explained that this
request is to purchase an upgrade to RTD’s Avaya Phone
Switch. He stated the current equipment is between 10 to 12
years old and support expires during the third quarter of this
year. He indicated the upgraded switch will provide more
modern functionality and increase the number of licenses
available, which is needed with the new rail line openings.
This is also a pre-requisite for the Telephone Information
Center to upgrade their software.
Director Sisk asked what staff knew about ConvergeOne in
terms of stability. He wonders if there is any support from
Avaya during our warranty period if ConvergeOne goes out of
business. He expressed concern that a five year warranty is
not worth much if the company is no longer in business. He
urged staff to look at the strength of the vendor. Brett
Feddersen said he would have to look into if Avaya would

provide any coverage but noted ConvergeOne is a premier
Avaya partner.
Committee Chair Menten expressed that the support cost
seemed like a lot of money when compared with the capital
costs. She wondered if there was something staff felt needed
annual support as opposed for paying for on-demand support.
Brett Feddersen shared that the other bid received was $200K
higher.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 3]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.
Committee Chair Menten stated that while she voted yes this evening, she
would like to have additional information about how often RTD needs
support to justify those high costs. She would also like Director Sisk’s
question answered. Heather Copp stated staff would provide the Board with
the answers before the Board Meeting.

C. Updates

• SmartCard Project Update
Heather Copp asked Tonya Anderson, SMT Project Administrator, to review
the highlights of the SmartCard Project Update that was included in the June
14, 2016 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet.
Tonya Anderson noted that since the Update was prepared, staff has
learned some new information related to the external hosting of the SMT
environment. She said that although the report says the next activity will be
deploying the disaster recovery environment that will not be until the
July/August timeframe. She shared that 50 handheld Smart Media Readers
had been deployed with completion anticipated by the end of July. Tonya
Anderson stated that staff is approximately 50% complete with site surveys
for the first Retail point of Sale test locations at King Soopers. AlbertsonsSafeway’s legal department is reviewing the terms and conditions and staff
anticipates receiving comments next week.
Heather Copp reminded the Board that the plan as of the last Committee
meeting was for the web portal to go live at the end of June; however, last
week staff received a security assessment from Xerox and was not happy
with the results. She said the good news is that from a functional

standpoint it appears everything is working very well but based on the
security assessment it is not likely staff will meet the go-live date of June
30. She stated Xerox has committed to producing a new report to identify
any remaining issues by June 29, but this will give staff very little time to
mitigate.
Heather Copp shared that RTD would be hiring a 3rd party assessor to review
the report along with RTD’s Cyber Security Manager. She explained that
staff is very concern that our system is as secure as possible for our
customers because they will be putting their credit card information into the
web portal. She reiterated that staff would not know if the June 30 go-live
date would be possible until receiving the new assessment so she wanted to
apprise the Board of the situation.
Director Hoy pointed out that if Xerox is not providing their report until June
29 it will likely take a third party some time to complete an assessment after
that. He said this review could feasibly take another month or longer.
Heather Copp stated this was why she did not give the Board a new go-live
date. She shared that staff thought they would be given a more detailed
report two weeks ago but were not happy with what was provided.
Director Deadwyler expressed that it was very disappointing that there
continue to be problems with the SmartCard. She wonders if the program
will ever be fully up and running or if RTD should be looking at something
else. She asked how long it took other agencies to implement similar
programs.
Director Lubow inquired as to the lessons learned from this project. She
expressed concern that this report was received at the last minute. Heather
Copp stated everyone has been pushing for this date. She said from a
functional standpoint staff was happy and surprised with the product Xerox
delivered; however, related to security staff had a difference of opinion from
Xerox. She stated Xerox had a delivery date, delivered what they thought
was satisfactory, and staff disagreed. She thinks Xerox is on the same page
now. She explained the reason this just came up is that security must be
tested in the same environment as if it were available to the public which
was not ready until just recently. Heather Copp stated no one was more
disappointed than the team and they would not be letting up.
Director Lubow wondered if perhaps there was a communication lapse or if
this was just an optimistic schedule. Heather Copp stated she did not think
there was but it was something being discussed with Xerox. She said
everyone knew this was an optimistic schedule from the very beginning.
General Manager Genova reiterated that launching the web portal has
always been a very aggressive schedule and said he has been pushing the
team very hard. The team has been working diligently and a lot of hours.

He wishes the Board knew how hard he has been pushing them; however,
he is not going to risk going live with a system that staff is not comfortable
with when it comes to people’s credit cards.
Director Bagley asked staff to explain how the payments to Xerox work. He
thinks Xerox needs to understand that there are no further payments until
the web portal works. He said his sense is that Xerox is not as responsive
as they could be. Tonya Anderson explained that payments are made based
on milestones, for example when they delivered design documents and RTD
staff accepted the document.
Committee Chair Menten thanked staff for making security a priority as no
one wants to have any incidents involving credit card information.

• First Quarter 2016 Performance Report
Jannette Scarpino reviewed the First Quarter 2016 Performance Report that
was included in the June 14, 2016 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet. She noted there were several areas where RTD
or the private carriers did not meet goal, such as safety incidents or level of
customer complaints, but overall both RTD and the contractors are doing
well. She believes some of the lower performing areas will improve as the
operator and mechanic vacancies are improving.
Committee Chair Menten said something notable is the on-time performance
improving for Access-a-Ride. She asked staff to share with those companies
the Board’s appreciation.

• April 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, commented there was still a lot of red on the
dashboard. He said year-to-date sales and use tax was down 4.9%,
ridership was down 5.1% and fare revenue was down 12.5% versus the
budget. He explained when staff presents this next month the numbers
should align better if the 2016 Amended Budget is approved.
Director Bagley thanked staff for being as prudent as they have been in
reference to the sales and use tax and fare revenue. He believes this
demonstrates that the economy is in a lull from the continual up-up-up of
years past. He does not blame the CU Leeds School of business for their
forecasts but it is important that staff reacts. He believes staff has done a
good job reacting. He reiterated that the 2016 Amended Budget
demonstrates that RTD is being prudent from a fiscal sustainability
standpoint.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Menten shared that she and Director Lubow thought it might be
good to have a brief presentation on the Eagle P3 project and financing now that
one of the lines is operational. She said this will be at the July Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 12, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:11 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

