2024-06-10
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. The Monday, June 10th Performance Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 8:30 AM, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that
the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio
and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on The Board's website. During today's meeting, we are also providing communication
access real time translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should
send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would
like access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available
via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek. Dr. Buzek is overseas.
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman indicated that he was unable to rearrange his work schedule, so he
will not be here today. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am director Catlin, Chair of the Committee, and I am present. So we have five
Directors from the committee available, which means we have a quorum. I also would like to note for
the record that we have Director Lewis and Director Ruscha on the Zoom call, as well.
I would like to open the public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If
you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9
on your phones. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.

However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office
at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Executive Board Manager, Mr Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Good morning, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. At this time, I do not see anyone who has raised their hand and desire to provide public
comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you, Mr Kroll. I think there's a little bit of an audio problem with your
connection. I don't know if staff can assist you with that, but you sounded like you were in an echo
chamber. OK. Seeing no one in the queue to speak, did we receive any email comments?
JACK KROLL: No, you did not.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So with no participants in the queue to provide public comment, we will close the
public comment period at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda, and that is for the
committee to adopt the agency performance scorecard recommended revisions. Is there a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Davidson and Director Tisdale. So now I'd like to turn the agenda over to
Debra Johnson, our GM and CEO, and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, to present this item
to the committee. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning to all. I'm Debra Johnson, the
General Manager and CEO. In your packet, you have a performance card recommended action, and
the nature behind this recommended action is to ensure that there is a framework that provides, from a
strategic vantage point as well as an operational vantage point, what the agency is doing in the midst of
being good stewards of taxpayer dollars and delivering on the core business of the agency, which is
transit service delivery.
I will ask John McKay to bring up the agency scorecard. I want to point out that in your packet on packets
page 8 and 9, and going onward, there is a PowerPoint that was used last month when we convened
on May 23rd to orient you all as to how we got here. And so basically, if you can zoom in just a little bit,
John, that would be fabulous. Thank you very kindly.
So what you see before you is the agency scorecard, which is a work in progress. I want to ensure that
we have a collective understanding of how we got here. So to the left, it has performance increase. This
is reflective of the questions in which the full board discussed during the course of its retreat that was
held back in February of 2023.

Most recently, when this body convened, being the performance committee, questions were asked
relative to what is the nexus with the strategic priorities being community value, customer excellence,
financial success, and employee ownership. And in doing so, we have qualified, actually, how we score
going forward. I do want to qualify that while you see a metric here, and it lists annual, I wanted to delve
a little deeper to ensure that there was a collective understanding. While it may say annual and that the
instrument being used to ascertain whether or not the agency is achieving its performance goals, I
wanted to ensure that there was a collective understanding that the individuals that comprise this
agency, me included, all are doing things for the betterment of the agency that basically shapes the
opinions, perceptions and attitudes of those community members and/or customers and/or employees.
So, for instance, when we talk about how has our team delivered value to the community, we talk about
the impression of mechanically safe vehicles, for instance. And in doing so, individuals that may be
running repair mechanics, that may be electromechanics, in the course of their work, and their
supervisors, and so on, basically are doing so many preventative maintenance job orders on a monthly
basis. Those elements, in reference to the course of their work, and in some instances with SMART
goals, being specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time bound, are feeding into the overarching
mission of the agency with its core business of transit service delivery that, in turn, are going to help
ensure that we have an understanding of how the public perceives us.
Another indicator of that is our mean distance between failures, meaning, how many miles can a vehicle
go on the rubber tire side, for instance, before a mechanical breakdown? So these are the elements that
feed into that. On the flip side, while that is a lagging indicator, there are leading indicators. For instance,
there's preventative maintenance software that the agency is utilizing to see if we can extend the mean
distance between road calls.
And so while it may say annual here to garner that perception, opinion, and attitude from the general
populace, that we are looking at that data on a monthly basis to help ascertain, are we going in the right
direction relative to ensuring that we have vehicles that are readily available for our peak service pullout
which complies with other regulatory standards which we have relative to what might be our spare ratio
and things of the like. Going down to how is RTD meeting its customer needs relative to customer
excellence?
And so as we talk about customer impression of personal security, for instance, increase of customers
who feel personally secure while waiting for RTD services. This body-- well, not this body, but The Board,
or The Committee of Operations, Safety and Security will be receiving a presentation from Dr. Chief
Fitzgerald, RTD's police chief. And in doing so, he'll provide some metrics relative to what the agency is
doing. How many checks have they done at the three elevators in the midst of our pilot project?
Recognizing that there have been less calls for assistance.
Those types of metrics are feeding in to the increased impression of personal security, and that actually
is a leading indicator versus a lagging indicator. And so with employee ownership, how well is RTD

attracting highly skilled and engaged job seekers? Metrics that we are utilizing. For instance, there are
individuals within our human resources department that are talent acquisition representatives who are
engaging with potential candidates.
We are utilizing different software like eQuest. We are leveraging the partnerships through agency
memberships, i.e. Conference of Minority Transportation officials, Latinos in Transit, the American Public
Transportation Authority, utilizing different conduits to identify individuals and key demographics so
we're meeting the needs relative to having a diverse workforce. What other mechanisms are we utilizing
to ensure that we're retaining individuals? We've leveraged different trainings such as supervisory and
managerial trainings that provides them with basic elements which are needed to be a more wellrounded manager; things that are honing in on EQ, which is a abbreviation for emotional intelligence;
and other competencies that are needed in reference to ensuring that individuals can be successful at
their jobs.
And so as we move forward, I will yield the floor and see if there's any additional information that you
would like to add, Mr. McKay, relative to the spreadsheet that feeds into what I have just outlined relative
to the individual contributions of the employees collectively of the agency that are feeding in to our
operational strategies that yield a more strategic outlook for the board.
JOHN MCKAY: Nothing specific to the spreadsheet or the inputs to this. I just wanted to call out that this
is the scorecard that's associated with the five year strategic plan. As you'll see in the Board report that
accompanies this, and I'm sure that Debra will get to this in a second, that there will be another scorecard
that staff is developing right now. Like I said, the one before you right now is the five-year scorecard.
There was going to be another scorecard that staff is working on that captures things on a more granular
basis, on an annual basis, or more frequent than that.
That scorecard is predicated on leading indicators. The staff will be able to tell a story, basically, to the
Performance Committee to answer some of the questions that are before you here. So using both of
those, the staff will be able to come before The Committee to respond to the performance inquiries here
to tell a bigger picture based on both quantitative and qualitative data that we'll be bringing forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for that, John. And to the point that Mr. McKay just raised,
that gets back into the point of the discussion that has ensued last month. For instance, if this body
wanted to delve into the nature of how we're delivering service, and how we have decided how many
vehicles we are putting out on the road, what basically does that entail relative to digging down deeply
within, for instance, there's a myriad of different factors when one puts out transit service, for instance?
First, you start with a schedule. So we may be looking at how many revenue service hours we have.
When you start with the schedule and determine how many revenue service hours you need, then you
go to a vehicle. You need to ensure that you have vehicles that are readily available and working. And
so basically, how many vehicles do we need to do that, not just from the perspective of having buses

readily available, but do we have equipment relative to street supervision? Because that's another key
component. We have to ensure that we don't have bus bunching.
Quite naturally, a labor-intensive organization such as the Regional Transportation District, we have to
ensure that we have the complement of individuals that feed into the overarching labor or the people
power to put out said service. And so that drills into what are we doing from the vantage point of ensuring
that we are hiring enough individuals, but going through the training process, looking to see how many
people we actually have in a class for bus operators, for instance, and how many make it through the
training program? And what is that attrition rate?
Then looking more specifically as we go forward into how many individuals that make it out of training
that we have that cross the threshold period of being here more than a year. So all of these are the
different elements that Mr. McKay alluded to when we talk about a more granular scorecard in which
we, as employees, collectively are feeding into for the betterment of understanding how is RTD creating
a welcoming transit environment, or how well is RTD attracting highly skilled and engaged job seekers.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me. I'd like to pause here for a
minute. The action item is to approve the revised Scorecard. And it really helped me, John, and I hope
I'm not putting you on the spot, but it really helped me when you put up a slide the other day to show
Chair Davidson and I the highlighted areas of those that have changed since we last approved this
scorecard. Is that something you have available?
JOHN MCKAY: This is unscientific and it is my own personal cheat sheet, but I can bring it up. So give
me one second.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to highlight that we were noted in the OSA report as having, quote,
"changed the strategic plan." And given that we had charged-DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Catlin, if I may, I would encourage us to not have a discussion about what
is contained in the OSA report. That's confidential.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I stand corrected. But I think this really helped for me to see how we have
adjusted this scorecard as we move forward, and this is what we're asking the Board to approve, or
asking, actually, the Committee to move forward for Board approval.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, John, if you could scroll back up, please.
JOHN MCKAY: Got it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So as we talked about, for instance, if I may, Madam Chair, how is RTD
meeting customer needs? So directly under Customer Satisfaction, you see the word Actual On-Time
Performance highlighted. For those that may be familiar, of which I would expect you to be, within the
transit industry, as we submit data to the National Transit Database, oftentimes in transit agencies, we
factor in on-time performance as being one minute early or five minutes late.

To the general populace, when you talk about actual on-time performance, and if you're five minutes
late, that may not yield optimal results with individuals. And so as we look at actual on-time performance,
we want to see what that actually means from the perception of what we're doing-- so increase of
services that arrive within the current prescribed on-time performance metrics for each mode. So what
we're trying to do is hone in, educate the masses about what actually is on-time performance, and what
is acceptable.
Getting back to customer excellence, once again, the customer impression of personal security on board
vehicles. When this body engaged with staff a couple of years ago, I recognized that all weren't present
or were on the board, but we differentiated between what is personal security and what is safety. Hence,
individuals have a tendency to use those terms interchangeably, but from a transit perspective,
considering our core business is to deliver transit services, we look at mechanical safety as such, and
personal security has to do more with one's environment relative to whether or not do they feel secure.
And so basically, we have qualified what that is, and that falls within the auspices of RTD PD relative to
personal security, but more collectively, what we're doing from the vantage point of crime prevention
through environmental design that has a nexus with our capital programs and facility maintenance, for
instance. And then as we talk about what happens on board a vehicle versus what happens at a transit
area in which they wait, that's when the set tip comes in. And then, once again, perception of system
reliability, because we are asking individuals within the general population to discern what they deem
as system reliability. And it's the increase of customers who agree strongly, or agree that the bus or train
usually runs on time.
And basically, what we're doing is qualifying what that means. And I can walk through these. I just talked
about the impression of mechanical safe vehicles as relates to the mechanical safety aspect of them,
access to accurate and timely service-related information as opposed to just asking a question whether
or not do we have information readily available. Perception of reasonable fares, and all of these things
have been informed by the engagements that we have done through a myriad of different facets, i.e.
The intercepts that we have done on board vehicles, recognizing when we first embarked on this
endeavor back in August of 2021, when this Board adopted the strategic plan, this agency had yet to
have baselines.
So now we are there. More specifically, as we look at how well is RTD attracting highly skilled and
engaged job seekers, we have here a composite index score. Now, this is the average of employee
survey scores related to how engaged, supported, safe-feeling, and understanding how employees
contribute to the agency as opposed to a net promoter score. Because this basically gives us an
understanding how individuals are feeling in the organization, and the different aspects of programs,
initiatives, trainings, and tools, and resources that they have readily available. And then more
specifically, employee alignment with mission and vision, increase of employees.

I may be speaking a little bit out of school here, but I spent the time this weekend actually looking at the
preliminary survey data. And I have to tell you, this body will receive that information at its next regularly
scheduled meeting in July. And I'm proud to say that we really have had individuals that have leaned in,
and we have some great data as it relates to the opinions, perceptions and attitudes relative to the
Composite Index Score.
Also, as we talk about employee professional development opportunities, when we first embarked on
the strategic plan in August of 2021, I had been here probably about 10 months. And difficult decisions
were made prior to me joining the organization whereby our training and development division basically
was eliminated.
And now, we're in a place where we have training, where we have professional development
opportunities whereby individuals are seeking certifications maybe from the Project Management
Institute so they're a certified project management professional, or we are back to investing in employees
to ensure that they remain certified as a professional engineer. And they are not coming out of pocket.
All of those different elements lead to an individual that feels as if they're supported, and they feel as if
they can build a career here at this organization.
Impression of effective internal communications-- those are the things that we were able to garner from
what we call our Employee Ownership Task Force, a group of individuals that are a cross-section of the
organization that volunteered to hone in to come up with initiatives and programs with the support of
managerial sponsors for the betterment of employee ownership here at this organization. And then
another element, as you see here, employees trust the decision making process. And so this gives us
a better opportunity to garner an understanding of where people are going.
And so recognizing while we do have the metric that says annual, these things are ongoing because we
could not sit idly by and just wait for an employee ownership survey to tell us what we're doing. There's
a myriad of different inputs that are happening along the way, and that's what Mr McKay was alluding
to following up on the question posed by our Committee Chair relative to what we're doing and, more or
less, the granular work plans that are part, in some instances, of people's performance plans, and then
in addition to what their core jobs are. So I yield the floor.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just wanted to point out that from the initial scorecard that was presented
when we developed the strategic plan, this has been evolving as needs arise within the agency, and as
staff starts to get a better idea of what it is to measure. So thank you, Mr McKay, for presenting this. It
had not been clear to me until I saw this that that was what we were doing, and I was just slow on the
uptick. But it really helped me to see what was evolving based on the needs of the agency over time.
So that's why we're asking for Committee approval of these adjustments at this point.
I know that you still have more to present, but I just wanted to see if there were any questions of
Committee members before we move on. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, and thanks for the presentation. So we will be doing-- it
sounds like you have the employee survey done. We'll be doing the customer excellence and community
value surveys in the near future?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, would you like to-DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Oh, thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. Director Guissinger.
yes, that is correct. Once again, as a gentle reminder, it generally does not serve any transit agency
well to do surveying as it relates to the summer months, because there's a tend to fluctuation in reference
to transit ridership. And so basically, we are on deck to do that in very early September.
As we move forward, I do want to indicate that the intent is to ensure that we're in alignment with all of
our surveys. And so we look to transition in the April time frame to do all three going forward, because
that's still a key time period before the summer months whereby people aren't in vacation mode. And
that would align with our service change, I should say, where 2/3 of our workforce are basically selecting
their work shifts.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, good. And I think, you know, this is helpful information. I'm looking forward to
what I think is the annual work plan here, the annual report. Because when I hear you talking about all
the metrics, and data, and, you know, mean distance between failures and road calls, and the
information on data and metrics on personal security, that strikes me as what we really need. There was
a statement in the agenda packet talking about the annual scorecard that said it's predicated upon
annual survey data, which is apparently what this one is. Is that the case?
I mean, what I'm hoping to see, and maybe that's a conversation we should have, is the data there.
Where we started with the performance dashboard, a lot of what comes in our board briefing documents,
and then a lot more. I mean, we've had the Accountability Committee, and the state, and others asking
for certain things. So that's what I'm looking forward to seeing. Is that what we're getting in the annual-DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, and I see Mr. McKay has his hand raised, as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: He does. I will yield the floor momentarily after I address the question that was
posed by Director Guissinger. So a couple of things just for everyone's edification. Quite naturally, in
order to run a transit agency, to be eligible for federal funding, i.e. section 5307, we have to collect data,
and we do. And so recognizing this agency hasn't kept that data in one centralized location, what we do
have, and what we have been doing is providing that data in a myriad of different ways.
We have had that information in board briefing documents. I can attest that our modalities specifically
as it relates to our rubber tire service delivery, i.e. fixed route as it relates to rail, as it relates to access
on demand, our paratransit, which we have branded as such, access on demand, we have all that data

readily available. What we're endeavoring to do is ensure that it is in a place that is readily available for
people to digest as we go forward.
To the point that you raised, Director Guissinger, about, we're looking at data from the annual survey,
so we better understand what's happening, that's very much true. Because if we are basically surveying
individuals to ascertain what their perceptions, attitudes, and opinions are, and if we're knocking it out
of the park, and we see some other areas that are critically important, we plot that information, and
they're known what are critical drivers. So we may have to be agile and flexible as we adjust. Hence,
that's why we have strategic initiatives, i.e. Back to basics, people power, and welcoming transit
environment, because we were able to glean that through the last iteration of survey data as we went
forward.
So when we look to leverage that information, we are ensuring that we are taking advantage of getting
that feedback for the betterment of the overarching organization so we can ensure that we are being the
best that we optimally can be by the data sources that we have available. At this juncture, I'd like to yield
the floor to Mr. McKay for whatever information he would like to supplement.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm taking a moment to plug the performance
dashboard, which is available on the RTD website right now. I'm not sure that everyone actually visited
this. We did a demonstration a few Committee meetings ago, but it's at the very start of the RTD website.
If you go to the bottom of the About RTD page, click on the Performance dashboard, and there-- this is,
as I mentioned previously, still in the works. There are more data points that we can add to this, and are
looking to this Committee, particularly, to give us some direction about what other data needs to be
presented here.
But to the point of the survey data, these were buried in the board reports that accompanied the
Performance Committee meetings from the last year. But they are just a few clicks away from the RTD
homepage here. And there's a wealth of data here for interested individuals.
And as I said, this is a work in progress. There are other items that will eventually be able to be seen
here. But if you click on the ridership link, eventually this is Power BI giving it-- doing the background
here. So give it just one moment. But you can see year-to-date figures, monthly figures by mode, things
like that. So this is all at the touch of a button.
LYNN GUISSINGER: John, can you see year-to-date here, or is it-- I looked at that, and it looked like it
says year-to-date, but it's just March.
JOHN MCKAY: I believe it's the way that the data is being presented, but I believe this is the correct
number right down here. And this is as of March 2024. We're a couple months in arrears with the data
that has to be validated from the APCs, the automated passenger counters. So this is the snapshot as
of March 2024.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, if I can just add more insight into that. Thank you very much, John. So to
your point, Director Guissinger, considering that we are in June, as John said, we have to validate this
data because we do submit it to the National Transit Database. And so when one uses automatic
passenger counters, basically, we supplement that with-- what are they called here? For lack of a better
term, they're individuals that sample routes, as well.
So we have checkers, as I call them, at a private agency. It's eluding me, what we call them here. But
they go out and sample those, as well. And we use the APCs, and we take a cross-section so we have
a better understanding of where that is. So to the point that John raised, that data is validated because
then we're looking at farebox data, as well.
And so that's what needs to happen. So when we say to date, it is to date relative to what has been
validated. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody had that understanding, not to mention that we
contract out nearly 58% of our service. And so when you think about that data that's readily available at
the end of the month, we wouldn't dare have May's at this juncture because that is just being compiled,
then it has to be validated to the point that Mr. McKay raised. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right, and I get that, that it's through March. You might take a look at that graph
because it looks like it's just March. So just to clarify that it's the full 335.
PEGGY CATLIN: I read it as being year over year. So it would be a rolling number where you might
have February 2023 to March 2023, and then the next month you would have March 2023 to March
2024. I misstated the first one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I guess that's the question. Because that's what it looks like, but I'm hearing
that this is the first three months' data. Am I hearing that right? That it's not just March. Anyway, it's a
small thing. It's just something you might want to look at after this. I think it's a little bit confusing there.
So, you know, I think we're on the same page. I guess what I'm wondering, and I think that the
performance-- I've got a number of comments on the performance dashboard, but I think it's a really
good start. There's a lot of good information.
So if we're coming up with a new scorecard, an annual scorecard, I guess that's what I'm wondering is,
is this what we're going to be getting? Are we setting KPIs? We talked about that early in the year when
we were looking at the review process. And should this Committee be looking at this sooner rather than
later to advise what we want to see in terms of that annual scorecard?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, if I might interject something before. Director Guissinger, Chair Davidson and I
had some confusion about this, too, which is why we put together kind of a framework for understanding
what rolls up into what. And the annual scorecard Mr. McKay mentioned is under development right

now, and that's kind of the interim step where we will be looking at a lot of those KPIs. Am I correct,
John, that you'll be developing that, and we haven't seen that yet.
JOHN MCKAY: That's correct. Right now, the scorecard in its current contemplation is predicated largely
upon the strategic initiatives that can change year over year. So this allows staff to adjust. We'll get our
annual survey results, and staff will have the opportunity to adjust in real time in order to hit some of the
lower performing responses. If we see that there is an increase in concern about personal security,
things like that, we'll know that we need to deploy resources in a certain area.
And so the annual scorecard, and I'll bring up-- again, this is behind the scenes stuff here. This was not
really intended for public consumption today, but this is the basic formulation on it, and this may, again,
change. So please bear with me, but basically, the strategic initiatives, as you currently know them,
Back to Basics, People Power, and Welcoming Transit Environment. And then down here, these are
items that we're contemplating will need to be discussed at a future workshop among senior leadership,
leadership team, and senior managers, rather, based upon key drivers identified in the surveys.
And if you'll bear with me, I can get to those briefly here.
PEGGY CATLIN: While you're doing that, we would encourage committee members to look at the public
performance dashboard. And any additional data that you would like to see, please go through the
Performance Committee, and we will make suggestions to staff on that. But also, if there are any areas
moving forward that we would like to see a deeper dive into, then this is an opportunity to say, we would
really like to take a closer look at security and what the data indicate on security. There's public
perception in there, and there might be actual data.
So we could make a request of that for this committee. John?
JOHN MCKAY: I'll yield the Director Guissinger if she still has questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I guess this is helpful, John and Deborah. Thank you. And to see, I guess
it's not what I envisioned. After our conversations earlier in the year, I thought we would be looking more
directly at the data and KPIs for that data. And some of the stuff that's in the performance dashboard,
or could be, or should be, or something will be in the performance dashboard, that that's what we need
to be making our decisions and to judge how we're doing as an agency more than-- I mean, the
perceptions are important, but I think just here are our goals, here are how we're doing. But I don't know,
maybe I'm the only one at that point here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you so much, Director Guissinger, for the question. And I think this goes
back to what Director Caitlin was saying-- or Caitlin, excuse me. I apologize. So for all intents and

purposes, when we're talking about the performance committee, this is what I'm seeking from this body
collectively. As Chair Catlin said, there could be a deeper dive.
So if you wanted to ascertain where we are relative to the areas of opportunity regarding bus cleanliness,
then that would be where we delve into the data relative to key performance indicators. How many car
cleaners do we have? When we come in late at night, how many people are collectively vaulting the
vehicles?
Those are key performance indicators, but those are operational in nature. And so when we talk about
the key performance indicators, those are things that we are tracking. The questions we were trying to
answer were those that you all tend to get from your constituents relative to what does it mean holistically
for a bus to be clean, and why may, perhaps, a bus didn't go out in service? Or why does the train
appear to be unclean when it's in revenue service?
There could be a myriad of different factors that fall into that relative to not having people walking through
the contest at the end of the line because we don't have car cleaners readily available. We send out the
cars that are clean, and we can look at the data points relative to how frequently they're doing power
washing and things along those lines. But holistically, when we think about it from a strategic vantage
point, we're not showcasing that here, but we have those data readily available. And so that's what we're
seeking when we go forward.
If a Committee member put forward to the Chair of the Committee that we wanted to ascertain what that
means, then we can do a deep dive relative to our leading and lagging indicators as to how we're getting
to the bus cleanliness as we see that as an area of opportunity. I believe Mr. McKay was talking about
looking at the survey data because when we talk about morphing somewhat, we're not changing our
strategic priorities, but we may be changing our initiatives. Because we know that we may need a laser
focus on bus cleanliness because of the perceptions, opinions, and attitudes toward the buses looking
unclean.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger, did you have a follow-up? I see Mr. McKay's hand is raised. Did
you want to-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just I wanted to highlight to explain for the record how to
interpret this chart here. So this is based on survey data. This is people are asked to weight how much
they care about a thing. Bus frequency, in this instance, is the most important thing for people to-- in
their daily lives as they're responding to these questions.
And we can see that the farther over to the right on the graph, the more important it is to something.
And the higher up on the graph, the y-axis, that means it's something that RTD is doing well, or that
people perceive RTD is doing well. So some of the key drivers here, there's also one for rail. There's
also one for the employee survey.

We know as staff what things we have control over and can place resources behind in order to improve
them or to maintain strengths if they're up above in this top right quadrant here. So these are the things
that are being measured to know-- in addition to the strategic initiatives, these are the other things that
staff is contemplating-- excuse me, I can't talk today-- measuring with respect to the annual scorecard
that's not going to be contemplated in the overall five-year strategic plan scorecard, the performance
scorecard.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to ask a question, and then go to Director Guissinger. Is something like this
going to be included in the public performance dashboard?
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
JOHN MCKAY: That will remain to be seen. It's something that staff is going to have to develop in order
to understand. And this will need to be a work in concert with leadership team and members of the
senior management.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, this is what collectively we need to have discussions relative
to what it is that the Board would like to see collectively. As we go forward, yes, members of staff can
make a determination. But if this is something that's advantageous from a strategic vantage point, we
are amenable to that. But to the point Mr. McKay has raised, we have to see where we are with the
latest survey data as we go forward, and we can showcase what those initiatives are that we are
collectively working on. And those could potentially be incorporated in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, speaking for myself, I probably don't know what to
ask for in some cases. And so having something readily available might spark a question like this key
driver analysis bus. I mean, this is an example of something where, oh, ah-ha, I would like to see this
reported, or I would like to understand this a little better. So that's why I'm wondering if, from a public
facing document, we could have a lot of these data that then could stimulate discussion into the deeper
dive because I'm not sure I know enough what to ask for in many instances. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Why don't you go to Director Davidson? I thought he put his hand up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair, and thanks for the discussion. I thought I'd jump in
here to just kind of offer some of my perspective as I've reflected on where we've landed here. And
thank you, Ms Johnson and Mr. McKay for presenting this.
I think when we set out to make some revisions to the way we're measuring agency performance and
to the scorecard itself, in my mind, what I heard from the retreat and from other conversations this
Committee, there were really three high level problems that we were solving for. One was we have a
number of things that we're measuring in the agency scorecard, or what was previously referred to as

the quarterly performance scorecard in the strategic plan. We have a number of things that are
perception or impression based. And we had this question of what are the directly measured indicators
that feed into and move those?
Another problem that we were, or question that we had on our minds, I think, was, what can we measure
sooner and gain more frequent visibility to agency performance rather than what takes time to be
reflected in surveys? And then the third was, how do we align what we measure and what we report on
with the questions that we hear from the public? And how does the board reflect those back to the public,
being their representative?
So with those things in mind, I think where we're arriving at, what's really helped me is to separate all of
the different efforts and then also acknowledge that this is going to be an iterative process, as much as
I would like to just arrive at where we, quote-unquote, "should be." And so I think just taking stock of
where we are and what problems we're addressing with this strategic plan agency performance
scorecard, what we're looking to adopt today and considering, I think what we've done is some framing
of the questions that the public asks and the things that we discussed at the retreat into those long-term
metrics that we're tracking.
And then there have been some modifications-- for example, going to actual on-time performance as
opposed to the surveyed impression of that. And I think that this then frames up, OK, unlike what was
in the strategic plan, we're better aligning what the reporting cadence can be. And then we're refining to
align to the questions that the board is asking.
Then I think in addition to that, which is not on the agenda today, but I'm glad we've discussed, is the
public facing performance dashboard, which has some more directly measured operational data that
we're choosing to then transparently put forward to the public. And I think what's important there is that's
going to give some indication of what this board, just like what the public might get curious about in
terms of why things are moving one direction or another.
And I would say for the performance dashboard, what I think I'm hearing staff say is that it would be
helpful for this Committee, and therefore, for Board members to route through this Committee, any
requests, and ideas, and consideration, and future discussion of what should appear on that public
facing dashboard, which, of course, is something that, just like the public, this Board has access to.
And then I think that will drive this concept of a third thing, which is these performance inquiries where
this Committee may be doing deep dives on particular areas where there may be myriad other lagging
and leading indicators that the Board will receive, or that this Committee will receive in answer to
particular questions-- safety, security, on-time performance, these kinds of things. And then, perhaps,
that will even inform things that we would like to add to those other two concepts to the public facing
dashboard, as well as to our scorecard over time.

And then there's this fourth concept of the annual scorecards that staff is working on that gives that more
frequent visibility to movement in the agency. So I thought I would just-- it helped me to frame up those
four different concepts in my mind and try to tie them back to those original problems.
So I just offer that to the group, and would say that I'm favorable to voting Yes on the revision to the
agency performance scorecard in the interest of better aligning it to the questions we're asking and
making updates to it that I think improve it from our strategic plan, but then would express my interest
in continuing down the path of those separate efforts which is continuing to build out this public facing
dashboard, which I think is off to a fantastic start. And then staying in the loop on the annual scorecard
development and seeing this committee do some of these deep dive performance inquiries.
So thank you, Madam Chair. I'll yield the floor back with that being stated.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I very much appreciate it. Director Guissinger, did you have a follow-up,
or should I go to Director Tisdale?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do have a follow-up, but go to Director Tisdale. That's great. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'll circle back with you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do note with interest, I'm looking at the
performance scorecard over here from the website, and I really do appreciate this being available to the
public. I think it responds to a lot of questions. Relative to the performance scorecard, we have-- and
when I say we, I'm referring to Finance and Planning Committee Vice Chair Michael Guzman and I-have had a couple of discussions with General Manager CEO regarding an issue that I would like to be
able to have this committee help resolve. And that is the fact that the Finance Committee has put on its
work plan the consideration and creation of a return on investment measure.
And you'll recall we did this, now, I think it's five years ago, and there has been consternation and
confusion associated with that. What Vice Chair and I have suggested is that the Finance Committee
should not engage in that exercise. That is something that, if it is to come forward, should come before
the Performance Committee because it fits directly within the construct of performance. And so tomorrow
night at the Finance and Planning Committee meeting, because that is on our work plan and we will be
discussing it, it will be my discussion with the committee that we would like to defer any consideration
of the ROI performance measure to the Performance Committee. I think it's the most logical place.
And then I would suggest that this committee have a robust discussion whether such a measure is, in
fact, a valid measure, whether it's reliable, and whether it adds value to this process. And it may or may
not. But in any event, I wanted to get that on the table here as we're looking at performance scorecard
and addressing these measures to say, it's really incumbent upon the Performance Committee to
address that question, and not the Finance Committee. And the Chair and Vice Chair of the Finance
Committee are in agreement on that. So that's the first thing.

The second thing is, relative to the scorecard and looking at the measure associated with cost per rider.
And that, I believe, if you go to financial performance, it's operating expense per boarding. I note, for
example, that looking at 2023, it shows operating expense per boarding was $17.15.
I have other information from another source that reflects that we had previously reported that was
$11.48. And I'm just wondering if someone can, perhaps, explain a significant delta between the $11.48
and the $17.15 when looking at operating expense per boarding. And that's my question, and I see that
both the ever-knowledgeable Mr. MacLeod and Mr McKay have raised their hands, so I would be happy,
Madam Chair, to defer to them for a response. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And to your first point, I really appreciate you and Vice
Chair Guzman pointing us in that direction. And if I might deviate a little bit, it occurred to me last night
in the middle of the night that I need to go through the other committee work plans to see those items
that might influence a deeper dive into this Committee's work. Because there are items and action items,
and also, there are reports that come into the individual committees that really are data points that we
might want to see. So thank you for that. I really appreciate it.
So I will yield the floor to Mr MacLeod, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Catlin, and thank you, Director Tisdale, for the question. The
difference between the two sets of numbers-- so the $11 figure is the figure that one would arrive at
using National Transit Database information. This figure that we're looking at here, the $17.15, is the full
cost as reflected in RTD's income statement and monthly financial statements.
The issue with using National Transit Database data is that it excludes certain numbers such as ADA,
depreciation, et cetera. So staff decided this would be a more accurate indication of what it truly costs
under our current results, including the cost of asset wasting, et cetera, by using this higher figure. So
thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. and thank you, Director Tisdale, for asking the question. And this
is why this is a good example of the dialogue that we're having here, because we can put a notation
relative to those other sources recognizing when you use NTD data that we don't have all the same
inputs and drivers as we go forward. So I want to thank you for that, and also acknowledge Director
Tisdale and Director Guzman's opportunity to lean in and have a discussion with me on Friday relative
to getting some kind of guidance relative to having a centralized area in which we would discuss
performance metrics.
So thanks to you, Committee Chair Catlin, as well, as we look at those work plans, because have had
a myriad of conversations with members of the team relative to performance data go to operation safety

and security if we're talking about the stats that Chief Fitzgerald and his team are leading, or what our
Chief People Officer are doing. So look forward to that going forward, so just wanted to acknowledge
the willingness to engage in the discussions to eliminate the angst, and trepidation, and confusion
among staff. So thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And also, to eliminate some of these stovepipe discussions that we really
would like them to all roll up. Did that answer your question, Director Tisdale? Perfect. I see a thumbs
up. Are there any other committee members that have questions before I go to Director Ruscha?
Seeing none, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I, actually, did have a question very similar to Director Tisdale's, and it was
mostly answered by Mr. MacLeod. But just some additional clarification, are the two data sets that were
just mentioned-- or two, I should say, measurements just mentioned-- do they differ from what the state
requires us to also report, or is one of them? Yeah, I'm just going to stop there. Are they different than
what we're also required to report under statute?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, may I?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And thank you. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Thank
you for the question, Director Ruscha. No, the numbers that we are presenting within the dashboard are
the same as what we report to the state. The state requires that an annual comprehensive financial
report and actual is produced. That's our audited financial statements. So these numbers in the
dashboard tie back to the actual that we file with the state.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And-- sorry, is that OK, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, apologize. Thank you. And speaking of footnotes that might also be helpful,
because that was a question I had, and what we are reporting on the latter is much more simple math.
And the first had some more algebra in it. So I think that would be useful just to demonstrate that.
And I just wanted to-- I had a general comment, if the Chair doesn't mind, regarding setting KPIs and
communication between committees. When I was looking through the app, there was an app to
document, and it might have been from a previous training or something, but it was for Board members.
And I was reading it when I first came on this Board, and it noted that some agencies, their committees
of reference will set the KPIs, and then their Performance Committee or equivalent will track or unify
them.
And so I guess I would just say that if the committees are not setting those leading lagging KPI indicators,
then I would just offer that the Performance Committee should, and then kick that back down to us. But
simply because as Committee members, I don't think we'll have the information that we need to make

decisions that we are referring to the committee of the whole if we don't have those measurements on
occasion, just depending on what it is.
And then finally, I just wanted clarification. It sounded like we are moving away from a quarterly report,
and we are going to just do an annual, and that is the plan. And would that also be the same for the
leading and lagging KPIs like the harder data sets that we're talking about here, or would we still get
something on a more frequent basis?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And think I will refer back to Chair Davidson's comment
that this is iterative, and that it will be adjusted as we move along. With regard to the annual versus
quarterly report, would you like to address that, Ms Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And Director Ruscha, to your question, so
while we may have data points that are annual, we are still doing work on a quarterly basis. So we can
delve into that contingent upon what this body would like to see. So while it is iterative, we can still
provide data as we go forward relative to what we are doing collectively as staff to engage and move
the needle relative to the key drivers that Mr McKay pulled up and things of the like.
And Mr McKay has something to supplement my comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to add that I'm looking at the printed scorecard
that was adopted in August of 2021. As you'll note in the information system column, if you happen to
be looking at it, that the survey data is the source of the vast majority of the data points that are captured
in the printed plan that the Board adopted in August 2021. Staff does not have any intent to provide any
less frequent information than is currently provided, and in fact, to do a good job of doing more
information or bringing more data points to the Performance Committee so long as the Performance
Committee asks for that kind of information.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr McKay. Does that answer your question, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Somewhat. I had similar thoughts as Director Guissinger, and I think she covered
it well. So I suppose I will wait and see what comes next. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. With respect to the iterative process, and thank you,
Director Ruscha, for the question about reporting cadence, I think one thing that is incumbent on this
committee to ensure that we do is really get into this cadence of these performance inquiries. And I think
that's going to inform a lot of what we want our future processes, and scorecards, and reporting
cadences to look like. Because I think we can be in a relatively frequent cadence of reporting, but on
different things that will be building out the scorecard.

And I think one thing that dawns on me is that when I look back at our RTD quarterly performance
scorecard from our strategic plan, so many of the information systems that were the sources, as Mr.
McKay referenced, were annual sources. And so I think we're correcting for that here, but then the
Performance Committee, which has historically been doing a little bit of a scramble to work on the
General Manager and CEO performance side of things, which certainly is important. But as we've been
refining that process, it's taken a lot of work to repeat the process every year.
As we get that more dialed in, we have to handle the agency performance side of things, which I think
the performance inquiries will really help. And I suspect that next year, for example, this committee
would be talking about what we've learned from those inquiries and how that might inform both the
reporting cadence as well as other things we might want to add. So I just wanted to offer that again, as
I've had these same questions that Director Guissinger and Director Ruscha, you were alluding to
around how do we get the right visibility, the right level of data? And how much is too much, and how
much do we need?
I think to me, I've concluded that, OK, at least revising where our agency scorecard is to get it corrected
for this quarterly versus annual of what can be measured, and then getting into a process of performance
inquiries will give us a lot more information about how we want to refine process. So thank you for the
time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate your input. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Keying off of what Chair Davidson indicated,
the question is always, how much information is too much, and how much information is really
necessary, and how much is really helpful? I want to go back to a comment that John McKay made at
the end of his last discussion, where he said, so long as the Committee asks for that type of information.
I think hearkening back to what you, Chair Catlin, said about I don't always know what to ask, I think the
point that I would make here is give us the information, and let us say whether, in fact, we think, no, we
don't need to see this rather than saying, well, if the Committee asks for this information.
So it's a style approach in terms of how to present this stuff. And I think that if the information is available,
it's better, in the first instance, to give it to us and to have us say at some point, gosh, you know, actually,
that's probably TMI. So we can address it in that manner.
The second point is, I do want to thank both Debra and John for explaining the difference between the
dollar amounts that I mentioned relative to revenue-- I'm sorry, expense per rider. The important thing
that I would highlight there is you give a great explanation, and I love it. It would perhaps help if on this
scorecard that we have on the website if we annotated that a little bit to explain that this information is
based upon all costs that the agency incurs per rider as opposed to a different measure that, for
example, the National Transportation Safety Board collects in that regard.

And I think it just gives people a better picture of the overall sense. So I thank you for both of those
things.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dr. Tisdale. Good points. John, did you have something in response to
that, or should I go?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Yes, I just did want to clarify, and to Director Tisdale's point, I hear you loud
and clearly. What I was referring to in saying that if the Performance Committee asks for that information,
I meant by way of the performance inquiry. So in a given meeting, it is staff's intent to bring forward
information related to the questions being asked for a given month or a given period. So in the
September 2024 Performance Committee meeting, let's say the Performance Committee Chair and Vice
Chair decide that they wanted to do a deeper dive into one of the two questions related to financial
performance.
That's what staff would be referring to rather than having an encyclopedia of data at the ready at all
times, which we do have available in some sense via the performance dashboard. Staff would be
prepared to speak to some of those things. But not knowing who would need to be available to respond
to those questions, it would be helpful to know what the question is that we are responding to at a given
time. And to your point on the notation about the costs, we will get that taken care of. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, John. Does that direct your concern, Director Tisdale? OK, good. Dr.
Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Thanks for all this conversation. It's very helpful. You know, I
think that the important thing, and I appreciate, John, your point about getting into a deeper dive on
certain things. And I was hearing this, I think from both Chair Davidson and Director Tisdale, as well,
having a scheduled quarterly report that looks at the data-- the stuff in the performance dashboard, the
stuff in the Board briefing documents-- you know, we used to do that. And I think going through that,
where we say, boy, why are we doing so much better on this all of a sudden, and why are we doing so
much worse on this?
And that's what I was expecting to see in the scorecards. And I guess I still-- I don't know if I'm a lone
voice on this, but I still think that that makes sense in terms of how we judge the agency. But certainly,
getting a quarterly report on some of those things, to me, would make a lot of sense. It doesn't have to
take a lot of time, but it gets us to the actual data. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. GM CEO Johnson or John McKay, would you like to
respond to that? I know you were seeking input on what this committee wanted to see, and I think this
is helpful input.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Chair Catlin. And thanks, again, to Director Guissinger.
It gets back on what we want to see going forward. So relative to setting forward the agendas going
forward or to the point that was raised relative to the email that you all disseminated, looking to 2025,

setting that in a work plan. But where we are right now, recognizing in July we would be bringing forward
the employee survey data.
So recognizing we go through that, there could be a conversation that spawned relative to, OK, so you've
heard about employees think that there needs to be greater training. Well, as we look at the various
things that are happening relative to retention, we may do a deeper dive in response to that, for example.
So we need that guidance collectively to address the questions and the data that you need, and
recognizing what Director Tisdale had said earlier, all of these things could come through the course of
discussion.
So we're amenable to that. We just need direction. Because to have every single employee readily
available at a meeting, we need to know in advance so we can be prepared. And just the point of
clarification, as well. Director Tisdale mentioned putting information forward to the National
Transportation Safety Board. It's actually the National Transit Database that we provide ridership data,
so I'm just clarifying that for the record. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I heard that, as well. Well, I don't see any more hands raised for this
discussion. Could I call for a vote on the approval of the revised scorecard? First of all, are there any no
votes from the Committee?
Seeing none, with five votes in favor and two members absent, the motion will be carried forward to
present to the full board. Thank you very much. Now I need to find my place on the agenda.
We do have a discussion item under other matters, and that's the work plan check-in related to the GM
CEO compensation analysis and 360 evaluation tool procurement. So I'll ask Mr. Kroll, Board Office
Executive Manager, to present this item to the committee. But just by reference, I ask that we include
the RFP for the procurement effort as well as a timeline.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification, Madam Chair. For my understanding, there was not a request
for proposal that was done. There was a request for quotes. They're different types of solicitation, so I
just wanted to ensure that we're cognizant of that.
PEGGY CATLIN: For the record, yes, I appreciate that. I did note that, as well. As I read through the
scope, I just misspoke. OK, Mr. Kroll, please, the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin, And this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. I circulated an email on Friday afternoon following the publishing of the agenda packet for
today's meeting that contains some very important information. And if you all haven't had the opportunity
to refer to that email, please do so. I'm going to run through quickly primarily the contents of that email.
You all, in agreeing to the Seventh Amendment to the GM and CEO's term contract, committed to
conducting a total compensation analysis. Additionally, in January, you also adopted the GM and CEO's
performance assessment framework, which called, in part, for a 360 review to be conducted. As such,

the Board Office, in consultation with Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, endeavored to put out a
request for quotations to firms who could provide those services.
Those firms have until June 20 to provide quotes, and we anticipate having a firm on board by the end
of this month to conduct that work. However, that work, particularly as it relates to the 360 review, will
require a significant amount of time and energy from committee members to develop several items
related to that 360 review, not the least of which are the assessment tool and the various questions that
will be asked during the 360 evaluation, but also the composition of the 360 review panel. Both of those
items have to be developed in consultation with the selected firm, and, obviously, with the GM and CEO.
So I've updated the Committee's work plan to place into specific months items related to the 360 review,
and I'd like to share that now. These items, it should be noted, have been on the Committee's work plan
since you all approved it, but they weren't necessarily placed into a specific month. And if I could just
get some verbal confirmation that you all can see my screen. Is that the case? Can you see the screen
here?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can see it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JACK KROLL: All right. So here in July, you'll see items highlighted in blue related to the 360 review.
You'll need to come together, and your meeting date is scheduled for July 1st. These dates should be
considered-- or these items on the work plan should be considered penciled in, as it may very well likely
be the case that you're going to need additional working sessions to get through this. But as you can
see, the two items I referenced here specifically discussing the review panel, so who will the 360
evaluation be sent to for input. And then additionally, the development of the actual customized
questions for that 360.
Then moving forward-PEGGY CATLIN: If I might interrupt. I'm sorry, Jack. You mentioned earlier that the quotes are due June
20, and we hope to have someone on board by the end of the month. Although I was concerned when
I read through the request for quotes that we have a 90-day period by which we have to enter into an
agreement and I thought, well, we have to be done with this work in 90 days. But anyway, that's just a
minor-- I think that's a boilerplate piece.
But given that we have a tight frame on getting this consultant on board, would they be prepared initially
to meet on July 1st with us?
JACK KROLL: That's why I wanted-- that's a great question, Committee Chair Catlin. I wanted to flag
the fact that this meeting date is so early in July, and that's why we're also-- the Board Office, following
this meeting and this discussion, is going to solicit a host of availability from committee members
throughout July, August, and into September. And so while these meeting dates are highlighted here at

the top of this work plan of each kind of grid pertaining to that month, I think the reality is that this
committee is going to have to meet more often than is listed here to get through these.
And our intent in soliciting your availability over the next three months is to provide the consultant, as
soon as they are brought on board, a list of available dates with which they can check their calendars
and get something scheduled for you all to work, or get several items scheduled-- excuse me, several
meetings scheduled for you all to connect. Does that address your question, Director Caitlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just was concerned about that compressed time frame. I don't want to
protract this any longer than it needs to be, but I just wanted to check the reality of that schedule. Thank
you.
JACK KROLL: And I appreciate you putting some emphasis on that. Because if you all are going to get
through this work and get through the work in a manner that behooves the importance of it, or matches
the importance of it, there's going to need to be a great deal of work done over the next few months. So
highlighted in green here is the first item related to your compensation analysis that you committed to
do. Per the terms of the 7th Amendment to the GM and CEO's contract, you all are to conduct a total
compensation analysis, and then take any appropriate action on that as necessary by October.
As such, the firm that will be selected has been informed in the RFQ that we put out, and the statement
of work that's in that RFQ, that they need to conclude their work on the compensation analysis by August
31st so that they are in a position to present their findings on the compensation analysis on the
September 9th meeting. Additionally, the subsequent follow-up to that is going to be in October, and
that is agendized here. You can see that any appropriate action being taken by the committee occurring
in October.
Stepping back to the 360 assessment, in September, you all will be asked to just review the final draft
tool. And then in October, the actual results of that assessment will be presented. So-- excuse me, I got
that wrong. There's a review of the tool, then the final draft tool review. And then in November, in
concordance with the GM and CEO's evaluation and assessment timeline, you would review the results
of that. So my apologies for that mistake there at the end with the timeline.
So there's a lot there that will be coming your way collectively. I'm going to stop sharing my screen. I
just want to give some basic facts about the RFQ before I open it up to Chief People Officer Polege to
provide any further input that I might have missed. And I think she's on the call. Yes.
So to date, on Friday, the RFQ had been viewed 240 times, downloaded 19 times, and has 10 followers.
With most of our procurement endeavors, we receive a bulk of the responses either the day before or
the day of the actual deadline for those responses to be provided. So when we get to that point, I will be
in touch with Committee Chair Catlin, and obviously, CPO Polege to provide further information on the
amount of proposals we received.

PEGGY CATLIN: Chief People. Officer Polege, would you like to add anything to that? I believe you're
on mute.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Is this better?
PEGGY CATLIN: Much better. Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Wonderful. Good morning. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. The only thing
I would add-- I think Mr. Kroll has done a good job of summarizing. The only thing I would add is that
the more meetings that could be pre-scheduled in advance, like as a hold, the better because we are
on tight timelines. And we are working with a third party, or two third parties. Because there was the
potential for one vendor to do both, or we could have two separate vendors.
So I think it's critically important, and we want to be proactive to get time at least held over the next
coming months, recognizing that all of those meetings may not be necessary. But we want to ensure
that we are proactive so that we can be certain that the Board, the Performance Committee in particular,
has the input that they're looking, and that is required in order to facilitate these two projects. That's all
that I would add. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate that. Are there any questions of committee members? Director
Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I recognize that I am probably a lone voice
on this particular element of the compensation review, and to inventively say the train has probably
already left the station. Looking at page 12 of the RFQ, in paragraph 1, it recites that the analysis relates
to being externally market competitive aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit
agencies and related public and private sectors where executive talent may reside.
Just because I feel the need to make a record on this, I believe that the appropriate standard ends after
the phrase, aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit agencies, and that looking at
public and private sectors where executive talent may reside goes far beyond what we, as the elected
representatives of our constituents, should be doing in a compensation analysis.
As I say, I know there's been discussion about this in the past. I know that, at least as my recollection
serves, a majority of this Committee and the Board want to spread a wider net. I just wanted to be put
on the record that I think that we compare ourselves with comparable public transit agencies, and not
to the industry as a whole, to all industries where executive talent may reside. Thank you very much,
Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Ms. Polege, would you like to respond to Director
Tisdale's concern?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. I would just like to say, thank you for that comment, Director Tisdale. I
would just like to say that that language is an exact replication of the compensation philosophy for the

GM and CEO that was approved, but I do respect your comments. But that is where that language came
from.
I also want to just reiterate, again, that the private sector, again, would still need to be a comparable
agency, so comparable business. So it's not all private broadly. It still needs to be comparable size,
scope. So I just also want to state that because I know we've discussed that, as well. But I appreciate
the comment. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Mr. Kroll, do you have a comment?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. I was just going to respond, as CPO Polege did, by
pulling up here. And you can see I've pulled up the compensation philosophy that you all approved last
fall. And this item specifically was taken from this first bullet point here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other comments from Directors? Committee members? I
would like to point out that there will need to be a commitment from some of the Committee members
about participation in this process, particularly with the 360 review and the development of questions,
as well as working with the GM CEO in identifying those people that should be surveyed. So there will
be a commitment.
And as Executive Board Manager Jack mentioned, they will be canvassing or finding out what Directors'
availability are for this effort. And I would encourage those of you who are interested to work with Mr.
Kroll and his staff to figure out what the commitment would need to be, and if you are interested in
participating. And I would encourage as much participation as we can given the summer schedules. And
I know that's tough, but I would really appreciate Committee members' availability and commitment to
participate in this very important process.
Are there any other thoughts? Any other comments about that? Seeing none, I've lost my place here
again. Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
Our next meeting, as was pointed out, is scheduled for July 1st. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I think it's said in the packet and in the meeting that I'm very pleased with
the way the performance dashboard is coming along. But I do have some suggestions, and you said
you wanted them to go through this committee. Is that for another meeting, or is that for written
submission, or how do we do that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Either written, or pick up the phone and call, and we can have a discussion. I mean, I
think, as was pointed out, we're going to be getting the employee survey results in the July meeting.
And I think that might provide some thought from committee members as to what they might like to see
in addition to that survey information. as far as discussion items for the committee going forward. Ms.
Johnson, please.

JACK KROLL: Yes, thank you so much, Madam Chair. If I may offer up recognizing the question that
Chair Guissinger posed, if those questions are submitted to you, I would encourage them to go to the
Board Office, as well, with a copy to me and to Mr. McKay so we're cognizant of what it is, since we're
going to have to ensure that we're all in alignment with the path forward. So if that could be done, I would
greatly appreciate it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that reminder, and that makes perfect sense. Although I don't know why
you wouldn't want it just sprung on you the day before. [LAUGHS] I'm sorry. All levity.
All right. Well, we'll await the Board Office's survey of calendars for the work in July. But in the meantime,
the next meeting date is scheduled for July 1st of 2024. And as a reminder, this work plan is a bit fluid,
as was pointed out. And these items are subject to change. But unless this changes, I look forward to
seeing everybody on July 1st. And with no further discussion or agenda items, the meeting is adjourned
as of 10:01 AM Mountain Daylight Time. We almost made it by 10:00. [LAUGHS]

