Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 14, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13,
2012.

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Daly; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, McMullen Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.
Directors Cohen and Deadwyler arrived late.

Board Member
Absent:

Chair Kemp and Directors Gore and O’Boyle were absent

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, David Genova, Kenn Hardin,
Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Cory Granrud, Dale Honor, Mark Rush,
Michael Washington

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, Damien Casey, ZG Czupor, Martell Dyles Claudia Folska,
Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, L. Skip Brown, Sherman Hamilton, Gary
Lasater, Dave Lewis, Judy Lubow, Johanna Medina, Daniel Pearsall,
Gene Putman, Christian Reitter, Jacob Riger, Roger Sherman, Jeanne
Shreve, Marta Sipeki, Tim Stokes, Karen Stuart, Monte Whaley
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Recommended Actions
 Federal Liaison Services Contract Renewal
It is recommended by the RTD Government Relations Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement
(for federal liaison services) with Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year
option (February 1, 2013 through January 31, 2014) to extend Contract No.
19-DX-001, at a cost of $246,000. Funding for this contract is included in

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Page 2 of 5
the 2013 budget.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director McMullen said that Patton Boggs LLP has been
absolutely fantastic in Washington. They know what it takes to
get the necessary work done and they get it done.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 10
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Director Cohen and
Deadwyler arrived late and Chair
Kemp and Director Gore and
O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Daly declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Local Government Liaison Contract Renewal for 2013
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for Local
Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) to exercise a
one-year option (January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013) to extend
Contract No. 11-DX-001, at a cost of $90,000. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2013 budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director McMullen expressed what a great relationship CRL has
with the local government officials. He believes that they are

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Page 3 of 5
the best at what they do and wholeheartedly votes for this
extension.
Director Hoy stated that CRL has done some very good
community outreach. He expressed that the personnel at CRL
have been great.
Director Cohen shared that he has always been impressed with
CRL’s level of outreach, engagement and communication with
the Board.
Director James also expressed his appreciation of CRL,
especially Roger Sherman. He stated that he will vote for this
contract extension as well.
Director Tobiassen echoed the kudos of the other Board
members for the work CRL does. He expressed his appreciation
to Roger Sherman and Maria Garcia Berry for coming to Aurora
and working with the city government and community leaders.
Director Bagley stated that he is very appreciative of the work
done by CRL in the past year. He looks forward to working
with them. Director Bagley stated they do exemplary work.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 11
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Director Deadwyler arrived
late and Chair Kemp and Director
Gore and O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Daly declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.

II.

Updates
 State Legislative Update
Jennifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry-McKenna provided the Board with an
update on the election. She stated that it was a banner year for Democrats in
Colorado. She explained that the Democrats now have a 37 seat majority in
the house. The magic number is 33. Jennifer stated that the last two years
the House was Republican controlled but only by a one vote majority. She
shared that Democrats had elected Mark Ferrandino as Speaker of the House,
Dickey Lee Hillinghorst as Majority Leader, Dan Pabon as Assistant Majority

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Page 4 of 5
Leader, Lois Court as Caucus Chair, Dominick Moreno as Deputy Caucus
Chair, Beth McCann as Whip and Su Ryden as Deputy Whip.
Jennifer explained that each of these Democratic House leaders’ districts
encompass an area that includes RTD Districts. She believes this will help us
in our ability to be successful in passing some potentially big bills.
Jennifer shared that House Republicans had elected Mark Waller as the
Minority Leader, Libby Szabo as Assistant Minority Leader, Kathleen Conti as
Caucus Chair and Kevin Priola as Caucus Whip. She explained that other
than the Minority Leader, all of the minority officers are within the RTD
District as well.
Jennifer stated that the Senate numbers stayed exactly the same. The
Senate has a Democratic majority. She shared that Senate Democrats had
elected John Morse as President, Morgan Carroll as Majority Leader, Irene
Aguilar as Assistant Majority Leader, Jeanne Nicholson as Caucus Chair and
Gail Schwartz as Majority Whip. She also said that Mary Hodge and Pat
Steadman were elected to the Joint Budget Committee. Jennifer explained
that this is a very Metro oriented group that has been very easy for her and
Julie McKenna to work with.
Jennifer said the Senate minority is the same as last year. They elected Bill
Cadman as the Minority Leader, Mark Scheffel as the Assistant Minority
Leader, Scott Renfroe as the Caucus Chair and Kevin Grantham as the
Minority Whip.
Jennifer stated that the Senate did not have significant changes this year.
Both Morse and Carroll had leadership roles prior to this election and the basic
structure is very similar.
Jennifer explained that the committees probably will not be appointed until
after the Thanksgiving break but they anticipate many of the people they
have worked with in the past will be either chair or remain on the
committees.
Jennifer informed the Board that her team would be calling on them to meet
with new or key members of the legislature. She said she knows many of the
Board members have close relationships with their members but with the new
people and the fact that RTD may have a potentially large legislative agenda it
will take a team effort.
Director Bagley asked for the break-down of the numbers in the Senate.
Jennifer stated that there are 20 Democrats and 15 Republicans with the
number needed for a majority being 18.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012
Page 5 of 5
Director Malpiede thanked Jennifer and her firm for the outstanding
communication. She shared that immediately after the election she received
an email outlining all of this. Director Malpiede said it helped her have a
dialog with constituents out in the community.
Director McMullen stated that Brandeberry-McKenna’s work has been stellar.
He believes they have helped the organization immensely.
Director Tobiassen said that he knows many of the legislators have town hall
meetings on a regular basis. He asked Jennifer if her team could get a list of
those meetings so Board members could arrange to attend. Jennifer said
they would compile the information. She also shared that she knows Director
Tobiassen is in his District frequently and his legislators respect him greatly.
Committee Chair Daly asked if Speaker of the House Frank McNulty was term
limited. Jennifer explained that Representative McNulty chose not to run for
a leadership position.


Local Government Update
Roger Sherman shared that in the election, every Incumbent County
Commissioner was re-elected. He said that CRL has begun reaching out to
the new Commissioners and begin meeting with them in the next few week.
He also shared that his team has started contacting the new RTD Board
members to work with them through the transition.
Roger explained that across the District, every de-Brucing and school tax
measure were successful. He shared that the one transportation issue in
Aurora was not successful. This was a well funded campaign to extend an
existing tax. He said this was a surprise as the internal people on that
campaign expected it to pass.

III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – December 4, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 5:51 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee.

