Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 21, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Rosalie L. Hankus – Executive Assistant to the General Manager and CEO – 39 years
Debbie Mills – Customer Service Division Representative – 24 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 24, 2015

X.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of April 9, 2015

XI.

Chair's Report

XII.

General Manager's Report

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale, including
execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents for the purchase of the
real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn Property”).
B.

Budget Transfer Authorization for CAD/AVL-Radio Purchase

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the transfer of
$483,000 of previously approved capital funds to purchase twenty-on (21) CAD/AVL radio kits for expansion buses.
C.
Increase General Counsel's Settlement Authority to Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act Claim Limits
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the District up to
the limits provided in the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.

XIV. Recommended Action
D.

Station Names on North Metro Rail Line

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and approve the revised final station names for the North Metro Rail Line: 48th &
Brighton Blvd at National Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd; Northglenn•112th;
Original Thornton•88th; Thornton Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and
North Thornton•Hwy 7.
E.

Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit facilities
in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be
designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as
Downtown Boulder Station.

F.

Authorization to Execute a Budget Transfer to Purchase Thermal Printers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in an
amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in order to purchase and install
the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed fare
structure.
G.
Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and /or Thermal
Printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
First Amendment to the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the Certificates of
Participation, Series 2013A.
H.

Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2016 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. There are 23 specific performance measures in total.

XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Old Business
XVII. New Business
XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

