Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 31, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Debi Drewes – Legal Assistant – 17 years
Robin K. Elliott – Supervisor of Contracts and Budget – 32 years
Casandra Santos – Sales Supervisor – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Francone
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 19, 2016

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Nominating Committee
for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional
three-year term and appoint five new members to the Committee to a three-year term.
B.
Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park and Ride Pedestrian Bridge Painting
& Rehabilitation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract
amendment with TMI Coatings, Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract
Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride (PnR) Pedestrian Bridge Painting &
Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration of the adjoining access
ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74
C.

Pass Program Working Group

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the Pass Program Working Group objective, commitments
and guiding principles.
D.

2015 CAFR and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
E.

Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ amending the Salaried Employee
Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan to
provide for appointment of the same four employee trustees for each of the plans, with
two trustees being employee participants in the Pension Plan, and two being employee
participants in the Defined Contribution Plan. The resolution further provides that the three
existing employee trustees serving both plans remain as trustees with revised termination
dates to assure continued staggered terms, and that a fourth employee be appointed to
replace retired trustee Marla Lien.

F.
Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Motorola Solutions for Purchase of
Radios (56DH012)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a $940,000 sole
source contract with Motorola Solutions(Motorola) for purchase of mobile, portable and
tower radios and associated equipment (Contract Number 56DH012). This contract will
include an option for a 3-year extended warranty.
G.

2016 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations
and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a
one-year option (June 30, 2016 through June 29, 2017) to extend Contract No. 13-DX00, at a cost of $122,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
I.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A
It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks
Projects), Series 2016A.
J.
Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed
for certain expenses relating to the financing of buses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), expressing the
intent of the Board to be reimbursed from a future financing for certain expenses relating
to the acquisition of buses.
K.

August 2016 Service Change Final

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2016 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $537,935 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

