1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 31, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Tobiassen asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:27 PM
5:29 PM
5:30 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:28 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:23 PM
5:33 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:29 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:29 PM

Barbara McManus called role. There were fifteen (15) members present at roll call.
Director Deadwyler left early.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina Callahan, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Debi Drewes, David Genova,
Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus, Doug Monroe, Brenden
Morgan, Mike Nabhan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mike Peters, Scott Reed, Cal
Shankster, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter

Public Present:

Helen Atkeson, Dan Burke, Gerry Cotton, Julie Deden, Corey Delizza,
Beth Dickinson, Sherman Hamilton, Emily Kelley, David Kreutzer, Sam
McKenzie, Michelle Médal, Zach Miller, Mike Newman, Matt
Silverman, Alan Streater, Janet Streater, Shane Tempel, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn

Retiree Awards
Chair Tobiassen noted there were three retirees this month with one in attendance.
Rolf Asphaug, Acting General Counsel, recognized Debi Drewes, Legal Assistant, for her
17 years of service. He noted that she worked on the floor below the Board Office and
Board members might have heard her cheery voice on occasion. At times she had to
speak at length with constituents who were unhappy with RTD but every time she won
them over. Debi is also one of the most fascinating people the legal department has ever
known; Debi knows Bruce Springsteen personally, and that is only one small aspect of her
amazing life. She will be missed in the legal department as she has always gone beyond
what she is required to do. On her last day she worked late to help with a PEC matter
because it needed to be done. Debi is and has been an extremely loyal and dedicated
employee.
Debi Drewes shared that she came to RTD as a temp in the legal department and within a
week she felt at home, and within a few months RTD felt like family. RTD has the
greatest group of people, which is quite extraordinary in the business world. Debi thanked
the Board and Staff for the wonderful opportunity she had.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Tobiassen stated pubic participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
 Dan Burke, Centennial, noted that the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado
(NFBCO) has six chapters within RTD’s service area with hundreds of members.
His concern was over the April 19th ADA Safety Day, which was a very frustrating
experience for the 25+ members of the NFBCO who attended the event. He added
that the issue boils down to training for staff. On that particular day individuals
carrying white canes were consistently grabbed. The NFBCO wants to continue to









work with RTD and wants to share the videos of that day as training videos for
staff. The videos will help staff understand how to work with blind individuals
effectively and respectfully.
Emily Kelley, Boulder, was here with several of her fellow riders who commute from
Boulder each day to discuss the elimination of the Dartmouth and Broadway bus
stop. She shared that she has taken the bus from the Dartmouth stop for the past
eight years and it would be inconvenient if that stop is removed. She added that if
the stop is removed she will be forced to drive to one of the Park-n-Rides that
quickly fill up. She stated that as a full time working mom of a one year old she
would appreciate having the convenience of the bus stop so that she does not have
to spend her time commuting.
Michelle Médal, Boulder, indicated that she has been riding the bus from Boulder for
the past six years for her job at CU Denver. She added that she drives across
Boulder every morning in order to park at the Dartmouth Park-n-Ride. She noted
that there are not any other places to park her car on Broadway because the 27th &
Broadway stop was removed and Baseline & Broadway does not have parking. She
stated it would be a burden and potentially dangerous to get to the Table Mesa
Park-n-Ride in morning traffic. She further added that if she was forced to go to
the Table Mesa Park-n-Ride she and her other Dartmouth fellow riders would have
to drive around in circles to find parking, climb four flights of stairs and then cross
a bridge to get to the bus. She stated having the bus stop at Dartmouth takes only
a few seconds and there are usually several people boarding.
Matt Silverman, Boulder, explained that he has been riding the bus from Boulder to
Denver on a daily basis since February of 1976. He indicated that the Flat Iron
Flyer is a big improvement to the bus service but urged the Board to keep the
Dartmouth Park-n-Ride. He added that the vast majority of people who live in
Boulder are north of Dartmouth and this Park-n-Ride is the closest for the majority
of Boulder residents. The other Park-n-Rides at 40th & Broadway and Table Mesa
would require additional driving. He thanked the Board for their time and for their
consideration to keep this convenient and environmentally sensitive Park-n-Ride
open.
David Kreutzer, Boulder, thanked Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, and Director Sisk for their continuing correspondence regarding the
Dartmouth stop. He pointed out that previously there was a sign identifying the
Dartmouth stop as temporary, which he thinks caused confusion and discouraged
ridership from that location. He appreciates RTD removing the temporary sign to
eliminate any confusion. He further added that while the Flatiron Flyer (FF) total
travel time is important, it is not as important as the total travel time for customers.
Nationwide there is a big push for mass transit agencies to solve the last mile
problem. He noted that the old BX route solved the last mile problem by stopping
frequently enough so that people did not have to drive or ride their bikes. By









decreasing the number of stops significantly RTD is creating a last mile problem,
especially since the two local buses, the SKIP and the DASH, either pass a FF stop
significantly or do not run frequently enough. He said once people get in their cars
they may just continue driving to Denver. Other people may ride their bikes which
would lead to more bikes on the buses which would be time negative.
Janet Streater, Boulder, commented that RTD has closed a number of Regional
Park-n-Ride bus stops in South Boulder for the Flatiron Flyer. South Boulder has
working class neighborhoods, and the recently closed stops have been used as
Regional stops by RTD customers for over 30 years. She added that closing these
particular stops is problematic for riders as it creates a 1.2 mile stretch without a
Regional stop or a connecting high frequency bus. She believes this is why the City
of Boulder has submitted a formal request to reinstate these stops. She added that
while the Dartmouth stop has been restored on a temporary basis, she hopes it will
become permanent. She noted that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration facility in Boulder will be expanding its workforce in 2017 and that
site borders the Dartmouth stop.
Alan Streater, Boulder, noted that he has supported efficiency and the bus system
in general for a very long time. He commented that if RTD were to search its
historical records it would find his correspondence complaining about the
Broomfield and Church Ranch Stops. He added that he purchased his home
because of the Dartmouth stop and there are good reasons to keep that stop on the
Flatiron Flyer schedule. He further added that there were other options to achieve
efficiency, such as paying in advance prior to boarding.
Zach Miller, Boulder, commented that he is an environmental lawyer and has been
riding the bus to downtown Denver since 1981. He added that like most of his
neighbors, he purchased his home in the Martin Acres subdivision because at the
time and it was affordable. Now, one of the selling points realtors use is that this
subdivision is very pedestrian friendly because of the nearby RTD stop. He noted it
is disconcerting to the neighborhood as a whole that all of the sudden this bus stop
is going to disappear, subsequently eliminating all of the bus stops between Base
Line Road and Table Mesa. He mentioned if this stop is eliminated riders will have
to go for another half mile before they can get off of the bus. Additionally, the
schedule to Denver is not posted and there have been a few instances where bus
drivers drove past the Dartmouth stop with people waiting. The combination of
these items has discouraged riders from utilizing the Dartmouth stop.
Elizabeth Dickinson, Lafayette, explained that she had already emailed her District
representative but wanted to share her experience of the Route L with the Board.
She noted that for the second time she is leaving the L bus in favor of catching the
Flatiron Flyer in Superior. She said that the L bus takes 2.5 to 3 hours a day to
commute to Denver. The reason for the lengthy commute is the multiple stops and
the prolonged wait of 9 minutes at each stop, even if no riders are getting on or

off. She hopes that the schedule can be tweaked to make the Route L a better
commute.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Francone
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Lasater
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Chair Tobiassen
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Chair Tobiassen
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone noted that the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee met last Tuesday. General Manager Genova provided the
committee with task and core goals which will be reviewed again and hopefully finalized at
the June 28, 2016 Board meeting.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 19, 2016
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve the Board Meeting minutes of
April 19, 2016.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 15 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler,
Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 0 opposed.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Tobiassen provided the following report:
Attended Events and Awards
 April 21– The Train to the Plane University of Colorado A Line VIP Reception
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Sisk, Solano,Walker)
 April 30 to May 3rd – APTA Board Member/Board Support Seminar in San
Antonio, TX (Anderson, Hoy, Klaas, Walker)
 May1 – State of Downtown Denver (Bagley, Tobiassen)
 May 11 – Aurora State of the City: Envisioning the Future with Mayor Steve
Hogan (Folska, Francone, Tobiassen)
 May 13 – Armed Forces Recognition Luncheon at the Doubletree by Hilton
Denver Hotel (Folska, Tobiassen)
 May 15 – APTA Bus and Paratransit Conference in Charlotte, NC (Bagley)
 May 17 – Leadership Roundtable with Secretary Foxx (Chair Tobiassen and
General Manager Dave Genova)
 May 25– COMTO 11th Annual Scholarship Awards (Folska, Solano, Tobiassen)
Ongoing and Upcoming Events






X.

June 13 – CDOT Press Conference for completion of US 36 Express
Lanes at Davidson Mesa (Sisk)
June 13– US 36 Completion Ceremony at the Roadhouse Boulder Depot
(Hoy, Lubow, Sisk)
June 13 to15 – Accelerate Colorado in Washington, D.C. (Folska,
Francone, Tobiassen)
June 19 to 22 – APTA International Rail Conference in Phoenix, AZ
June 19 to 22 – ADA Symposium in Denver, CO (Deadwyler, Tobiassen)

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Attended the Visit Denver Board Meeting on Wednesday, April 20, and presented
on RTD’s five openings in 2016


























Attended the Metro Chamber Economic Development Council Meeting on Thursday,
April 21, and presented on RTD’s five openings in 2016
Spoke at Delwest and Park Hill Station Grand Opening Event on Thursday, April 21
Met with DJ Mitchell, BNSF Assistant Vice President of Passenger Operations, on
Monday, April 25
Presented to a group of business leaders, elected officials and transit professionals
representing Downtown Charlotte, NC on Wednesday, April 27
Spoke at DRCOG awards dinner on Wednesday, April 27, where RTD was part of
the team for 2 awards
Spoke at Mass Transit for the Denver Region – “Timing is Everything” event on
Thursday, April 28
Met with Longmont Mayor Dennis Coombs and Longmont City Council on
Thursday, April 28, with Director Lubow and staff to discuss the B Line
Attended Vulcan Foundation/Smart City Challenge meeting with Mayor Hancock
and other leaders on Friday, April 29
Met with Director Francone, Bill Farris of NREL, and Jefferson County
Commissioner Donald Rosier on Monday, May 2, regarding I-6 grant opportunity
Attended the Visit Denver Government and Community Affairs Committee Meeting
on Wednesday, May 4
Attended the I-225 Executive Partnering Session on Wednesday, May 4
Attended a Colorado Cross Disability Coalition Meeting on Monday, May 9
Attended the State of Downtown Denver Event on Tuesday, May 10
Spoke at the Southeast Rail Extension Ground Breaking on Tuesday, May 10
Presented a RTD Safety Award to the Platte Division for reducing the number of
preventable accidents on Wednesday, May 11
Presented at the Building America Transportation Investment Center (BATIC) P3
Webinar on Wednesday, May 11, on the Eagle P3 project
Attended the North Metro Rail Elected Officials Briefing on Thursday, May 12
Spoke at the Inter-Neighborhood Cooperation (INC) Transportation Committee
Meeting on Thursday, May 12
Attended a 16th Street Mall Partners Meeting on Monday, May 16
Presented, along with Director Sisk, at the Louisville City Council Meeting on
Tuesday, May 17, regarding the B Line
Met with Boulder County Commissioner Elise Jones and Lafayette Mayor Christine
Berg on Monday, May 23
Met with Harold Dominguez, Shawn Lewis, Phil Greenwald and Heather Balser from
the staffs of the City of Louisville and the City of Longmont on Thursday, May 26,
regarding B Line discussion
Spoke at the COMTO 11th Annual Scholarship Award luncheon on Thursday, May
26

Director Bagley indicated he wanted an update regarding the 16th Street Mall project. He
asked where RTD stands with the City and County of Denver (Denver) and Downtown
Denver Partnership (DDP) regarding the five weekends in June and July that the 16th
Street Mall Shuttle would be diverted. General Manager Genova reminded the Board that
there are five weekends when the Mall Shuttle will be operated on 15th and 17th Streets.
There are a number of activities that the City and County of Denver, as well as the
Downtown Denver Partnership, will be doing on those weekends to test various types of
activations along the Mall.
Director Bagley noted that he is concerned with what happens with the Mall and the
perceptions other entities have regarding the Mall in the future. General Manager Genova
explained that the plan is to do more fine tuning next year based on what is being done
this summer in order to narrow a few concepts. Any decisions relating to the Mall or Mall
operations will not be made until the end of 2017.
Director Francone shared that Jefferson County, specifically Commissioner Don Rosier, is
interested in pursuing a pilot program similar to that of Boulder County’s in the
Conifer/Evergreen area. She asked staff to begin a dialog with him.
Director Anderson explained that she is concerned Denver will not test how activities are
accepted on weeks that the Mall Shuttle is not moved and added that testing should occur
both ways. General Manager Genova indicated that the plan includes activation when the
Mall Shuttle is not detoured and Denver and DDP staffs are cognizant of Board requests.
Director Folska thinks it is important for the Board to be appraised of the information
Denver receives from their consultant in real-time. She wonders what will happen to
ridership when the Mall Shuttle is diverted but there are no marketing efforts to bring
people in. General Manager Genova explained that staff will undertake a comprehensive
communication on those weekends that the Mall Shuttle is detoured. He stated that
RTD’s partners have also agreed to help distribute that messaging. Staff will be
monitoring ridership very closely and conducting our own surveys to capture information
on the activities as they occur.
Director Folska noted that she would like to see the cost associated with the marketing
efforts from the City and County of Denver and RTD’s costs in relation to the temporary
changes in operations. General Manager Genova indicated that the Mall Shuttle would be
run on a cost neutral basis on the five weekends that it is detoured. The Mall Shuttle will
not have the same type of frequency, but the operation on those days will be cost neutral.

Director Folska added that the Board was still waiting to see the results of the customer
satisfaction survey and asked that those results be provided at the next committee
meeting.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Tobiassen asked for a motion to approve items A through G on the unanimous
consent agenda.

Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker) and 0 opposed. Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

RTD Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee and the Nominating Committee
for the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint one member of the Committee to an additional
three-year term and appoint five new members to the Committee to a three-year term.

B.
Contract Amendment for the Westminster Park and Ride Pedestrian Bridge Painting
& Rehabilitation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a construction contract
amendment with TMI Coatings, Inc. in the amount of $390,595.81. This Contract
Amendment to the Westminster Park-N-Ride (PnR) Pedestrian Bridge Painting &
Rehabilitation Project (Contract No. 16DP001) is for the restoration of the adjoining access
ramps to the pedestrian bridge over US36 at the RTD US36 Sheridan Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Station. With this amendment, the total contract value would be $839,283.74
C.

Pass Program Working Group

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the Pass Program Working Group objective, commitments
and guiding principles.
D.

2015 CAFR and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2015 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
E.

Salaried Employee Trustee Replacement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ amending the Salaried Employee
Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan to
provide for appointment of the same four employee trustees for each of the plans, with
two trustees being employee participants in the Pension Plan, and two being employee
participants in the Defined Contribution Plan. The resolution further provides that the three
existing employee trustees serving both plans remain as trustees with revised termination
dates to assure continued staggered terms, and that a fourth employee be appointed to
replace retired trustee Marla Lien.
F.
Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Motorola Solutions for Purchase of
Radios (56DH012)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a $940,000 sole
source contract with Motorola Solutions(Motorola) for purchase of mobile, portable and
tower radios and associated equipment (Contract Number 56DH012). This contract will
include an option for a 3-year extended warranty.

G.

2016 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations
and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

XII.

Recommended Action
H.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a
one-year option (June 30, 2016 through June 29, 2017) to extend Contract No. 13-DX00, at a cost of $122,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
approve the State Legislative Liaison
Services.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 1 opposed (Menten). Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.

PASSED [13 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

I.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A
It is recommended by the Finance Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks
Projects), Series 2016A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the Resolution No. , Series of 2016 related to
the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds,
Series 2016A.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker) and 2
opposed (Francone, Menten). Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.

PASSED [12 TO 2]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.
J.
Resolution No. ___, Resolution expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed
for certain expenses relating to the financing of buses
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), expressing the
intent of the Board to be reimbursed from a future financing for certain expenses relating
to the acquisition of buses.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the Resolution No. __, Resolution
expressing the intent of the Board to be

reimbursed for certain expenses relating
to the financing of buses.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Francone noted that she does not disagree that
new buses are needed, but it seems that this purchase
was moved up quickly and in combination with the
latest financial reports it gives her pause about
spending the money now.
Director Menten explained that she will vote no for this
action item as she has a concern about RTD’s debt.
She also has a concern that after review of this item,
RTD has a rolling purchase where we buy, take
delivery, put out to bid, etc. She expressed concern
that a former RTD Chair, Lee Kemp, also works for MCI
and is now running for the Board again. She said she
believes everything was done above board but thinks
this item should be tabled until it is determined if he is
still RTD’s sales representative.
Director Lubow indicated that there does not appear to
be any improprieties, but in the interest of full
disclosure, at least this issue is out in the open.
Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 10 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska,
Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 4 opposed (Francone,
Lasater, Menten, Solano). Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:

PASSED [10 TO 4]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Tobiassen,
Walker
Tina Francone, Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.
K.

August 2016 Service Change Final

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2016 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $537,935 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to
approve the State Legislative Liaison
Services.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone said there was some discussion
about the removal of route CS/CV from this service
change. Bruce Abel indicated that subsequent to the
Operations Committee meeting, staff was in agreement
with the potential amendment to remove the CS/CV
from this service package.
Motion to
Amend:

Director Francone made the motion to
remove the line item concerning routes
CV/CS/CX; Pine Junction, Conifer and
Denver from this agenda item.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
Amendment: The motion passed with 14 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska,

Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 0 opposed. Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.
Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY. The CV/CS/CX line items
were removed from the August Service Changes.
Vote on the
Motion as
Amended:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
AWAY:

The motion passed with 14 in favor
(Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska,
Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen,
Walker) and 0 opposed. Director
Deadwyler left the meeting early.

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
Director Menten asked if someone could explain the video issue to her that Dan Burke had
raised during public participation. Scott Reed explained that there was an ADA Safety Day
hosted by RTD prior to the opening of the University of Colorado A-Line. Staff did not
have an advance training session to outline expectations from participants and employees.
The National Federation of the Blind has their GoPro videos for staff as well as additional
training resources. They have been a great partner over the years and staff wants to
continue that partnership.
Director Francone noted that the ADA Manager should be more involved in these activities
so that this issue does not happen again. Scott Reed indicated that he did oversee the
process and was involved.

Director Lasater gave a quick update regarding the Southeast Rail Extension. The
groundbreaking occurred on May 10th and the contractor announced that they would begin
construction on June 16th. The e extension is set to open in March of 2019. He said it
was a very well attended event.
Director Francone thanked Doug Monroe, Senior Service Planner/Scheduler, and Jesse
Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, for their help with the CV/CS/CX.
She also thanked General Manager Genova for attending the meeting with Commissioner
Rosier.

XV.

New Business
Director Bagley mentioned that when he, Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning, and several staff members met with the City of Littleton City Manager and City
Council members to address a number of topics. He further noted his attendance at the
APTA Bus and Paratransit Conference and commented that the Ten Transcendent Trends
Reshaping the Future of Transportation presentation was very compelling. The
presentation explored national trends such as: growing populations, evolving community
foot prints, diversity rules, age shifts, household shifts, sustainability, stagnant wages,
technology and transparency. Director Bagley added that he really enjoyed the presentation
and noted it would be beneficial to have the same presenter, John W. Martin, speak before
a transit oriented group in Denver. The presentation cost is $6000 plus transportation and
lodging, but if that could be shared between different groups it would be extremely
valuable.
Director Walker noted that he was at a recent groundbreaking for a mixed use development
at Elati and Bates. He also noted that the City of Englewood was very grateful for the
change to Route 27 which will take residents from Englewood Station to Broadway
quicker. Director Walker further added that in the last month he participated in the Colfax
marathon, the Denver Day of Rock and the Bolder Boulder. He indicated that our operators
and schedulers did a great job, especially on the Denver Day of Rock. The Mall Ride
operators are keenly aware of everything happening around them and they do a fantastic
job. Director Walker asked if service should be moved, changed or temporarily shifted,
does staff keep statistics on specific routes affected, such as the 12 when the Pearl Street
Farmers Market is going on. General Manager Genova noted that on event driven days,
staff normally does not track numbers.
Directory Bagley commented that the Monday Morning Q has excellent information. This is
something that needs to be recognized by the Board for what staff does and how they can
make changes.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:43 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Acting Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

