Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

July 14, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14,
2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
st
Board Members Present:
1 Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair Cohen,
Secretary Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:

I.

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Chair Kemp
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Dave Genova

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the meeting to order
at 12:05 p.m.

Recommended Actions
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley
introduced these two items and shared they had passed unanimously
through the committee. These two items completes the outstanding items
from the state audit.

Board Approval of Benchmarking Approach for General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation Process
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors adopt this
benchmarking approach as a helpful guideline or reference point but that
the final decision and determination on general manager compensation
for this agency will be made by the RTD Board of Directors while
weighing a variety of factors that are unique to the RTD.


Board Approval of CEO Compensation Philosophy Model
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors adopt this CEO
Compensation Philosophy Model that establishes the framework to
guide all aspects of developing, managing and evaluating the General

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
Manager’s employment agreement and compensation package.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the two action items above.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:


Approval of General Manager’s 2012 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General
Manager’s goals for 2012.

Motion:

Discussion:

Vote on
the Motion:
II.

The Motion PASSED.

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the three action items above
Director Cohen seconded the motion.
General Manager Washington indicated
that these task goals will drive the 2012
budget and the timeliness of this action
coincides with the 2012 SDP process.
He has also shared these goals with his
SLT.
General Manager Washington asked
about the frequency of the quarterly
survey and if we should make it more biannual. After some discussion, GM
Committee Chair Bagley indicated we
should do the quarterly due in July.
Afterwards at the next meeting, his
committee will vote on the decision to
change from quarterly to biannual.
The Motion PASSED.

July Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington indicated that 3 of the items on the unanimous
consent had just been voted on by the Executive Committee. He noted that
the extension of the Alameda Station, LLC had passed under recommended
action but felt the issues were under control.
Director Cohn inquired about what mechanism the General Manager will use
to keep the Board members informed if a milestone was missed or changes
were made to this agreement. Phil Washington indicated he planned to keep
the Board advised through a number of ways including the General Manager

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
report, emails, FasTracks Committee, etc. Director Bagley stated he really
liked having the milestones spelled out and he thinks this should be a model
for other similar agreements. He thinks the General Manager sent out a
strong message to Alameda Station LLC that they need to perform. He feels
comfortable where we are because of the diligence of the staff.
Director Tayer inquired about how the General Manager would exercise the
authority and what flexibility if any is included if they miss a milestone.
General Manager Washington replied he will need to look at the total picture
to try to be fair about it. Dave Genova pointed out there is language in the
agreement that provides flexibility at the discretion of the General Manager.
If for example, they are working with Alameda Station LLC and they may
need a couple more days, the General Manager will have the discretion to
allow that. The General Manager will also inform the Board before action is
taken. Judgment and discretion will be used.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
the July Board meeting agenda to the full
Board for approval on July 19.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The motion passed.

Unanimous Consent
 Grant of Permanent Easement for Water Line Facilities to the City
of Denver through its Board of Water Commissioners
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a sole,
exclusive and permanent 8,223 square foot utility easement as well
as a temporary construction license to the City and County of
Denver, acting by and through its Board of Water Commissioners
allowing for the construction, operation and maintenance of Conduit
151 across property owned by the Regional Transportation District
generally located at Smith Road and Central Park Boulevard in the
City and County of Denver.
 Board Approval of Benchmarking Approach for General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation Process
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt this benchmarking approach as a helpful guideline or reference
point but that the final decision and determination on general
manager compensation for this agency will be made by the RTD
Board of Directors while weighing a variety of factors that are unique
to the RTD.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
 Board Approval of CEO Compensation Philosophy Model
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt this CEO Compensation Philosophy Model that establishes the
framework to guide all aspects of developing, managing and
evaluating the General Manager’s employment agreement and
compensation package.
 Approval of General Manager’s 2012 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the General Manager’s goals for 2012.
 Recommended Action
 Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to negotiate and
execute all documents that may be necessary to extend the contract
for sale and development by and between the Regional Transportation
District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through
December 31, 2011 with the provision that 1) a site plan will be
submitted to RTD staff for review and response the week of August
1, 2011, 2) present on September 6, 2011, a preliminary site plan,
financial plan and draft agreements to the RTD Board Planning and
Development Committee and 3) prior to 5:00 p.m., November 29,
2011 submit commercial and financial information to RTD staff for
inclusion in the December 6, 2011 Board Planning and Development
Committee Report. In addition to these provisions, the extension will
require certain actions and commitments as shown on the attached
Alameda Station LLC, Milestone Schedule. Consistent with the
authority granted in previous Board actions for the property, if
Alameda Station LLC fails to meet any of the milestones described on
the Milestone Schedule, the General Manager, at his discretion, may
choose to terminate the contract prior to completion of the full six
months, and will inform the Board prior to termination. Final RTD
Board action, presuming all required milestones have been met will
occur by December 31, 2011.
III.

Other Matters
General Manager Washington indicated he will not be at the Board meeting
on Tuesday, July 19 but Dave Genova will cover during that time.
Director Malpiede expressed that a letter will be written to COMTO Colorado
on behalf of the Board congratulating them for winning the COMTO Chapter
of the Year.
Director Malpiede shared that she and Director Deadwyler had attended the
DTP quarterly meeting and that the meeting was good synergistically.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
IV. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:40 p.m.

