2020-05-07
GMES - GMOC
PEGGY CATLIN: I wanted to start out by saying that all of the directors were given an
opportunity to comment on the position description with a deadline of yesterday at close of
business. And just like me, a number of you waited until just about close of business to provide
Mr. Moser with comments. We had hoped to get through all of the-- had those compiled and get
through them all to reach consensus.
But based on a number of comments that were received, and the fact that Mr. Moser was not the
author of that particular position description, we decided it would be best to start with a clean
slate and draft up a new position description that was more relevant to current circumstances.
And so with that, I would like to turn it over to Gregg Moser to talk about his thoughts in moving
forward with that.
The other thing that I wanted to mention was that we have tentatively scheduled another meeting
for next Thursday after the executive committee meeting to talk about a revised position
description and try to gain consensus on that and steps moving forward. Actually, before I turn it
over to Gregg, are there any comments about that? From Director?
SHELLEY COOK: This is Shelley Cook-- it sounds good to me as far as the schedule is
concerned and process.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, any others?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten, I would be OK-- Menten, sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Natalie, yeah?
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know if we're set on Thursday. But if it was Tuesday or
Wednesday, I would not be opposed to that to gain a couple of days.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, what we had talked about in terms of the schedule was that after we go
through today's discussion, that Gregg Moser will provide us with a draft position description
Monday. And then I would ask directors to utilize the buddy system and contact their buddies to
get additional feedback if possible or if desired. And then we will get all of our comments back
to Mr. Moser by Wednesday no later than noon.
And I guess I would remind everybody that we've already had two bites at this apple. We had
one last December. And now this is our second opportunity. So I would ask that everybody, in
the interest of time, get those comments back to Barbara and Mr. Moser by noon next
Wednesday.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.

PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, who-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hi, this is Lynn. Sorry, I had a call go too long, but I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh good, thanks. We were just talking about the fact that we are starting with
a clean slate to create a job description that is more fitting of current circumstances and also that
is a polished, professional, job description that is reflective of the agency. So that's kind of it in a
nutshell. So Gregg, I'll turn it over to you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Catlin?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi, this is Barbara McManus. I just want to expand a little bit on next
week's meeting. So we have executive committee meeting. That will go 11:30 to 1:00. And then
at 1 o'clock, we'll start with the General Manager's executive search with the results that Chair
Catlin just spoke about and give comments back to Mr. Moser regarding the job description,
going forward.
But then the second half of that meeting is going to be the GMOC, General Manager's oversight
and performance management, where we will be discussing the tactical plan that was presented
at the study session, the elements of that, and next steps. I don't know how long each of the
respective meetings will go, but it will be from 11:30 on to a good part of the afternoon. And I
just wanted to say that upfront.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. I appreciate that. And you're sending out the agenda
today, is that right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, the packet will go out today.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, perfect. Are there any questions before we proceed with Gregg's
approach? OK, take it away, Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: All right, thank you, Director Catlin. Hello, everyone. Good afternoon. I want
to first start by thanking everybody for your input on the job description. I think that, as I spoke
to some of you individually-- and if I didn't get a chance to connect with you, that was for no
reason or to leave you off.
But those who I connected with, it was actually incredibly helpful to see your comments and
feedback, because it made me realize that there was a bit of work to do around the job
description to enhance it, to bring it up to date, to make it more equitable, make it more fair,
make it more reflective of what I think you're looking for. And I had talked to Director Catlin
last night and made a recommendation that-- I think she was in agreement. I know she was in
agreement that we start with a clean slate, that I prepare a job description.

I think that what I'd like to do with this job description-- you've been incredibly helpful to
provide that feedback. But I would like to prepare a job description and something that we can
all come around and feel really proud of that represents what you're looking for, represents the
community and what the community is looking for, your stakeholders and your other colleagues
on the board.
And I want to spend the bulk of the time more listening from you, but that's really where I came
from was, we could have spent some time reworking the description we had and tweaking it, but
I didn't feel that we're going to really get at the end of the day ultimately what I think would be
something that everybody would be very proud of and really happy with. So what I'm
recommending doing is-- and I'm going to get this to you on Monday morning-- is taking the
weekend.
And I generally would like to have a couple of different areas to the job description. The first
part is, for any reader who takes an opportunity look at this, I'd like to give some background as
to what the RTD is, what its purpose is, how it is formed, and what the size of the agency is,
what the size of the bus agency side of it is or the rail size is, what the services you provide, the
community you provide service to, what that community is, some description of the board and
how the board is comprised, how you were elected, and your terms, and things like that, so that
someone who is reading this who may not know very much about RTD has at least a
foundational understanding of what RTD is and what its purpose is, what its mission is and what
it serves. I think from there, I'd like to go into what you're going to be looking for in the next
CEO.
You know, at different points in the times, you've been looking for different things. And today
and for maybe the next foreseeable future, whatever we define that is, 3 years, 5 years, 10 years,
15 years, there are certain needs. And some of you have been very helpful in expressing those to
me through your responses to the job description we had. So I'd like to have that in there.
The next section I'd like to include-- and I'm going to break that up, by the way. And I'd like to
break it up in a different categories, so financial management, operational and organizational
management. And I haven't completely thought of these categories, but stakeholder engagement,
or board relationships. So those are the types of categories I'd like to break this job description
down into with the responsibilities of what this person is responsible for and what your
expectations are in each of those categories for what they should do and deliver, because I think
it's easy to read for the reader. And it's very defined as to what the responsibilities are in various
categories as they deal and engage in different areas of the business.
So the next section, I'd like to-- again, the wording, I will choose the wording for this, but it's the
skills and attributes. And so to me, those are the areas of the job description that I think, by and
large, almost any executive, and certainly any CEO really ought to possess, high integrity, an
ethical approach, a strong ability to listen, good interpersonal skills, ability to communicate. And
so those are broad things that any executive should have regardless of who they are, where they
come from, and sort of their past experience.

And then the last piece of it is the experience we're seeking to require. That's the next sort of
section. And it's not a lengthy section, but it's we are looking for someone with a minimum of x
amount of years of experience. And I've heard a lot of feedback about this, a degree or, if we
ultimately decide we require a bachelor's degree, we require a master's degree, or we have a
strong preference to an advanced degree, or we are willing to potentially look for someone that
might not have a degree, but supplemental experience in lieu of that.
So I see the job description having three or four different big parts to it and then supplemental
sub parts underneath of there. And again, the feedback you've provided it's been really helpful. I
have, through my own diligence, information that I can incorporate into this job description. And
candidly, from what my experience is doing CEO-level recruitments and putting together job
descriptions for similar agencies around the country of similar size and complexity, have an
understanding of what the core fundamental aspects of the job are that you would be looking for.
So what I'd like to do is get that to you on Monday. The sooner you can get me feedback-- and
I'm going to submit it to you as a Word document, so feel free to do track changes, or make
comments on the side, or whatever is easiest for you. Print it out, hand write notes, and scan it
back to me. The sooner you get that-- I'd like to ideally take all that feedback, incorporate it,
again, into a revised version of it, and then have that to you by Wednesday evening or first thing
Thursday morning at the very latest so that we're in a position hopefully on Thursday when we
get back together as a group to say, we feel really good about this description, we're really
excited about it, and we're ready to move to the next stage. And the next stage would be to
advertise it, to put it on RTD's website. Well I guess, we would need to adopt it, advertise it, put
it on the website, and then for me to use that as the basis to actually start to go out to the
recruitment.
So I know we're losing a few days a time by doing this, but I think it'll get us to the right place.
And I believe that-- and my goal would be to have a well-written description that really
communicates to the audience and to the reader what you're looking for and what you're seeking.
I will say that a lot of times when we get to the end of this process, next week, of writing this
description, people will say to me, no one can do all of this.
No one has all of these skills. And I think that that's true. And that's OK. This is not a document
that's intended to be, you're going to hold this person to for their performance and things like
that.
But it's really, this is our wish list. We're setting out to look for these things. This is our ideal
candidate. And if the job description had 15 bullet points of the ideal candidate and we end up
finding a group of candidates that have 11 of those or 12 of those for that matter-- every
candidate is going to have a different 11 or 12. Some will be similar. And some will have another
set of 11 or 12.
And I think that that helps represent the diversity of the market, and the diversity of the talent
pool, the diversity of the candidate pool and their prior experience, who they are as an individual,
whether it's their ethnic background, or religious backgrounds, or whether they're a man or a
woman, I think that's to capture all of that. And then it allows us to have a very healthy

conversation as we go through this process to identify which of these candidates are the ones that
are most reflective of what we're looking for. And then to also think about, you know, where is-everybody has a weakness.
And so where is this particular candidate's weaknesses? And can we support that in some other
way through the organization? So I think it'll give a really good context and a basis to go out
there and set the stage for, ideally, what we're striving to find in our candidate CEO. Does
anybody have any questions about that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think I'm going to just poll each of the directors separately. Chair RiveraMalpiede, do you have any comments about that approach?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I think that sounds really good and doable. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, no comments. Thank you, Gregg. It sounds great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I agree. Yeah, it sounds great. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: OK, I'm sorry. I couldn't get it off mute. No, that sounds great. I think a clearer
description will eliminate a lot of time lost answering questions or clarifying, save everybody
time, applicant and the committee. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No comments, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comments. It sounds great. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, and directors Menten, Walker, and Folska, I think we would all
appreciate your input, since you've been through this before. So thank you for taking the time to
get on the call. And Mr. Ballard, do you have any comments?
BALLARD: Oh, I'm good, thank you very much. It's a great plan.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I think so too. How about you, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think it's great
PEGGY CATLIN: OK one other thing-- and Gregg referenced this. And on our agenda, we have
the advertising plan. And there are some specific areas that we want to target and industries that
we want to target. So Gregg, could you outline a little bit what your approach to the advertising
piece is?
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. So again, I see different elements to the advertising of this
description. I sent around a list of places that we could advertise this job. And I tried to be
inclusive of not just transit, because during our last call when you first introduced yourself, you
each went around and gave me a little bit of a background as to what your expectations were and
what you were looking for.
And I heard loud and clear that we may find a great person inside of transit, but we would like to
see if there are candidates that might be really great and they come from outside of transit. And
by the way, a few directors sent me recommendations of some other places to reach out to to
make sure that their organizations were aware of the job posting, and their staff was aware of it,
and their boards were aware of it. So I will be sure to make sure that we incorporate that as well.
If there is any additional cost of that, before I do anything, I will let Barbara and the Chair of the
committee know. And we'll make sure that we don't do anything that is of any kind of cost
without approvals and whatnot. But I will do everything I can to keep it as low cost as possible.
And if I see an opportunity to get some sort of discount, I will certainly take advantage of that,
because I want to be very mindful of the cost. But I did put together an approximate budget for
what those costs are. I see a couple of different areas we're planning to advertise.
One is RTD's website. And I think it'll be prominent, front and center on the RTD website. There
is a dedicated space for the GM CEO recruitment. And I think it will appear there. And it'll
appear in a format that is easily accessible for anybody who wants it. And it'll have my contact
information so that anybody who feels as though they are qualified to apply for the job can
therefore reach out to me, submit their information. And I can then have conversations, and vet
them, and review their resumes, or whatever information they send.
The other places are we want to-- we are going to advertise with some transit-industry-specific
organizations. So we've got the American Public Transportation Association. We've got an
organization called Transit Talent. We've got COMPTA, which is the Conference Of Minority
Transportation Officers. And we've got WTS, which is women in transportation.
So the purpose of that is-- and by the way, some of those organizations like WTS COMPTA are
attached to 30 or 40 other industry organizations. So a lot of times I scratch my head and I say,
where did this resume come from? They're not a transit person, because some clients only want
to advertise in transit.

And what I've come to find out is that when you post with COMPTA or WTS, it hits other
industry, engineering associations. It hits roadway associations, highway, tolling associations. So
I get resumes from people beyond just transit.
But with that being said, I think we've got a couple of other places. We're going to reach out to
places like the Chamber. We're going to reach out to airline and airport association, air executive
associations. There is an organization called ICMA, the International Manager Counties
Association, if I'm remembering exactly what the acronym stands for.
But I did put together that list. And the purpose and what our goal is is to put this out to a diverse
and broad audience. So we're not just looking strictly in transit, but capturing other areas, state
and local government, county executives, city executives, airport executives. We have a
organization for utilities and things like that so we can cover the public utilities sectors. So my
goal is that we do that outreach.
And again, for those who are not familiar with my process, that's just one aspect of it. And the
other aspect is that I will go out and directly target and recruit candidates, and network through
these various different industries to identify leading talent in their respective fields to see if I can
also generate-- or not to see. I will also generate a pool of candidates to incorporate and bring us,
ideally a diverse slate of candidates, not just in terms of gender and things like that, but also
professional experiences.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. Is everybody OK with that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes I am.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Me too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Me too.
PEGGY CATLIN: So then-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Chair-- Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska-- I have a question/comment. I think those are excellent
industries, Gregg. I'm wondering, you know, it made me kind of think about the gentleman was
the CEO of Delta. I think his last name is Richardson. And now he's the CEO of Amtrak.
GREGG MOSER: That's correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, so are you going to be able to target those areas as well in that list?

GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. Yeah, so my goal would be to reach out to former, past, current
executives of airlines, reach out to someone like the executives over at Amtrak, folks like that,
and network, because there may be an opportunity.
There has been some recent transitions in places as large as the New York City subway system. I
plan to reach out to Andy Byford. And you know, there is a whole host of people I plan to
contact. And again, I'm specifically referencing class-one railroads and large transit
organizations.
But yes, I would plan to go into the leading water and wastewater industries, the leading public
utilities out there, some of the progressive airports. There are some airports out there that have
done some really interesting things both on the capital side or the finance side, public-private
partnerships, and even integrated transit into their services, whether it's through autonomous
vehicles like you get on these people-mover systems that take you from one terminal to the next.
So there are some folks out there that have some diverse experiences. And my goal would be to
try to attract some people from other industries to this as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And there's, like, I think it's transportation institutes both at DU and UC
Davis. And then there is Boeing as well. And they're kind of-- they probably maybe want to look
for a new job, some of those folks. I don't know.
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Those are good suggestions, Director Folska. Other directors, if you have an
industry that you think would be good to cap, if you could get those suggestions to Gregg as
well. I had another thought. When you were talking about public-private partnerships, Gregg,
there is a public, a 3P association. And I'm not sure if you're familiar with that. I typically get
emails from them. And I can forward that on to you. And then-GREGG MOSER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --I would also suggest contacting AGC, the construction community, because
they're maybe not necessarily pick someone within the construction industry, but they have a
pretty good network of their targeted clients. So that could be a pretty broad reach as well.
GREGG MOSER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Direct Buzek-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, just a question. Gregg, when you get all of these-- everybody is throwing
things at you as we go. Will you put together a comprehensive list of all these? The list I have is
from April 24. It was part of our agenda. And I think already it's expanded beyond what's on that
list.

GREGG MOSER: Yes. Yeah, I'll put together a revised list to add the other places. Some of
them, we may formally advertise with. And other ones, it may be where I do some outreach and
just reach out to the Chair of the board and the CEO, or if there's a membership, head a
membership, and ask if there is a way that they could disseminate it and distribute it to their
teams and also some of their members, and then of course network with them about who may be
good out there who could do something like what we're looking for.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And you let us know about those as you do them, right?
GREGG MOSER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks a lot. Bye bye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other directors?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No, nothing.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'll go through the list again. Director Rivera-Malpiede-- or Chair
Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know what, Gregg? I was sitting
here thinking about the diversity of the groups that you have, which I think are wonderful. And it
made me think about the National Council of La Raza, NCLR. It might be a good place to
advertise this as well.
GREGG MOSER: Can you say it one more time please? I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, the National Council of La Raza, L-A R-A-Z-A, or
NCLR.
GREGG MOSER: OK, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So again, if you all would even ask your buddy about places that we
could tap and then forward those to Gregg in the next-- well, let's do this by Wednesday as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten. I have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so on this list that, again, I see April 27 or 24, somewhere in there,
there are five that I'm interested in that are not on this list. I definitely am very dollar-focused
with our budget. But one is Denver Post, I don't see on the list, Colorado Community Media,
which is very localized, but good source. Then also some of the big ones, I don't see Indeed. I
don't see Monster. And I don't see Glassdoor. Are those three fairly inexpensive to run ads on,
Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: So candidly, I have not run executive CEO-level positions through those three
organizations. I tend to find what I described as a lot of noise on there, a lot of mid-levelmanagement-type jobs. And you get a lot of resumes that are not really directly related to what
we're looking for.
With that said, I believe that, because I've actually gotten resumes from places like Indeed-- and
again, I've never advertised with them for a CEO-level recruitment-- that COMPTA and WTS,
when they blast it out so their 30 or 40 organizations that are partners of theirs, it ends up hitting
places like Indeed in Glassdoor. So I can't speak to the cost of those right now, if we are really
interested in doing them. I don't know what the cost is per advertisement to go with those.
I can certainly check with the Denver Post. My experience in the newspaper media is the cost of
advertising is pretty substantial. It gets pretty expensive pretty quickly. So we can put something
very small in there. It usually runs, like, once a week, one day, one week. But it can be as
expensive or multiples of some of these other ones that run for 30 or 60 days.
NATALIE MENTEN: All, right so one side note is our contribution as committee members on
the General Manager search-- and I'll do this myself, but I'll just share this with others-- that we
as Board Directors could sign up for a YourHub, our Media Department may already have the
YourHub account, which is the Denver Post Thursday Edition, Wednesday or Thursday edition.
And we can create free articles that go in print and go on the net, and the same, even doing an op
ed or something with the Colorado Community Media. So even if those are cost prohibitive on
the formal ad, we could also take that upon ourselves. So I'll leave my comments at that as to a
way to stretch our dollars and in exchange for a little bit of sweat or effort. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. I thought I might have heard something.
Director Lewis, have you joined the call? OK, I guess-- I was hearing things. Thank you.
Director Menten, those were good suggestions. But again, I encourage everybody to forward
their ideas to Gregg by next Wednesday.
Now next on the agenda we have a press release date. Given that we are going to be trying to
finalize this position description next Thursday, I would ask Ms. McManus to discuss the
timeline about when we can do the press release and also the website and launch for the GM
CEO search.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I can work with Pauletta Tenelis in the next couple of days and
find out how long it takes to pull that together with her team to get it out there. And then, Gregg,
if you could let me know what you feel a timeline would be, we would have the job description.
And then you could add some-- I think I did forward you the press release we did for the Interim

General Manager. If you could take a peek at that and see if there's any additional elements you
want to add or subtract from, or if there is a different flavor that you feel that should be portrayed
in the press release-- as soon as we know a launch date, we can have that done in tandem.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you, Barbara. I would suggest that those items be on the agenda
for next Thursday as well. OK, I think we've covered everything on the agenda. And we do have
a plan going forward. It's pretty ambitious, given that we are probably pushed back a week, but I
think that my personal opinion is that if we do this correctly now, it'll save the time in the long
run. And we'll get better quality candidates.
So I appreciate you all taking the time and putting forth the effort to get this done in a really
quality manner. Are there any other matters? I'm going to ask each Director individually. Chair
Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, Madam Chair, I'm good. Thank you, everybody, for all the
work you're doing on this issue.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, Madam Chair. Thanks again. Great meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comments, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Barbara McManus, do you have a comment?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. So one of the items that was on the agenda is the targeted
communications. And if you'll recall, we had asked directors to send a list to Gregg of which
stakeholders that we wanted him to reach out to either in the prime or the choice category, either

reaching out one on one or a targeted email to get responses back from those groups. Gregg, do
you feel that you've gotten enough information in that category to move forward? Or do we need
to extend that a little bit for you to get additional information?
GREGG MOSER: I think it would be helpful to extend that. I don't think I have it yet. I think
I've gotten a few broad categories. But I think what would be really helpful is if we could give
some thought to who are the most critical and important stakeholders. Like is there someone
from the Governor's Office, of the Chief of Staff, or somebody like that, or someone from the
State Legislature?
And I think that what I see these conversations being as you think about who I should reach out
to-- and I'm thinking maybe plus or minus a dozen of the most critical stakeholders-- is for me to
call them and ask very broad-based questions about we have this opportunity now. We're starting
to recruit candidates. And I wanted your input and guidance as to what you feel I should be for in
candidates, what you feel you want to see from RTD. And I think that the goal would be-- the
real opportunity is for me to listen and for them to feel like they've been heard.
And I think it will offer some long-term buy in for RTD, and hopefully for you as a board, and
for them to feel like they've been included in the process to some extent, whether we include
them later on at the back end for stakeholder engagement, at least for them to feel like they've
been able to express their opinion as to what we're looking for in candidates. So to the extent that
everyone can think about potential people I could reach out to that are really critical to the
organization, and that if I were to make a call and they were willing to spend 15 minutes on the
phone with me, they would walk away feeling really appreciated that they were reached out to
and asked for their opinions.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg, when do you need that by?
GREGG MOSER: I think that the priority should definitely be the job description, if I was
prioritizing things. I think the next priority should be where we're going to advertise and any
other organizations you want me to reach out to, because that's going to be the next step in the
process.
My goal is that we walk away from next Thursday's meeting and feel comfortable with this job
description and we're ready to go forward. So the next step would be for me to start to place
those advertisements. And if I don't have all the places, we're going to be doing it haphazardly.
So in terms of priorities, I'd put the stakeholder piece, these recommended list of people for me
to reach out to as a very close third, but maybe even a second to everything else, just because
they're also a good resource.
One of the questions I'll ask is there anybody if you were going to build-- I'll put this out there
like this. If there is someone if you were going to look for the Michael Jordan of the world to
build your dream team around, who would that person be? And is there anybody you might
recommend? And I think that whether we end up hiring that person or not, it would just be an
opportunity for them to reflect and feel, again, like they're being part of this process. So they will
be a very valuable resource for me and for the process, going forward.

PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All right, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg-- and actually I may get Director Guissinger in on this. We have three
consultants that we use for liaison with local government, and liaison with the state legislature,
and liaison with the federal government. And I think that they would be a good resource for us to
use to gauge some of that stakeholder involvement. What do you think, Lynn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. And we have a call with
Brandeberry-Mckenna later today. I'll talk with them. And we can-- either Sherry or I can reach
out to the others. But I apologize, I didn't move forward on this, but I do have several names to
give you, Gregg. And maybe I'll talk to Paul a little more. And we can get those to you in the
next few days, OK?
GREGG MOSER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. OK, does-BARBARA MCMANUS: Does it make-PEGGY CATLIN: --that cover your-- oh I'm sorry, go ahead, Chair.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it's Barbara McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, Barbara, OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Does it make sense since the committee is going to be reaching out to
their buddies one on one for them to approach both of these subjects at the same time and get
them to us by noon on Wednesday?
PEGGY CATLIN: You read my mind. I was going to say the same thing, that it's really
important that each of us reaches out to his or her buddy and seeks input from them. Director
Buzek, is it my understanding that you were the alternate, but you did not have a buddy?
VINCE BUZEK: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, Director Lewis is not on the call. And I'm hearing that she may not be
able to devote the time. Would it be possible for you to reach out to her as your buddy?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: We can talk about it offline, if you like.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, let's do that. Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that's fine. I just want to make sure that, given her desire for providing
input, that we make sure we have a way to loop her in. OK, are there any other matters? There
are none. Next meeting is next Thursday, I believe at 1:30, Barbara? Or is at 1:00?
BARBARA MCMANUS: 1 o'clock.
PEGGY CATLIN: 1 o'clock. OK, so with that, at 12:44, this committee meeting is adjourned.
Thank you, all.

