Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, December 5, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C

Status
Remote
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:38 PM
6:34 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:35 PM
6:34 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Absent

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:33 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:38 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District K
Director, District H

Absent
Present

6:29 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:31 PM
6:30 PM

B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for On-Call Construction Services Contracts
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award
contracts to Krische Construction, Gilmore Construction Corporation, HPM
Incorporated and T-Bone Construction Inc. for On-Call Construction Services
for one year, with four optional one-year extensions. The maximum
cumulative value of the four contracts, including all optional extensions will
not exceed $30 million.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, introduced Joytsna Vishwakarma, Senior Manager
and Chief Engineer, and Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project
Manager, to provide the background on the On Call
Construction Services Contract.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained that RTD has been using the on
call contractor for the last five years and had three companies
work on a number of projects throughout the districts. She
introduced Mitch Kuharski stating that he has managed these
contracts and worked closely with the on call contractors over
the last five years.
Mr. Kuharski explained that over the last five years 48 work
orders had been initiated and the work varied in cost from
$8,000 to $2 million, totaling over $24 million for the last 5
years of work. He added that the projects have assisted the
base group, facilities, light rail, civil structural, state of good
repairs, as well as of number of other areas. He stated that
having an on call contract keeps RTD projects on budget and
schedule and offers value to RTD to ensure completion of
projects throughout the agency. Mr. Kuharski added that the
on call contracts assist the Strategic Business Plan and the
APE by completing projects in the fiscal year that they are
proposed and funded. He stated that the on call contractors
provide the following benefits to RTD:

Ability to make emergency repairs quickly

Ability to deliver smaller projects efficiently

Shortened procurement time

Shortened construction duration, and better quality

Reduced public impact of projects
Mr. Kuharski stated that in September RTD advertised a
Request for Proposal (RFP) for supply/services for On-Call
Construction Services work, and that an evaluation team which
consisted of seven RTD staff members from procurement,
engineering, and civil rights met and selected the following four
firms were selected:
1.
Krische Construction
2.
Gilmore Construction Corporation (Certified DBE)
3.
HPM Incorporated
4.
T-Bone Construction Inc.
Mr. Kuharski explained that the contracts would be for general
construction including but not limited to grading, drainage,
utilities, paving, intersection improvements, rail repair, sitework, landscaping, small buildings, and building repairs.


Director Broom asked how the RTD decided between the five
agencies for a project.
Mr. Kuharski explained that RTD the decision would be based
on competitive bidding and expertise in the area of the
proposed project.
Director Menten asked if using Small Business Enterprise (SBE)
and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) drives up the
cost of projects.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that anytime work is sub
contracted out the cost is increased for each ,if you have a
sole source contractor thee reis less mark up for the project. A
lot of the projects developing the community and relationship
with a number of contractor. Track 13
Director Menten stated that the price goes up when using a
sub-contractor because a general contractor will add cushion
to the price.
Mr. Stopplecamp agreed, explaining that each firm wants a
profit and that overhead must be covered. Overseeing the
work and every time a contractor hires a sub each company
needs to cover overhead and profit for the work that is being
done or work that is being overseen.
Director Francone commented on the clear articulation of the
alternatives and that it is appreciated to understand the
information in order to make a sound decision on the
recommended action.
Director Anderson stated she would vote yes.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

• Contract Award for the Regional Bus Rapid Transit Feasibility Study
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg
Holt & Ullevig to serve as the Contractor for assistance in the preparation
of the Regional Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study for an amoun t
not to exceed $1,250,000. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the Regional BRT Feasibility Study.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 19, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brian Welch, Senior Manager Planning Technical Services,
explained that RTD issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) in
October 2017 for consultant services to assist with the
preparation of the Regional BRT Feasibility Study. The
RFP included a 15 percent Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise (DBE) goal. He stated that a committee
comprised of representatives from RTD, CDOT, and
DRCOG reviewed the proposals submitted by six teams:
AECOM; David Evans; Felsburg, Holt, & Ullevig (FHU); HDR;
Michael Baker; and the University of Wyoming – College of
Engineering and Applied Science. He added that the selection
committee short-listed two teams for interviews and
unanimously concluded that the team led by FHU had the
most relevant experience, including innovative approaches
to study preparation and BRT implementation, and are
recommending that the Board approve and authorize the
General Manager to negotiate a contract with FHU. Mr.
Welch stated that funding for this study is provided through

$1million in DRCOG TIP funds and $250,000 in RTD local
funds.
Director Folska asked what was the difference between this
study and North Area Mobility Study (NAMS) and Mobility
Choice studies, and why the agency needed another study.
Mr. Welch explained that NAMS concentrated on the area for
HWY 119 and Mobility Choice focused on how the agency
should consider the role of technology in transportation. He
added that this study is complimentary and parallel to these
studies and would incorporate information from all the studies.
Director Francone thanked Mr. Welch and the team for
articulating alternatives in a neutral manner and providing the
financial information regarding the study.
Director Broom asked, if the study proved that there were
seven or eight areas that qualified for the BRT, whether these
projects would compete with FasTracks.
Mr. Welch explained the key reason was to prioritize how they
will compliment to move people to FasTracks lines via a short
list of corridors that would then, with the Board’s discretion,
move to the next phase. He added that these were corridors
that were not slated for rail in the future.
Director Walker commented that many agencies are in favor of
BRT projects because they can boost mobility at a lower cost
and be completed in parallel with other agency projects.
Director Anderson stated that she would be supporting the
program because the BRT study showed responsibility to all
the other districts and planning for the future.
Director Mihalik stated that the first million was from DRCOG,
and asked if the $250,000 contribution from RTD would end
up being less.
Mr. Welch explained that, given the scope of work and the
internal cost estimate, that the contract will use the full
amount.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Pass Program Study
Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager, provided an update on the
Pass Program Working Group (PPWG). He explained that the task of the
group was to make recommendations for improvements to the pass
program, and that the working group was made up of a diverse group of
organizations. He added that the group has had eight meetings and has
looked at the issues with the current pass programs and has taken into
consideration information from the community regarding the updating of the
pass program. He explained that the working group has developed three
distinct options (Option B, Option C, & Option E) for pass programs and are
currently modeling those options for revenue and ridership impacts and have
also solicited feedback from Nonprofit Program participants via surveys and
engagement meetings. Mr. Washington stated that the PPWG based the
option on market segments that would fill the needs for business, colleges,
low income, and youth. He explained the three options stating that Option B
was bulk purchasing for any group, Option C included utilization based
prices mostly for businesses and colleges, and Option E continued with the
current model. He added that the PPWG were facilitating other ideas and
that each option included low income passes for families with $50,000 per
year income or less and 50% off fares. He stated that the preliminary
results showed that none of these options met the Strategic Business Plan
goals, the ridership gained would not offset the discounted price, cross
subsidization within pass programs was creating unfairness between
participants. He said some are not paying their fair share and some are
overpaying, and the attempt to right price pass programs and reduce
discounts posed a risk to ridership and revenue as those that experience an
increase in cost may choose to drop out of the program. He added that the
PPWG is on schedule to have a recommendation for first quarter of the
following.
Director Williams requested the date and location for the next PPWG
meeting.

Mr. Washington stated that the meeting would be held on December 19,
2017 at the Hoffman Library, 1298 Peoria Street, Aurora at 1:00 – 4:00
p.m.
Director William asked if the recent tax issues regarding Eco Passes were
being considered in the PPWG.
Mr. Washington stated that this would be considered and did not impact the
developed options.
Director Williams asked if a fixed rate option would be considered.
Mr. Washington explained that would be modeled and the results would be
presented.
Director Menten asked how much data from tapping has gone into the
PPWG data.
Mr. Washington explained that all the tap data that has been gathered would
be included.
Director Menten asked how many people were tapping and giving data.
Mr. Washington explained that the agency had not broken down the data in
that way but had used the taps required for this study.
Director Menten asked what type of pass or payment were used by groups
who were under or overcharged and asked who were in those groups.
Mr. Washington explained that it was not in one particular area or group and
that there were businesses that pay more and others that pay less.
Director Menten asked if the payment differences would be determined by
Service Level Areas.
Mr. Washington explained that this was broken down in the last report and
that he would send that report to the Board Office.
Director Walker asked if specific discounts created revenue loss.
Mr. Washington explained that all the discounts prevented revenue.
Director Francone asked if some of the organizations dropped out of the
PPWG, because they were not included on the list of participating
organizations.

Mr. Washington stated that University of Colorado was participating and
that Jefferson County would provide feedback through the public
participation process instead of being part of the PPWG.
Director Francone asked how the 70% for a youth discounted pass was
determined.
Mr. Washington explained that the PPWG attempted to balance the amount
that youth and families with youth would find feasible. He added that there
was not a lot of data regarding youth ridership and that the percentage
would be expected to change based on the modeling data.
Director Francone asked if the modeling data would be presented at the next
meeting and requested an explanation of utilization-based pricing and
insurance model pricing.
Mr. Washington explained that under the utilization-based pricing a customer
pays for what they use and would be billed on a monthly basis of trips taken
(Option C), and with the insurance model businesses would pay annually and
the option would allow for businesses to cross subsidize each other.
Director Francone asked who would verify low income participants.
Mr. Washington explained that RTD would not be responsible for verifying
means and that the agency would work with other agencies and
organizations to determine those qualifications, and that detail would need
to be worked out.
Director Tisdale stated that there was much more information on the RTD
website under PPWG including agendas, reports, and minutes from
meetings. He added that it was important that the PPWG maintain a clear
vision of the roles and what was originally proposed to do in the study.
Mr. Washington explained that when the PPWG released the preliminary
results it revealed that the modeling was not meeting the original goals and
guiding principles, and the working group was very well aware of meeting
those principles and guidelines. He added that he would like to discuss
concern with Director Tisdale in greater detail.
Director Tisdale agreed and stated that the PPWG had only included three
comparable transit agency patterns and would appreciate more consideration
of what other agencies do.
Director Folska asked when the study would be finished.

Mr. Washington stated that it would be completed in the first quarter of the
following year (2018).
Director Folska asked when fare increases would come back to the Board for
approval.
Mr. Washington stated that the Board reviewed fare costs every three years
and that changes would be voted on beginning in 2019.
Director Folska asked for explanation of how groups were over paying.
Mr. Washington explained that, when the number of rides verses the cost of
the passes were compared, some businesses were paying $100 per ride.
Director Folska commented that if the businesses encouraged their
employees to use the passes then that cost would come down. She added
that there were businesses that benefit from people using public transit and
that it would be in those businesses’ best interest to assist with subsidies to
lower the cost of passes.
Mr. Washington agreed but explained that the PPWG was not in the position
to work on proposals with organizations and businesses.
Director Folska asked if the PPWG considered groups of students should be
entitled to the same student or youth discount status.
Mr. Washington stated that this had been central to the student pass
discussions and that the student/youth must have proof of affiliation to an
organization in order to receive any pass benefit/discount.
Director Broom asked if the 70% discount was off of the full fare price and
what was the monetary value of that discount.
Mr. Washington explained that the discount was 70% off of the cash fare,
and the exact cost and monetary value would be determined by the
modeling.
Director Sisk asked if Option E was the only one that kept the Eco Pass.
Mr. Washington stated that it keeps the current version of the Eco Pass.
Director Sisk asked if the fixed income that came from colleges and other
organizations would be removed with the proposed options, and if the PPWG
was considering those finances and the impact of losing that income with
the implementation of a new pass program.

Mr. Washington explained that the working group was still working through
those issues and was aware of what those programs do for the agency.
Director Sisk stated that it may be understood by the working group but it is
the Board’s decision and that money will undermine the study. He added
that he hoped the options provided take that income into consideration
before being brought to the Board.
Chair Hoy stated that many committees have the issue that goals and ideas
change as a working group begins, but that RTD could not afford to give up
revenue and that there were agencies that do that want subsidized fares to
address low income issues. He added that RTD should not subsidize schools
as they are both government agencies. Chair Hoy stated that the nonprofit
program was limited to a maximum outlay of $6.8 million and RTD should
not subsidize greater than that amount.
Director Menten agreed with Chair Hoy.
Director Walker asked if there would be any cost savings with these options.
Mr. Washington stated that cost savings had not been determined.
Director Anderson commented that someone had to pay for transit, which is
a commodity, and that, if there are some social needs, they should be taken
care of by other organizations created to help those with needs. She added
that it was not RTD’s job to provide free transit.
Director Folska stated that whether people used public transit or not the
public benefitted by having it.
Director Williams asked if the 70% discount would benefit the schools.
Mr. Washington explained that the discount would be available to all youth
and organizations that purchased passes for youth that are 19 and under.
General Manger Genova commented the PPWG and RTD staff knew there
would be a lot of discussion on the issue pass program. He stated that the
high level recommendation must be fiscally sustainable and have
consensuses. He stated that the PPWG was committed to being open and
transparent, having a wide variety of stakeholders, and preserving upfront
revenue. Lastly, he stated that every three years’ rates and fares are
reviewed and that 2018 would be a year the Board would review RTD rates,
and the timing of the PPWG would tie in with this issue.

Director Tisdale commented that the PPWG should not select only one
alternative to present and that there was a need to have several proposals in
order to be more productive.

• Transit Oriented Development
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, of Transit Oriented Communities, p r e s e n t e d
t h e u p d a t e f o r t h e Transit Oriented Development (TOD) department. He
summarized the unsolicited proposal procedure, TOD site assessment, and
the proposed TOD value evaluation guidelines stating the following:
Unsolicited Proposal Procedure Objectives
Mr. Sirois stated that the procedure was on line for organizations that would
like to submit an unsolicited proposal. He explained the following objectives
of the procedures:
1.
Clarify 2015 Board Resolution on Unsolicited Proposals
2.
Create transparent process for internal and external stakeholders
3.
Strategically allocate staff time
4.
Maintain objectivity and fairness
TOD Assessment of Potential Joint Development Sites – Categorization
Mr. Sirois explained the following objectives for the categorization of
Potential Joint Development Sites and explained the different categories as
follows:
Prioritize analysis of stations and PnRs in order to:

Proactively plan for development

Document transit operations needs

Manage expectations of value capture potential

Strategically allocate staff time

Improve negotiating position with developers
Categories of Joint Potential Development Sites:

Long - Term Potential Sites or Sites with No Potential

Medium - Term Potential Sites

Sites to be Monitored

Highest Potential Sites
Mr. Sirois stated the last piece of the presentation would discuss the TOD
Evaluation piece and how to prioritize values. He explained that it was
determined that there are two categories. The first was direct value which
would be items that the agency gains value from, such as ridership or
revenue. The second was indirect values, which are things that RTD gains
value from that may not be immediately evident, such as jurisdictional
support or sustainable development. He added that the following were
guidelines that would be followed to during internal decision making on TOD
projects, and that first there are principles that every project would be

required to meet in order to have joint development or TOD at RTD stations;
and second there are factors, which are elements that would be measured
and reported to the board on about how each project was progressing. He
added the below summary of the guidelines:
Principles: six standards all developers are expected to meet.
1.
The TOD project must be budget neutral or budget positive for RTD.
2.
The TOD project must be expected to increase ridership.
3.
Ground leases of RTD property are preferred over sales.
4.
The TOD project must reflect the Parking Guiding Principles (PGP).
5.
The TOD project must enhance safety and security.
6.
The TOD project must have jurisdictional support.
Factors - Eleven elements of a development project that will be considered
for every project; divided into Tier 1 and Tier 2.
Tier 1:
1.
Ground Lease/Land Sale
2.
Increased Ridership/Fare Revenues
3.
Replacement or New Facilities
4.
Outsourced Maintenance
5.
Jurisdictional Support
6.
Enhanced Operations
Tier 2:
1.
Improved Safety/Security
2.
Upgraded Rider Amenities/Access
3.
Community Facilities/Affordable Housing
4.
Sustainability
5.
Brand Image Enhancement
Director Francone commented that the presentation was well done.
Director Williams echoed Director Francone.
Director Tisdale commented that the presentation was an articulate wellpresented statement on how the agency should proceed.
Director Menten asked if the TOD department was aware of the initiative for
a ballot proposal that would limit growth in Colorado to 1%. She added that
there had been some proposed local limitation in Golden, Boulder, and
Lakewood that may be issued statewide.
Mr. Sirois stated that the TOD department has not been made aware of the
initiative.

Director Menten requested feedback as to how the initiative would impact
TOD at a later time.
Director Williams asked if, during the unsolicited projects proposal process,
the Board would hear all of the proposed projects.
Mr. Sirois explained that the process was created to weed out viable and
non-viable projects, and that the action by the board would be when the
agency entered into negotiation with a developer.
Director Menten clarified that the proposed growth initiative was regarding a
1% limit to residential construction.

• First & Last Mile Study (Verbal/No back-up)
Paul DesRocher, Manager of Planning Coordination, introduced the issue of
the first and last mile study by asking the Board to consider the that much
of the public stated that they would use public transportation if it went
exactly where they needed to go. He explained that was the exact issue the
first and last mile study would examine and that public transit did not
always serve every trip. Mr. DesRocher stated that RTD was recently
awarded $200,000 from CDOT’s Funding Advancements for Surface
Transportation and Economic Recovery Act of 2009 (FASTER) program and
that RTD matched these funds to investigate a viable solution to the first
and last mile issue. He added that recently RTD issued a Request for
Information (RFI) from agencies that performed a Mobility on Demand study
and plan to incorporate that information to learn how those studies would
assist in expanding transit and add value to the RTD study. He commented
that there would be regular updates provided through committee meetings.
Director Menten asked when or how to find out about government
regulations that would block the first and last mile issue from being solved.
Mr. DesRocher explained that the study would take 12 months and that the
initial stages would be examining existing conditions and problems, and
would begin recommending solutions and updates to problems that were
discovered.
Director Francone stated that the first and last mile had always been an
issue and that she was anxious to see as the study progresses if there was a
solution.
General Manager Genova commented that the study would provide the
agency an opportunity to look at the issue from a system approach and
address it universally. He added that Panasonic held a kick-off project with
a demonstration of an autonomous shuttle that would to provide a link from

bus service on Tower Road to the station at 61st and Pena on University of
Colorado A Line, but he noted there were several regulatory hurdles and
testing before that autonomous shuttle would be fully operational. He
commented that this demonstration was one example of new technology
that would be used to address the first and last mile issues.
Director Walker commented that there would always be some part of the
population that would have a first and last mile issue.

D. Other Matters
Broom requested an update at the next meeting on the G Line testing and the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC).
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that there were two issues around the North Metro Center
Corridor National Western Stock Show Complex. He explained that the National
Western Center Citizen Advisory Committee requested a name change for the
future North Metro line station located at 48th and Brighton Boulevard, and they
would like it to be called National Western Center at Historical Area it currently was
slated to be called 48th and Brighton/National Western Stock Show Station. He
added that RTD was currently working with the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and stakeholders regarding possible alternatives while holding the current name.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained the second issue was that CCD was making
modifications to Brighton Boulevard around the new RTD station and that the
widening project would require CCD to acquire a strip of property that would
reduce RTD parking from 40 to below 30 spaces. He explained that the project
would help the traffic movements on Brighton Boulevard and into the stock show
facility. He added that RTD staff intended to present a plan for the sale of the
property and how to reconfigure the remaining parcel. Mr. Stopplecamp stated that
CCD was working on a long range master plan that included parking that would
negate RTD needs for parking in this area, and that the benefits of this agreement
to RTD would be less maintenance and capital costs.
General Manager Genova gave a brief update on the PUC stating that a pre-hearing
conference would be held on Friday, December 8th at 8:30 a.m. with the
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) who would preside over the RTD hearing, which
has not been scheduled. He said it was an open meeting that would set out the
process for the upcoming hearing and explain the schedule. He added that the
hearing was anticipated to be scheduled in January and that the following day RTD
would be filing a motion to grant testing for the G Line.
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, stated that a there was a 14-day period for
objections to a motion and explained that the G Line testing decision would not be
expected on Friday.
Director Francone asked Mr. Reed if there was an expected number of attendance
for the District N open house scheduled on December 13, 2017.

Mr. Reed explained that there would be more information on the attendance and
the Mobile Lab Pilot Program early the following week.
Tisdale asked if there was an opportunity to lease the property to CCD for the
Brighten Boulevard project.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that CCD would be building a road and that the sale
would be best for the good of the area and the project.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 6, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 8:33 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

