May 14 2019
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Today, I was walking down the street-- this is just up here-- I was
walking down the street. The sky was clearly blue, just bright blue. And I started feeling these drops.
And they almost burned. And I turned around. There were people behind me. They're like it's flipping
raining with no clouds. And I think it was acid rain, because-DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, when you said it burned-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was like, whoa.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well , coming from the light rail station, I got a personal escort from Spider Man. He
walked me from the light rail station all the way to the front of the building.
ANGIE RIVERIA-MALPIEDE:: That's pretty fun.
PEGGY CATLIN: You could hear all the little kids playing in the fountain, ohh--Spider Man
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
That was really creepy.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: Well, we call the meeting to order, the General Manager's Oversight Performance
Management Committee. Tuesday, May 14th, it's about 3:04. And Jeff, why don't you give us your
name, and we'll go around the table, so we've got a record, because it's being recorded.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, Secretary, District B.
DAVID GENOVA: Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Second Vice Chair, District C.
VINCE BUZEK: Vince Buzek, Director, District J.
PEGGY CATLIN: Peggy Catlin, First Vice Chair, District M.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Shontel Lewis, District B.
DOUG TISDALE: Doug Tisdale, Board Chair, District H.

BOB BROOM: And Bob Broom, District F, Chair of the Committee.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Do we have anyone on the phone? Not yet.
BOB BROOM: Nobody, not yet, OK. Well, Mr. General Manager, I guess you're first up.
DAVID GENOVA: All right, thank you, Mr. Chair. So, thank you Board members. So today is our first
review of the proposed 2020 core and task goals for the General Manager and CEO, which then, of
course, become the core and task goals for the organization as well. It's been a good process this year.
We've been busy with a lot of items. I would say upfront that it's an aggressive schedule of activity for
the year.
So we have five core goals and five task goals. And so in 2019, we also have five core goals and five
task goals. And in previous years, we've kind of been more in the realm of five core and three task. So
again, just like 2019, we have a couple more task goals than we've had in years previous. So the memo
itself, the process, we had the presentation of the tactical plan on April 23rd.
And so then I take, myself and the Senior Leadership Team, we take all of the input that we received at
that study session, and then any follow up that we might receive from any Board members. And then as
we look towards developing the task goals specifically, we take that input forward. We don't go back
and revisit the tactical plan and make changes to the tactical plan, because the input is really geared
towards having us seek more direction and put clarity around the task goals.
So I wanted to talk about that process a little bit before we jump into it. And so one of the common
themes we had at the study session was on the address transit equity strategic priority. So when we get to
that, what I will be calling now a task goal, as opposed to a strategic priority, we did list a very specific
bullet about-- and we'll get to it, but the point is that I think we've added a few things to hopefully
address some of the things that we heard from the Board members, specifically around coverage, not so
much the FTA definition and transit equity and that, although we've kept those items in.
But we've added some things to hopefully address what the lion's share of the comments were. All that
said, the goals are split into two kinds of goals. The core goals, which there are five, have stayed pretty
much the same year to year, ever since this process began-- what was it-- 2010, or so, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, and so the core goals were developed right off of the job description of the
General Manager and CEO. So they are lined up to do those kinds of important things that the Board at
that time and then over time believes are just important functions, and activities, and goals of the
General Manager and CEO by job description. And then the task goals that we have for every year really
give the Board the opportunity to work on the specific things for that year, in addition to all the other
general kinds of things that you would expect the organization to do, and the General Manager and CEO
do. So with that, I have made no proposed changes to the core goals for 2020.

They will read exactly the same as the core goals for 2019. And so I'm happy to go through those before
we get into the task goals, or I could just say are there questions on the core goals, and we could get
right to the task goals. I don't know, Mr. Chair, what your pleasure would be.
BOB BROOM: Does anybody have any observations? What about from last year, anything? When this
was discussed last time around, were there any proposed changes, do you recall?
JEFF WALKER: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, yeah, there were some. I don't remember what we were
specifically. But there was some wordsmithing-BOB BROOM: Wordsmithing
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: Do you want me to give an example?
BOB BROOM: Sure.
JEFF WALKER: So, I think the one example that does come to mind, and please correct me if I'm
wrong, is that some wanted the exceeded goals to be combined. So Mr. Genova, the CEO had to meet all
of the elements of an exceeded goal to say that the goal was exceeded. That's the only one that's coming
to mind. I'm pretty sure that was a discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So can I just ask for a point of clarification? So what you're saying is
that the achieved goals and the expected goals are the actual expected goals?
DAVID GENOVA: Go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry, were you asking me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: So, we have-- let's say core goal number three, we have three --if GM fails to find or
achieve-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm talking about the tactic, the task goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're not there yet. We're on core goals.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, perhaps I could give a quick description then. Let's just look at core goal
number one. And so every goal is broken into three pieces. There's a needs improvement section. Well,
first of all, the goal is stated that, the general goal is stated, the number and then the title of it. And then
there's a needs improvement section. There's an achieved goal section. And there's and exceeded
expectations section.

I'll start with the achieved goal. So the goal really boils down to the items that you see under the
achieved goal. So in this case, it's achieved 80% of the Board approved performance measures. Those
are the quarterly performance measures that come to the Board on a quarterly basis. Creates,
collaborates, explains, and implements unincorporated, urban, suburban, local area service standards. It's
just kind of working through our service standard process. Presents a plan to not significantly reduce
service levels. And this is working through our three times a year service changes that we do. That's
what I would refer to as that item.
And I'll point out that it's an and. So you see at the end of each bullet, it says and, and then the next
bullet, and then and, and then the next bullet, and and. And then, this one I think was added last year to
the core goals. And that was monitors DTP performance and compliance, and reports this information to
the Board. That was an add to the core goal, because that was a significant change for us.
And then so, so those are all ands. So to achieve core goal number one, we have to, as an agency, and I
have to make sure we meet those four bullets as they're stated. And if I don't achieve one of those, then
we get into the GM fails to. So up above, under GM fails to, it's essentially the same four bullets under
the achieved goal section. But it would just mean if I fail to achieve any one of those. So just like with
exceeds, it's one-- just one of them would not-- would not for a needs improvement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: For the overall goal?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. So, it's robust. And so that's why there's the language bullet at the end of the
bullets. The other one I'll point out-- and this is really, I think, the only place this appears-- is for
performance measures, it says achieves at least 70% instead of achieves 80%. And I think that's just to
give the Board a little bit more flexibility if there's things beyond control. And then the exceeds are
things that are more the aspirational part of the goal setting process. So these are things that will not be
normally expected, but they're targets that we strive for. And then achieving any one of them would
mean an exceeds category, as long as all the achieves are met. And then this would be-- so it's all the
achieves, plus any one of the items under exceed.
So for example, achieves 90% or more of the Board approved performance measures. Some years we
get close to that. We usually go in a range between about 82% to 87% on those quarterly performance
measures, to put that in perspective. And then the other one here is about providing outstanding
noteworthy service for major events, or unscheduled events, or special events. So each goal has that
same presentation, those same three categories. So are there questions about that structure, I would ask?
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chair, I actually do have a question. It's a little interesting and maybe
you can help me understand this, because needs improvement says, well, he doesn't achieve at least
70%. And, of course, the achieved goal is achieves 80%. There's that gap of 10 points. And I'm trying to
figure out where would that fall? What if it's 75%? Does that somehow-- it's not needs improvement, but
it doesn't achieve goal. What was the thought process?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, my-SHONTEL LEWIS: At least.

DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, so my understanding on that would be that it gives-- I would say if it was 75,
I would say it would be-- I would say it's in an achieved, but it would give the flexibility, I think, to the
Board to come in and say what they believe. And it would come with an explanation of why. So let's say
one or two of the goals gets really-- or the performance measures gets knocked out for reasons beyond
the control of the organization, with explanation. And, of course, as with all of these, there will be
explanations on what it means to me.
And some of that, you'll be seeing soon, as we get ready to do the mid-year survey, and evaluation, and
feedback, where I will take this-- basically, what we do is take this memo and then populate the things
under the different categories to demonstrate that we've met them or not. And then, of course, at the
mid-year, it's only really about through about middle of May as far as the information that we'll have. So
some of the things that are scheduled for later in the year, of course, won't be met for the mid-year.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't have a comment on the structure, because I think it makes sense. Is it OK to
ask about a specific goal?
BOB BROOM: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Of course, near and dear to my heart-- create, collaborate, explain and implement
unincorporated, slash urban local, slash, suburban local area service standards. Do you have a
description of that some place? A more detailed description?
DAVID GENOVA: I would say that that would be our existing service standards that we have currently
for urban and suburban.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DAVID GENOVA: So, I would say this is our-- this would be the application of our existing service
standards.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just was trying to see what a metric would be for that.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah,
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's a good question.
DAVID GENOVA: And again, I would point back to that we're applying those service standards as we
do the-PEGGY CATLIN: Board runs?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes, the three time-- the service changes that we do three times a year or the run
boards. Yeah, that one's a little-- I'll admit that's a little bit of a wonky-PEGGY CATLIN: It's nebulous.

DAVID GENOVA: --statement there. And some of them-- probably more in the core goal areas, some
of those are maybe not as definitive as they could be.
SHONTEL LEWIS: In the evaluation of these, do you all provide us with a rubric that we could use to
evaluate you on how you were able to achieve these goals?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, what we-- what we provide is a couple of tools. So we do a very detailed
memo that describes how we felt we-- or how I felt we achieved the goal, with an explanation around it.
So you'll get kind of my explanation. And then you'll have the-- the tool that then you'll have to actually
do the assessment is a survey.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's the survey you sent out?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, and the survey will map up specifically to each one of these bullet points.
And then you'll be able to just mark how you feel about that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Good.
DAVID GENOVA: Or your observations.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So like in like numbers, like satisfactory or not satisfactory, or is it more of can
comment in the document?
DAVID GENOVA: You can comment too. So it's two parts. It's a, OK, I feel it's either-- you have three
categories-- needs improvement, met the goal, or exceeded. And then there's an area to comment. If you
did-- if a ranker gives a needs improvement or an exceeds, there's a comment field for why. And that's
very helpful for me, especially if a Board member feels it's a needs improvement. Then that's good direct
feedback for me on what we maybe need to do differently.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And there are samples of all of those in the binder for you to review.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: And then I believe at the end of the survey, there's space or accommodation for just
more general comments. Because there's always feedback that Board members would usually like to
give that maybe doesn't necessarily line up very specifically with the goals. But if there's just some
feedback that a Board member wants to give, again, that doesn't-- you don't feel like it really fits in
these, or you feel like you have been able to comment or assess on, that's an area you can give feedback
to. And that's a very important tool for me as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then for the core goals, I'm just curious, because I'm new to the Board, how
you arrived at these five core goals.
DAVID GENOVA: It was a process supplies way back. Because this process started in about 2010 as a
result of a state audit that we went through. We had a long-term General Manager that had left. And then

the state did an audit of the General Manager processes. And a few things resulted in that. One of them
was this process, the goal setting, and the process of accountability for the General Manager.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: And so my understanding was that that was quite-- the reason we don't mess with
those too much, as I understand it was quite a herculean effort to come to agreement on the core goals.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Understood.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then everybody else's flows down in that same format for the rest of the
agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For SLT are all employees?
BARBARA MCMANUS: All employees.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it.
DAVID GENOVA: Similar, it's a very similar process. And then what I do with these, is I give them to- once the Board adopts them, then I give them to the senior leadership team. And I hold the whole
team-- I said, you know, even though you may not be the operations person, because consensus-- I
mean, we need to work together as a team to make sure we're working in an integrated format to do
everything. So then, the SLT then takes that. And then moves these goals down through the organization
to how they would fit in the proper places.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And I apologize, I missed last week, and you probably talked about this.
But I think I understand. So core goals are just these overarching goals of the organization and how they
get measured. They're consistent all the time. It's not like just this year we're going to focus on doing our
job. But actually do it well and all that. And the task goals are the more specific, pinpointed things that
have come out of our retreats.
DAVID GENOVA: Yes, that the task goals are-- so for every strategic priority, so for the five strategic
priorities, then a strategic priority turns into one task.
VINCE BUZEK: Task, yeah, got it, thanks.
BOB BROOM: Is that it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I could move right to the task goals if you would like.

BOB BROOM: OK.
DAVID GENOVA: And we'll walk through each one of those individually. So let's go then to task goal
number one, and I believe it's on page six-- well, page, not packet number. I'm looking at-- its packet
number nine. I'm working off a different-- OK, so this is strengthen transparent public communication
and collaboration. So let's go right to the achieved goal portion. And I'm just going to go through each
one of these.
Communicate in a proactive and transparent manner through the use of communications work plan for
events, developments, and issues to assure audiences are notified in a timely and proactive manner. So
what this means is that typically, for different kinds of things, we have a communication work plan for
events and other things. It depends on the complexity of the issues.
So, obviously, the communication plan or a work plan around an event would be what are we going to
be communicating, who are the target audiences, what's the hierarchy, kind of how the communication
would flow, like who gets first notice, second notice, and third notice. And then similarly, if we had
other things, not just events, but some kind of a development that occurs, or some kind of other issue, if
it would be large enough that it would rise to the level of developing a communication work plan for it,
we would do that.
And the whole rationale is to just assure that we're being proactive, getting information out ahead of
time. An item under development might be, let's say, Denver Transit Partners-- this is a timely one-needs to do some testing or something like that and there's going to be horn use. Then we would put
together some key messages. We'd say who are the groups we need to notify, when do we need to notify
them, what information do we need to get to them.
BOB BROOM: But you'd have a regular plan like for things like three times a year, when the schedules
change.
DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
BOB BROOM: As to how that information gets out.
DAVID GENOVA: Correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Ma'am-PEGGY CATLIN: So, with this T2, there's going to be a real proactive engagement process. So with
that would fall under the development or would that be a special case.
DAVID GENOVA: That may be-- that would probably be an entirely separate-- the engagement and the
plan with that would be kind of its own animal and not really fit under this specific goal.
PEGGY CATLIN: Although the timely and proactive I think it is--

DAVID GENOVA: Oh, absolutely, it has to be components of what we do with the T2 process. The
next is develop topic area or issue specific key messages and fact sheets. And this would just be on an
as-needed basis. So just like we're doing now for key messages for the opening of the E, F and R, and
the G line, or key messages around quiet zones, or key messages around the testing, things like that.
Refresh director district profile-- this is just to make sure that every year, we will look at your district
profiles and update them so they have the latest information on a year to year basis. Hold one
community-- this is a relatively new one-- hold one community engagement and listening opportunity
per director district with director input. Director input means that we would select-- we would solicit
director input before we would schedule an event.
So, sometimes these things kind of happen organically, but I think if we're intentional about saying we're
going to do at least one in each district-- now that doesn't mean that's a maximum, there could be more.
But we want to set a framework. And we want to make sure that we hit each district, because sometimes
we don't hit each district. Sometimes it's up to a Board member. And sometimes a Board member won't
specifically ask, or something like that, or it gets towards the end of the year, and we don't have time to
squeeze it in. But this way, we can kind of set a schedule around, and it would be intentional.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So, I just have a question of clarity.
BOB BROOM: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Community engagement and listening opportunity, is that different from the
telephone townhalls, or is that in addition to?
PEGGY CATLIN: That was exactly my question.
DAVID GENOVA: This would be-- this would be-- and I'm sorry, I could have been more clear on that.
This would be in addition to the telephone town halls. Because the telephone town halls are a good tool.
And I would probably list that under-- we have some of the core goals-- there's one core goal around
communication. And that's probably where we would talk about doing the town hall. But this would be-I'll be very clear, this would be in addition to.
And I added a listening piece. I mean, that's always part of engagement when I think about it, but that
was a specific message I heard from a few Board members, that we want to make sure we are not just
out there putting information out, but we're listening.
BOB BROOM: There's four directors that are involved partially in Aurora. So when you appear at the
Aurora Chamber of Transformation Committee to give an update, I guess you could knock off four
districts at that one time.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, that's not my intent. So something like that would be-- that's just a
presentation-- I would label that as one of the presentations I give to stakeholders or interested things.
This is meant to be very focused, very specific about Chair Broom, we'd like to plan an engagement
activity for you or an event in your district. These are some ideas we have, what would you like to see.

So we would sit down with each director and kind of talk through that. It would be very specific for that
director in that area.
BOB BROOM: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: 2020.
DAVID GENOVA: 2020. Now, if we can do some of this in '19, I'm happy to-- I'm happy to oblige,
because tonight during my GM report, you'll hear of just a real small one we did, just-- was that last
week, the week before last?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVID GENOVA: It was two weeks ago. Yeah, it was two weeks ago.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's all one blurry day.
DAVID GENOVA: But I mean, there's always that opportunity. All a director has to do, is if we don't
have something planned, just ask. And I know we're working on the schedule for the telephone town
halls coming up, it's coming up soon.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Dave, I have a question, if that's OK with you. I wonder how we can also get SLT
to attend some of these meetings. And maybe it's not a part of your goal, it may be a task goal or maybe
it's not here, like in this one, maybe it falls somewhere else. But I think it's a great opportunity to not just
have you out, but also staff.
DAVID GENOVA: And that is a goal of mine. Even this year, as I talk and work with SLT, is to get
them out at things. For example, yesterday, on the elected strain for E, F and R, we had several SLT
members with us. And it's something that I highly encourage. And I also, in their goals, kind of give
them some specific things about doing those kinds of things. I don't say that you have to attend like five,
or three, or anything like that. But it is an expectation of mine that I have given to all of them. Because I
think that we need to do a better job at the community seeing our senior leaders, not just the Board
members, but our senior leadership team, and our senior managers out in the communities.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a question about the telephone town meetings, because they seem
pretty controlled. And people feel like when they call in, they don't get to speak. I'm wondering if you-and I don't know if I do it here-- if there might be a consideration to use another avenue for that kind of
an experience in the community, like maybe using Telemundo for the Latino community, where they're
actually watching and will participate, as opposed to calling in.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I think we can look for those kinds of activities. We did do one Spanish
telephone town hall last year.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cool.
DAVID GENOVA: And we learned from it. We didn't get a great degree of participation, but we
learned from it. We also have another tool-- what is that, it was under a former communications person-the mobile lab.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The mobile lab.
DAVID GENOVA: And the mobile lap, we can use in a smaller group. We can go out and people can
engage on a laptop or on a computer. And the nice thing about it is, it's a way to really get everybody's
participation, as opposed to it kind of being maybe controlled by the loudest voice or a couple voices in
the room. So we have a variety of different tools. And I think that's just a discussion we can have a
follow-up with our team.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: Hold regional PIO briefings. A PIO is a Public Information Officer for different
locations. Establish an RTD newsroom, utilizing blog, video, news releases, podcasts, thought
leadership articles, and social media. And so, this is a concept where we want to do more with getting
out the RTD message without having to go through media outlets. I mean, certainly, we will use media
outlets, just as we do today.
But the whole notion here is in a very proactive manner to try to get more information out from the RTD
perspective on things, and doing more with video messaging, and things like that. And this is one I'm
really particularly excited about, because it's something I've been wanting to work on the last few years.
And I think we have the team-- I think we have the team right now to be able to do it.
DOUG TISDALE: That's great.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's amazing.
DAVID GENOVA: And we're cognizant, it's like, we're not going to build a media center or anything.
This won't be a big budget item.
PEGGY CATLIN: Floor to ceiling.
DAVID GENOVA: Develop a rapid response plan for emerging news and hold periodic media visits. So
that's what we have for achieve goals. It's a lot of things. But I think it's all doable. And I think they're
good targets for us.
BOB BROOM: How many active media people are there now? It seems to me like the numbers are
dwindling every year.
DAVID GENOVA: In terms of media outlets?
BOB BROOM: Yeah, that cover RTD.

DAVID GENOVA: Well, certainly, the newspapers are-- we've seen a real shrinkage of newspaper
coverage, even the local newspapers, to a degree, although some of those are still hanging on. The one
thing we see, particularly with the one main newspaper now, The Denver Post, is we see a variety of
different reporters. It used to be we had the same reporter all the time covering our issues. And that
happens to a degree. But like today, the person that would normally be on the media train for the post, it
wasn't John Aguilar. It was another person that I'd met for-- I'd met for the first time.
But I think what we're seeing more of-- we're seeing less emphasis on traditional kinds of media and
newspapers, and even network broadcast news. Most people are getting their information internet,
social, and things like that. Because let's face it, by the time we get home and we're unwinding at 10,
we've probably heard everything that's-- heard or seen everything that's they're going to broadcast at 10.
And so, I think the next ones to get seriously impacted are going to be the network broadcasts. But we
are seeing more increase with the blogs, and consolidations of the blogs into almost kind of forming,
almost like a traditional newspaper, if you will. We're seeing more of that. And more on the social
realm. In fact, there's organizations-- one of them is called Axom or Axiom. And they-- I just saw a
presentation on them at the last APTA Conference I was at. And their whole thing is to just be on
Twitter, and be concise. And again, that these are all traditional journalists that used to work in
traditional media things. And they're doing just a social media thing now. But it's a national
organization.
So some things we have for targets under exceeds is redesigning the website to enhance navigation and
availability of most relevant customer agency information. So I've received some feedback on that. One,
for me, would be write quarterly industry related thought leadership articles, enhance writer alerts to
include more detailed route specific information. And that's something that I think Board members have
been asking for. There's some technology challenges around that. And so that's why that would appear
under and exceed and not an achievement.
BOB BROOM: What about the request we've heard numerous times about posting, I guess, our accounts
payable, or whatever, the district expense, so the public can see it? I'm not convinced that that's
extremely important, but it is apparently to some of the Board members.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, if I may, Mr. Chair, we do post a variety of reports, financial reports, accident
information, security related information. It's in our report part of the website. And I think this is where
some of the-- some of the feedback we've had is that, regarding the website, is it's great if you want to
jump on, and where do I want to get to, and what time, and how much does it cost. But if I want to find
other things about RTD, it's hard to find that stuff. So we do have some form of a report of every
expenditure on there. It's just not in a format that then somebody can take and manipulate it, and sort it,
and do all kinds of things with it.
BOB BROOM: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you think-- a follow up-DAVID GENOVA: Yes.

SHONTEL LEWIS: The exceeds expectations, it says redesign website to enhance navigation, I recall
that this is something that you all are currently working on.
DAVID GENOVA: We're doing a migration right now. So we want to get that migration completed.
And I'm sorry, I can't tell you exactly-- I think we're changing not the technology, but the way in which
it's done or something like that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's a new platform.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, that's good vocabulary. So once we get that migration done, then we can
take a look at the overall design and navigation, and see if there's changes and improvements we can
make. I would say maybe one of the reasons we have this as an exceed is we kind of feel better about
prioritizing things under achieved goals. So if this is something we just don't get to, that's why we listed
it there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that.
DAVID GENOVA: You're welcome. Task goal number two, address transit equity. So I'll go right to the
bullet that we added. The bullet we added under achieve goal is evaluate transportation options or
alternatives to fixed route service in demographic and geographic areas that do not support fixed route
service according to service standards. And what I hope to capture there is that that's what I think I'm
hearing mostly around the message around service areas. This area seems to be underserved, this area
seems to be underserved, what kinds of options or alternatives could there be.
And so the idea here is that we will look at the entire district. So this is a fairly large undertaking. And
so rather than have a bunch of specific things, I thought I would try to capture it in one goal that I
thought I was mainly hearing. And then we have maybe one or two other things in a couple of the other
goals under future and then under ridership that might look at this a little bit too.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. So one of the things that I heard at our retreat and so forth was not just the
coverage issue, which is great, to explore that, but also in terms of regional equity and the build out of
our system, and specifically FasTracks. And it's kind of akin to the resolution we passed recently. But I
would like to see some language evidence, such as, after service standards-- and explore strategies and
options to ensure FasTracks system build-out in districts where such build-out is incomplete. I'm not
saying build it out in 2020, but explore strategies and options that may be available in the future to bring
that to fruition. I think it's important that we again reiterate that, not just in that resolution, but as one of
our goals. And probably going to be an ongoing goal.
DAVID GENOVA: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair.

DAVID GENOVA: Other feedback comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One of the things that-- I think in light of all of the discussion that we've
had on demographic and geographic areas, dealing with equity, that in developing your equity training
program, to show the difference between equity and equality, I guess, is what I am really focused on.
And when you're developing this equity training to foster inclusive environment, who do you mean by
public and employees? Like, can the Board also be part of that training as well?
DAVID GENOVA: Sure, I can-- why don't I add that, just so we are clear. Let me see, that is bullet
number two.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And if I may add to that, I think one of the things we've talked about with the
equality versus equity is social equity and geographical equity. And I think that's probably-- I think that
will be important defining those things within their trainings, so that we all have this common language
around what we're talking about specifically.
DAVID GENOVA: So just defining that within the language, not necessarily here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And maybe it's a part of the training. I mean, I trust that you will create that in a
way that makes the most sense.
DAVID GENOVA: I want to make sure I capture that. Social and geographic equity is defined.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: OK. So it doesn't necessarily need to appear in the goal, but make sure we address it
in the training.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Mm-hmm.
VINCE BUZEK: And if nobody had any objection to the language I quoted, I'll pass that on to Barbara
or Dave, and consider that.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, so what I would suggest there, is that if the Board, or the committee, it is in
favor of that, what I would suggest is just adding that as a separate bullet.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. That's be great.
DAVID GENOVA: Then it separates the two.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure, I think you're right. I agree.

DAVID GENOVA: I like that. And I think we are doing that work through the resolution. And so I think
it's appropriate.
VINCE BUZEK: I think it's good to see it there in a goal, so that only have we passed a resolution, but
we're making it a stated goal.
DAVID GENOVA: I appreciate that feedback. That's a good way of putting it. And I think it's helpful.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: So that said, what I well-- well, I might be getting ahead of myself on the agenda.
Let's see how far we can get.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chair, I just wanted to follow up, because I agree completely with
Director Buzek's proposed addition. And I wanted to make sure that General Manager had an
opportunity, if, in fact, it would also work well in one of the other task goals, it might be, for example,
under increased ridership. Let's face it, there could be some of that ties in with FasTracks too. I just raise
it as a possibility. But more importantly, even than that, I wanted to make sure that Vice Chair Catlin
had a chance to weigh in on this too.
Because let's face it, the discussion about transit equity is something that really was a commentary by
directors on the north side and the west side. And I think we have to make sure as we do this that to the
greatest extent possible we've captured the concerns that they were expressing. So I look to Vice Chair
to she if she has thoughts.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have some concerns adding it to the one goal. But separating it out, I'm comfortable
with, because I didn't find that geographic and demographic equity to be diluted by FasTracks.
DOUG TISDALE: I agree.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, so-SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I see that again.
BOB BROOM: --to Mr. Buzek's comment, that seems similar to core goal number three, strong
financial management, overseas operating FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance, et cetera. Achieve
goals-- where does it say-- overseas development of the RTD annual budget and financing plans for
future projects. So it seems like it's a part of that. What I wouldn't want to do is bog down the goals and
the elements of the goal with activities that will be covered someplace else.
VINCE BUZEK: I understand.
JEFF WALKER: I see what you're saying. I think it's great. I think it's good to identify that specifically
every-- well, at least in 2020, but I think that will be done anyway as a part-- I think I think I've seen it
done anyway as a part of the core goal number three, that he has to do as part of that.

VINCE BUZEK: And if I can respond. I understand that, but as with the resolution, I think the directors
on the north and the west probably would say that it's important enough that it should be separated out
and put in the equity section just so that our constituents can see we're really thinking about this.
Because this is what they're telling us constantly. And I-- set it out in such a fashion that-- I'm not saying
we're going to get the system done in 2020, but we can explore the options, and explore strategies as to
how we can make it happen. So I think it will be important for the constituencies on the north to have
some breathing room, to say, oh, here-- the RTD is really thinking about us.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- it's not the rail line, but would the BRT be an incremental achievement if
we could get that creatively financed, as a way to, number one, increase ridership, and number two, it's a
step on the way to a future rail? Would that be included in that?
DAVID GENOVA: In this particular FasTracks, there might be-PEGGY CATLIN: It wasn't designed-- it wasn't designated in the vote, it still is a step.
DAVID GENOVA: I think it could be. And it would be up to the Board to make that policy.
BOB BROOM: There's no equity here.
DOUG TISDALE: Speaking about equity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Its all chocolate equity.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: So, I think it could be, but I think that would be like for the Board to decide.
BOB BROOM: Send them the bill-SHONTEL LEWIS: It may be beneficial with that statement to call out the social and regional equity
because that's essentially what we're talking about, without naming the thing that we're talking about.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think you're right. And in my head, I'm thinking the core goals are like
the basic goals and then the task goals are like action steps that are going to take place. So I see them
different in my mind, which means that they wouldn't be repetitive. They actually could serve on two
separate pieces.
DAVID GENOVA: If I may, they're all kind of-- they're all action related, but the opportunity with the
task goals is it gives the Board-- it gives the Board to say, OK, everything in the core goals is important
to us, but this year, these are the things we really want-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's kind of how I think of them.
DAVID GENOVA: In addition, these are the things we want you focused on. And so, I actually like the
suggestion of putting this here. It could fit under a couple of the other goals, but I think that-- because I

hear this too from stakeholders, whatever the word they use, equality, equity, it's just all kind of tossed
about, and especially in terms of-- well, we don't have much service, we don't have a rail project, we
don't have BRT. So I think that-- I think this is reasonable to add here, and it's work that we're obviously
ongoing and doing. And I really appreciate what you said, Director, about it does send a message to the
stakeholders that we are looking at this.
VINCE BUZEK: That's important.
DAVID GENOVA: We haven't just forgotten about you and your concerns.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Question of clarity-- convene an internal equity work group-- how does that group
interface with-- I mean it's internal, but how does it work with or interface with the CAC? CAC? Am I
messing up my acronyms?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, the Citizens Advisory Committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, that could be a to-be determined. I mean, we could be wide open there as far
as what we do there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And with this, for this equity working group, is their opportunity to include-maybe it's the CAC, or maybe it's folks, just like generally from the district, as community members to
participate in that evaluation of whatever they would evaluate, identifying and responding to
opportunities to support capital transit.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I think some of that could be done through the CAC. Maybe some of that
could even be done through our other two ABA related committees.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
DAVID GENOVA: And I think that what I'd like to suggest is let us get this off the ground in '20, and
then see if that could be the launch for something maybe a little broader.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I respect that, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I might-- the next bullet point, developing a comprehensive safety
and security community relations plan. What were you thinking in those terms? Because I'm thinking
about the video I sent you last night.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I think this-- my vision around this would be-- or my interpretation-- really
this is-- Michael Washington was the one that kind of framed most of this as we were working through

this. But I guess what I would see in this, is that it would be really community based kinds of things.
Instead of just saying, we have security cameras, we have a safety and security design criteria, and all
that kind of hard engineering. And we have uniformed security, and we have police officers. This would
be more community focused. And in trying to understand also kind of a two-way exchange as well, as
what are the concerns that you have in your area and how could we have a framework for talking about
those kinds of things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you see an education component of keeping yourself safe around the
tracks-DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --incorporated in this?
DAVID GENOVA: It could be incorporated in this, or it could be through the communications
department, because we actually have one position that is a public and a community engagement
position, that is supposed to be all safety related. And that is Lindsay.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, all right.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, but that video is disturbing, today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is. So I should tell you, we received a video from a resident in
Montebello, who filmed a young woman at the Peoria station, with a friend-- I'm going to assume is a
friend-- literally throwing her suitcase over the fence, jumping over the fence, running across the tracks,
so that she could catch the train.
DOUG TISDALE: To catch the train.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: To catch the train.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And not have to go over the pedestrian-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And not have to go over-DAVID GENOVA: And not use the bridge.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And what we're hearing is that it's too far for them. There's no access
point for them, like there is at Central Park, or 40th-- those are all at grade. This is like, they have to go
down and walk.
DOUG TISDALE: Which station is that again?
DAVID GENOVA: It's the Peoria-- well, so we went through a great deal to grade separate the Peoria
street.

Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: And so, what I've asked the team to put together is the history, going through the
DIS of what streets remain open, what streets remain closed, why we grade separated that particular area
and not other areas. So I have them working on that history in response to that. I've also asked Mike
Meder-- I said, are we getting reports of trespassing often, like this in here. He said he would check the
system to see how many reports of that. But the disturbing thing to me is that somebody went and helped
her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: Threw her bag over. And she goes over the fence. And then I'm wondering-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And falls.
DAVID GENOVA: --if that person was in that car, that white car.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I wondered that too.
DAVID GENOVA: Because I was hoping to see if there was a plate, and we could be able to contact
them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I checked. It is-- if you're driving on Peoria, it's still five minutes to
drive from Peoria to the station. So it's far. And you've got Montebello to the north. And it's that
community that's trying to access it. But this young woman literally jumped over the fence. She fell
down, got her at suitcase and just ran across the train tracks.
DAVID GENOVA: Across the two freight tracks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was crazy.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's insane.
JEFF WALKER: So from like Paris, or Nome or somewhere.
Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, not to belabor it, but that was very intentional how that whole thing got grade
separated. So we'll put together that history. And then, we can-- that's a particular area where we can go
out and do some very focused community safety and security training.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think we're going to have to. The Montebello community is very
concerned.

BOB BROOM: Well something needs to be done about people have earbuds in that can't hear the trains
or anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I think there's something to be said about the community being
diligent about crossing these areas with a-- we need to do an education on keeping yourself safe and
really not doing these kinds of activities, because that was just-- I'll send it to you. It's just mindblowing
to watch.
DOUG TISDALE: Please send it to Barbara, so she can distribute it to all of us.
DAVID GENOVA: That would be great. At first, I wasn't sure it was from you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know.
DAVID GENOVA: Because I opened that. Because we get so much stuff, that I'm like if I click on this,
am I going to get-DOUG TISDALE: Was that on the link?
DAVID GENOVA: That was the link.
DOUG TISDALE: Wait a minute, is this really from you, because I'm not going to just open up some
link.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, later-DOUG TISDALE: It could be masquerading.
DAVID GENOVA: So you sent that last night, and I'm like, should I open that link or not. And I said,
well, I'll just ask you when I see you today-- did you really send this to me. And then I heard from
Director Williams that the video that Director Rivera-Malpiede sent you-- and I said, OK, that must be
all right. So then after I the heard her email, I opened it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'll send it to you. Well, I didn't want to send it to everybody, because
I'd get in trouble.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: So anything else on achieve goal? So we've agreed we'll add in that bullet that says
explore strategies and options to ensure FasTracks system build-out in districts where such build-out is
incomplete. So we will add that. And then, on the-DOUG TISDALE: If I may, if Director Buzek would be OK to that-- I don't know that it serves a
purpose to say in districts where it's incomplete. Just say the unfinished corridors, which is a defined
term. I don't like to sort of single out and say, oh, well, this district was treated--

DAVID GENOVA: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: I mean, it's just unfinished corridors. We've got-PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with that.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's fine.
DAVID GENOVA: Because that's the language you used in the resolution.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, that what we used in the resolution, that's consistent.
JEFF WALKER: There are some projects in District D-- there's a station in District D that's not being
built, and a parking lot that's also identified in District D. So there are projects, not just corridors. So
something general enough to capture that too, about those were partnership projects, and the partners
haven't fulfilled their part, so [INAUDIBLE]
DAVID GENOVA: OK.
JEFF WALKER: So we're waiting on that.
DAVID GENOVA: And then in the current second bullet, under the training program, we're going to
add the Board under an inclusive environment for the public, Board, and employees, and then add the
Board, and initiate training with the Board and executive level employees. Did I capture that correctly.
VINCE BUZEK: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then social and geographical, do you have?
DAVID GENOVA: I have that. I have-- my note is to make sure that we have that as-- that we define it
in the plan, but not to specifically list it in the bullet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
BOB BROOM: Is somebody on the phone?
DOUG TISDALE: Must be-BARBARA MCMANUS: Has someone signed on to the phone?
PEGGY CATLIN: They signed off, I think.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello? They didn't identify.
DAVID GENOVA: OK, under exceeds in that category, I have implement a transportation option or
alternative to fixed route service pilot project in an area not served by fixed route service, or obtains

grant or other funding partnership arranged to initiate or implement an alternative to fixed route service
pilot project, or implement safety and security communications plan by holding community meetings
regarding safety and security. I think the alternative there was that we develop the plan. But you know
what, why don't I just-- now that I look at that, and the conversation, that will be part of the plan. So I'm
going to scratch that third bullet under exceed expectations. Is the committee following me? Because
one was develop the plan under achieve, the other one was to implement it. I think we could-- I think we
should probably do both.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, would it be- just having gone to DRCOG this morning, the Regional
Transportation Committee-- never-mind.
BOB BROOM: Moving right along.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's in the second bullet. I was just focusing on the first. Sorry about that.
DAVID GENOVA: So moving on to task goal number three, enhance current and future transportation
methods. The right to achieve goal, present a bus stop consolidation opportunity to the public and Board
of Directors, and present at least to Mobility Choice tactical action item progress reports to the Board.
So the Board will recall, we have a number of tactical actions under Mobility Choice. So this would be
that if we provide progress reports to you at least twice a year. Identifies and presents a flex ride
demonstration project. So this doesn't mean we'd necessarily implement one, but identify and present
that to the Board for a determination.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair-BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could I offer a suggestion on that one, on the flex ride demonstration
project? Could you say identifies and presents at least one?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it's not limiting.
DAVID GENOVA: OK. Makes progress toward implementation of an additional transit priority project.
And I listed an example here. For example, digital short range communication on Federal Boulevard.
That's the technology to help us with trends that signal priority on Federal. So there's a variety of these
that we're kind of at the mercy of the cities on. So that's why we're just saying makes progress towards
implementation of one of these transit priority projects, as opposed to being able to complete one.
Because we wouldn't be able to have that under our control.
Initiate the development of specifications for procurement of the VW settlement funded electric buses
and charging station infrastructure. So we've learned a lot about electric buses with the mall shuttles, we
really have. And I think-- so the next stage, like we're pretty sure we're going to get the settlement
money. I'm not sure the final awards have been made. But we're going to have to do some serious
looking around on the specifications for these vehicles.

So, for example, the mall shuttle is a zero emissions bus. But what we're learning is a lot of electric
buses have auxiliary-- some of their auxiliary equipment is not powered by electric. Like, some of them
have diesel heaters, for example. And it's the auxiliary units that are creating the big drain on the
batteries and on the charging. So, I actually didn't know that an electric bus had-- some of them have
these diesel heaters until we were in that presentation at the APTA Legislative Conference.
Oh, and by the way, that firm, that CTE, they're helping us write our application for the grant for low
emission vehicles right now. I think it's due sometime this month. But we've engaged that firm that we
met to help us. The folks that were at the legislative conference, if you'll recall.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not sure it's going to be happening in 2019, so it might not apply here, but aren't
you working toward negotiating with Excel to reduce the charging rates?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes, and that's an action with Excel that is actually having to present to the Utilities
Commission to agree. My understanding is we're going to try to get that done this summer.
PEGGY CATLIN: So, it shouldn't be in the 2020 goals because you're going to get the permission.
DAVID GENOVA: Hopefully, we'll get it done. And then the next one-DOUG TISDALE: It's a gimme, you know-- 2020
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, it's a softball-DAVID GENOVA: Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator maintenance
employee headcounts. And implements one of the projects identified in the first and final mile or
mobility hub guideline plans. And accomplishes significant engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp
plan. And so we've just tried to quantify that. At least four Board updates, four meetings of the T2
advisory committee, and eight meetings of the T2 working group, just so we can track that progress and
demonstrate that that's moving.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It looks like that one is the same as the needs improvement in the achieved goal. I
think those two are the exact same.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, they would be. Under the needs improvements, they would be-- the needs
improvements would look exactly like achieved goal, but they would say or. So it's failed to meet any
one of them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Say that again.
DAVID GENOVA: OK, so a needs improvement would be the GM fails to accomplish significant
engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, you have to insert that language.

PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair-- on the second to last bullet, would it be appropriate also to include at
least one of the projects identified in the first and final model under mobility hub? Similar to the flex
rights.
DAVID GENOVA: Mm-hmm. We can do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'd also like to have the word that it may include but is not limited to, so
in case there's more than one. You're saying just to add one.
DAVID GENOVA: At least one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: At least one. OK, so it's OK.
DAVID GENOVA: And I would say that's probably a given, the way that I was proposing it, but this is
clarification. So that's good.
BOB BROOM: Because everybody all across the district is looking at things like this.
DAVID GENOVA: And then under the exceeds criteria here, it's more about headcounts, achieving a
high level of percentage of either bus operator headcount, bus maintainer, LRV operator, or LRV electro
mechanic. And those are rates we typically don't get to. These are also in the 2019 achieved. It's the
same language as we have under 2019, under workforce and human capital, I believe.
I've also added for exceeds a target of reducing mandating by 10%, from 2019 levels. And then also,
receives a new capital grant in order to advance an unfunded corridor, advance a mobility option,
implement a Mobility Choice tactical action item, or develops a plan to advance one of the FasTracks
unfunded corridors. Now that looks redundant to the bullet, the one I just read.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, two above is already there-- receives a new-DAVID GENOVA: So, I will-- well, actually that's develop a plan to advance, as opposed to-DOUG TISDALE: I know, I've got to tell you, I don't think a plan is exceeding expectations.
DAVID GENOVA: OK, so I-BOB BROOM: We don't have any reference to commuter rail anywhere in here.
DAVID GENOVA: In terms of-BOB BROOM: Well, you talk about light rail headcounts and all this kind of stuff.
DAVID GENOVA: And I would say that we don't control those, under the concession-- well, I guess
under north-DOUG TISDALE: I was just going to say--

DAVID GENOVA: North line, but we-DOUG TISDALE: You will.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I don't know where we're going to end up with those. So I would say let us
baseline that. And then maybe the following year would be appropriate to add into that. So anything on
number three?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I want to-- I'm trying to figure out how to articulate this. With the four Board
updates, four meetings of the T2 advisory committee, and eight meetings for the T2 working group, I'd
like to understand where the broader community falls into that and what engagement looks like more
broadly, past the advisory committee, past the working group, and past the Board. Because I would
imagine our constituents are probably going to hold us to some engagement to some degree.
DAVID GENOVA: Mm-hmm. Let me give that-- while we're sitting here, let me give that a little bit of
thought. Because that will all be developed once we have our contractor on board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, OK.
DAVID GENOVA: So, while we're sitting here, and working through the rest of them, let me-- let me
think and maybe I can add something general to that-SHONTEL LEWIS: May I-DAVID GENOVA: --to that bullet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just maybe comma, and a comprehensive community engagement plan, something
to that degree. So it's not that you have to know the answers today, but that we will figure out what that
looks like with our contractor. Or you could even name our contractor.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah.
BOB BROOM: That kind of presumes you're going to come up with something, because you have to
come up with something before you start.
DAVID GENOVA: What about if we add it just at the end, and say-- scratch the end. I would say eight
meetings at the T2 working group and report to the Board on the progress of community engagement.
DOUG TISDALE: You've already got at least four Board updates in the first part.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, that will be specific to the engagement piece. Or I can continue thinking about
it. Because I'm trying to think about-SHONTEL LEWIS: You don't have to respond-DAVID GENOVA: --what the deliverables were that we had for the--

DOUG TISDALE: Right.
DAVID GENOVA: Because I don't want to put something in there that we would call something else.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I want you to be comfortable with it. So don't feel like you need to respond
right now.
DAVID GENOVA: But your point's a good one. And so if I talk to the team, there might be something
like I could fill in there to make sure we're covering the engagement piece.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just add to say that is a significant component of the T2.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Outcome is, to the stakeholder and community engagement is a
significant element in the T2 process. So, it really does beg to have something in there.
DAVID GENOVA: I agree. And that's why I think we need to add something in there. So let me come
back to you on that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: David, I'm trying to make sense of what this process is compared to what I do as a
leader. So I'm having a tough time. So, forgive me. But when we go down to the exceeds expectations,
there are percentages attached to things. And I wonder if there is opportunity in the achieved goals,
particularly for operators and mechanics, like is there something-- is there a percentage that we are
moving towards as an agency that could be identified in the achieved goal?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, we're trying to get as high as we possibly can. The number does vary
throughout the year. I mean, we have made headway in '18, and we're making headway in '19, but it
does just kind of move around for a variety of different reasons. So it's really hard to land, I think, on a
baseline in the achieved that would be-- I'm trying to think of what-- it would really be kind of a floor,
you know what I mean? It wouldn't be a target for us if it was in the achieved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. Could we establish-- could it be to establish a baseline? And so, as we're
looking at the goals for 2021, moving forward, like we know where we were and where we'd like to go.
And even if the target is moving, we'd be able to say this is where we started.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I'd like to look at some more historical information.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
DAVID GENOVA: Before I would comment on that. Because I would say, even though we have the
situation over the last few years where we started to see an increase in this service, as I've looked at
some of the data, it seems like our operator headcount hasn't varied all that much. So it's some curiosity
as I was even working through this, is that I need to drill down in a little bit further.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that.
DAVID GENOVA: OK, moving on to number four, strengthen safety and security. Analyze employee-I'm going right to the achieve goal. Analyze employee injury data to prioritize actions for prevention.
Create an RTD wide safety risk register create safety management system dashboard for tracking
progress on initiatives on both leading and lagging indicators by the way those I mean we do that first of
all up we do some of that now but we can be a lot better at it so that's why it appears there the second
bullet and the third one we don't do those right now. So those are completely new functions.
Implement a bus operation safety audit process. That should be in 2020. How did I miss that? I can't
believe I missed that. 2020, in 2020, similar that of light rail. Establish a safety-- a security and safety
continuous improvement committee that includes union representatives, security team members, and
RTD management. This is more around the issue that we're experiencing with operator assaults right
now.
And so, while anecdotally, to me, it looks like those kinds of instances are increasing-- and some of
them don't rise to the level of that they're technically an assault by definition, but they're altercations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Harrassment?
DAVID GENOVA: There's-- I'm seeing enough anecdotally and so is Mike Meder in safety and
security, that we need to do some more work in this area. And we think if we engage the operators,
along with security team members and management, that we can focus on some things that we can do to
improve that situation. Continue the semiannual security roadshow and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions and share security efforts, explain the employee's role in reporting and soliciting feedback.
And Director, this is similar to kind of the community thing we talked about earlier. Sometimes I just
don't think our employees know a lot of what we're doing specifically. And so, as we communicate that,
they're like, oh, I didn't know that. So it's been very helpful. Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our
operators with regular training and bulletins. And this is a new one. Hold monthly meetings of the cyber
security staff with the General Manager and CEO.
So we're getting ready to make up a slight org change to kind of not necessarily change-- Sherry Ricardo
is our cyber security. I'm not sure her specific title. But she's our top cyber person and reports directly to
IT now. We're going to move that to report directly to the CFO and not directly to IT, but with a dash
line to me, similar to EEO, how EEO works now. Because I want to be able to have just the monthly
briefing. And I want the cyber officer to know that that person has direct access to me, through nobody
else, to be able to talk about issues, and concerns, and things. Because cyber is an ever-increasing
important area, we thought we would list that as a goal here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. A suggestion-- reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators-can we add and our security officers?
DAVID GENOVA: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.

DAVID GENOVA: And then under exceeds, we have we have a lot going on with the new SMS
requirements and rules, and a lot of new initiatives under the achieve goal. Some other things that would
be aspirational would be meet with ATU Executive Board quarterly to discuss safety management
system progress, programs, and receive feedback. Or develop a general safety training matrix for all
employees in each area-- bus ops, rail ops, maintenance, and facility maintenance to include all divisions
and functional groups. And establish an audit protocol for commuter rail and initiate that audit process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Question, do you meet with the ATU Executive Board currently, on a
regular basis?
DAVID GENOVA: We do a few times a year. So I typically will-- some members of the senior
leadership team meet with them more regularly than I do. And then a couple times a year, we might do a
full meeting of the Executive Board of the ATU and then the full SLT.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a thought in terms of-- and I think maybe it goes under achieved goal, and
that's under-- straight from safety and security-- increase transit watch downloads by 10% year over
year. Get people to download that, because that is such a lifesaver. And I think 10% year over year is
probably an achievable thing if we just get the word out. So that's my thought.
DAVID GENOVA: Increase transit watch downloads by 10% in 2020, over 2019.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. As I say, year over year, 2020 over 2019.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I knew what you meant.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair-BOB BROOM: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: With respect to the community outreach, and training, and safety, would it be helpful
to add a bullet that says safety outreach to the community or safety outreach to the community, and then
you could include in that the increase of the transit watch app by 10% year over-- just a general
statement about a plan for the community.
DAVID GENOVA: Oh, you mean combining that with that earlier goal that we talked about. Because
we have the develop a comprehensive-- develop and implement a comprehensive safety and
communications.
BOB BROOM: Do you have a count of how many people have downloaded the app?
DAVID GENOVA: I don't know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's in our transit equity.

PEGGY CATLIN: That's in our transit equity?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Should it be under safety?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Can it be under both?
PEGGY CATLIN: Can it be under both, or is that redundant?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's unfair, I think, to put it under both.
DAVID GENOVA: I'd like to keep it under transit equity, because Michael Washington must've had
some very specific ideas around that.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: That he's thinking would fit well there. So, I think it's inappropriate there.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing I'm thinking about 10%, if we can put some verbiage in
there about for those who have smartphones. Because not everybody has a smart phone and can
download apps.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, no, and the reason that I say 10% is just that, simply, let's assume that 1,000
people downloaded in 2019. In 2020, I think we ought to say, there should be 1,100 who download. I
think those are doable. And it doesn't matter to say by those people who have, because only those people
who do have a smartphone will do it. I'm just trying to say, if you do have a smartphone, it is such an
incredible tool. And just-- my own personal ad I'm going to carry around with me-- you'll never ride
alone. So this is my little thing.
And it's just so impactful. And I spoke with the media people today. It's just a-- and that's why I say, I
think 10% is a modest enough increase, that I think it really is under achieve goal. You ought to say,
OK, 10% increase. My guess is, we're probably not doing much more than 1,000 in a year. I wish it
would be a lot more than that. But my guess is we're probably doing that. And we can tell, because we
can do the statistics on how many downloads of the app have their been. And if somebody doesn't know
how, they can talk to me, I can teach them.
DAVID GENOVA: We probably know how many there are right now. I don't know if we have different
time points.
JEFF WALKER: What if the app developer stops making the app or somebody stops supporting it?
DOUG TISDALE: This is ours, this is not-- we developed this, didn't we?

DAVID GENOVA: No, it's developed by a third party.
DOUG TISDALE: It is, oh, OK. All right, it's just branded for us.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct, oh, yes.
BOB BROOM: That can happen to almost anything in here.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
BOB BROOM: If the Congress does away with a certain type of grants, then that can really foul stuff
up.
JEFF WALKER: Right, so there are some things that are within the GM's control and [INTERPOSING
VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right. But I think as the General Manager points out, if one of these isn't
hit, you can almost provide an explanatory note. It's kind of like we give DTP an excuse for blowing a
timing on a crossing if they give us the explanation. So I think we can excuse him for not meeting that as
an achieved goal if he says, by the way, the developer pulled the app, for example. Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: If the GM is comfortable with that, I will be comfortable with it. But I don't see that
within his, or the agency's control, who develops the app and who carries the app.
DOUG TISDALE: It's not in our control, but it's in our control as to how much we promote it. That's
what we're saying. Downloads is a result of promotion. If I sell something, and you're not buying it, I'm
not selling very well. If I sell it and a bunch of people buy it, I'm doing fine. I don't care who makes this
water bottle.
PEGGY CATLIN: Downloading and then there's using. And I'm curious what the actual usage is.
BOB BROOM: Well, it depends on how much they use RTD too.
DAVID GENOVA: How much crime there is.
PEGGY CATLIN: I mean, has it proven to enhance our safety?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, it's a great tool. I can tell you, to respond in the moment, it really is. And then
I think it does, not just from a response thing, but from the-- it's a deterrent as well, because as we
promote it, people see, well, hey, you're going to get reported. And then I think it does bring a sense-PEGGY CATLIN: I'm just trying to see what-- I love the app, but what's it yielding?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, and I don't know. These are good questions. I'd have to check with the
security team to see how active it is. But I know when it is used, it's-- I mean, you can send in a picture,
you can--

DOUG TISDALE: It's a lifesaver.
DAVID GENOVA: They get a map. They get like a little Google map with a drop point of where it
happened and all that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair, I'm wondering as this discussion is evolving, would it be
better underneath community education as opposed to here.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I was trying to get to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Only because if we're trying to promote it for community members to
use, it seems to me if we're doing an education component, that could be a big piece of it, in terms of
keeping yourself safe, download this app.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's kind of what I was getting to. Although, [INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: It gets sticky when you've only got one measurable item for that item.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know, but it could include something like downloading the app. It
doesn't have to be exclusive, but it's like may include, but it's not-- that's what I was saying, but not
limited to. This is just one tool in the tool box.
PEGGY CATLIN: For example.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, for example. And then we could tell them all about the app and
what it does.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I was thinking. Aren't we helpful.
BOB BROOM: Moving right along.
DAVID GENOVA: All right, so I will consider-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVID GENOVA: I will consider where we should put that, but I feel game to take on the challenge.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Stretch.
DAVID GENOVA: It's a challenge now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Stretch.
DAVID GENOVA: And I'll think about where to put it. That's good discussion.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do think we need that candy down here, though, so that we can
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Seems fair.
DAVID GENOVA: Number five, this is an interesting one. OK, so increased ridership. The very first
thing we've put on here is identify and evaluate barriers to ridership through rider and non rider surveys.
So there's a lot to that. It's a short statement, but there's a lot to that. We have pretty good rider
information right now. Non rider, we're working on trying to improve the collection of that information.
But I think if we're intentional about collecting that, and identifying, and evaluating those barriers, then
we can go about attacking them. So this is what I'd recommend as a first step.
PEGGY CATLIN: Would that also include our special services, such as flex ride and Access-a-Ride
ride?
DAVID GENOVA: It could, sure. Should I be specific to that regard? I'll just say on all services.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I was thinking, all services.
BOB BROOM: I guess the numbers we see on light rail and so forth, really jump around. Is the
technology such now that we're getting accurate counts?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, we had some suspicion on the last light rail counts that there was something
going on. But with the processing or somewhere along the route-- I think that Doug MacLeod and
Heather McKillop reported at the last finance committee that they thought we were pretty close to
getting that resolved. So I don't know where we are. But I will check with them.
BOB BROOM: Because, if you can't measure that, this whole part is pretty flaky.
DAVID GENOVA: I think we're going to get that resolved and be fairly confident in the numbers. Next
item, complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD services through the T2 study by the end of 2020.
I should say T2 plan, not study. Establish new service by opening the N Line. Optimize service on
underperforming routes through recommendations to the Board via the service change and run board
process. Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator headcount.
Prepare for and initiate collective bargaining agreement approach by fall of 2020, because we will
actually start that work, believe it or not. Because it was a three-year contract. That's why I like five-year
ones, so you're not always in that cycle.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVID GENOVA: Continue to explore new partnership of public and private partners to improve trip
planning and ticketing options, so similar to the things we're doing now with Uber and Lyft. And then

continue work on implementation of the new account based ticketing system and provide progress
reports to the Board. So that is our migration from a card based to an account based, smart card system.
So that doesn't mean that the cards will go away, but will be transitioning to the back office, through our
mobile provider Masabi. So it's a lot more flexible and a lot less expensive to do it than on the traditional
smart card.
So those would be the items under achieved. And so you'll see that those are just general things under
this increased ridership, because we could increase ridership tomorrow, but it would be painful at the
same time. So I think if we kind of take a strategic approach to this it would give us some good
information that then we can make good decisions on.
For exceeds, I did put in there, ridership exceeds budgeted level. And we know that we've been on, at
least on the bus side, a little bit of a decrease, and other things are up. And then, I had some questions
from a few Board members about fare structure. And not to dive into the fare structure thing, because
we've done it twice in about the last five or six years and it's a very arduous process. But this is a stretch,
evaluate the fare structure modeling and data from the past program working group to determine what
fiscally sustainable possible changes to fare or structure may positively impact ridership.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So zones?
DAVID GENOVA: Like don't charge fare? We can increase-SHONTEL LEWIS: Zones, like is that in that conversation?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I know that we've talked about that. And we started to-- not in the past
program working group, but in the fare structure review and analysis we went through, beginning in
2014, that was one of the things that we put out to simplify, was to eliminate fares zones. And we heard
from our bus ridership that's not fair to those that are paying a regional or an express fare and taking just
as long as a trip as someone on rail. So we tried to flatten out the rail fare. But it didn't fly with some of
the public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Maybe I should've asked-- oh, go ahead.
DAVID GENOVA: But I'm interested in looking at those things. So, for example, another question I get
a lot, and it's coming more and more, as development around the airport is occurring, is getting rid of the
hard zone at the airport. So, for example, and this is challenging, but our fare inspectors do it. Well, if I
just travel one or two stations, why do I have to pay 10.50.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 10.50.
DAVID GENOVA: Right, and I was just out at-- some of us were out at Gaylord the other day, and it's
the first time I've actually driven out to that area since the A Line opened. And it's pretty interesting to
see all that's happening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's pretty--

DAVID GENOVA: But I've been approached by hoteliers. I've been approached by Denver Airport,
Mayor Hancock, and others, about looking at is the tradeoff there, if you had more of just how many
zones you traveled, instead of that hard fare boundary at the airport, would ridership go up enough to
replace the fare revenue? It's hard to replace the fare revenue.
PEGGY CATLIN: But I think if you looked at one quarter, you'd have to look at all of them.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, this would just be the-- this example I give is just that airport fare, the 10.50.
So the complaint we get, or the feedback we get is, I jump on the air-- I'm at the airport, and I'm just
going to go down to 61st and Pinion, I have to pay 10.50.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, and the City of Aurora is concerned about that as much as Denver, because
much of that Aurora. And they've got that huge, new development that they're doing on the east side of
the airport. And what you're saying is, it's economically infeasible for people to do exactly what you just
said-- from the airport to 61st and Pinion.
DAVID GENOVA: And some hoteliers that run shuttles have approached and said, if the fare was
lower, we wouldn't run shuttles, and we would give people a voucher or a few dollars towards taking the
train, and then they wouldn't run their shuttle. So, it's something we may take a look at or not. But the
reason this is under exceeds is that we've gone through two pretty significant fare structure. Like past
reviews, and they are, as the Board knows, arduous and time consuming. But if there's opportunity and
we can get through it to look at some of the-- some of the information and data that we've already
gathered, we might see some things for ridership impacts, and we'll take a look at that.
DOUG TISDALE: I heard from Golden this morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I know. I turned away because I didn't want to hear it.
BOB BROOM: There's only one stop on that line where you have to play the higher fee.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: They're not happy with us.
BOB BROOM: And I told him, well, you know, it's like Pandora's box. If you've made an exception
here, there'd be no end. Yeah, if you don't change the whole system, we're not going to be able to do it.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I'm already hearing it from the N Line stakeholders too.
VINCE BUZEK: Now that you've mentioned it.
DAVID GENOVA: I think we heard it at the last city council meeting we went to in Thornton.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One final question. I know you've talked about the partnerships with educational
institutions, and I don't see it reflected here. And maybe that's intentionally. I just want to make sure you
get credit for the things that you all are doing, as it pertains to the recruitment and retention. And then,

the new account based ticketing system, when we were on our district tour, they showed us the new
machine-- or some new machines that were going into the southeast, maybe-- doesn't matter.
DAVID GENOVA: Ticket vending machines.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And those machines don't accept cash, only debit cards. And so I don't know
if that's in here, but I'm just thinking about the constituents in my communities. Because that's probablyPEGGY CATLIN: It's a problem.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: Oh, but there should not be just-- both options should be at each station. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: I see.
DAVID GENOVA: So we do have ticket vending machines that are credit card only. But we also have
to ticket vending machines that are full, cash and credit card. And can you put cash in the bus, as well?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. So my understanding, anyway, is that we don't have any just-SHONTEL LEWIS: If that changes let me know.
DAVID GENOVA: Because we cannot-- I will double check that with Heather, because if you heard
that-- but I'm pretty sure that-- because we have them now. I know, because I see them. But I'm sure
both options are at every location. Because sometimes that credit transaction is faster than putting the
bills in.
BOB BROOM: Now you're going to refresh this, and then it will come back to this committee, and then
go to the full Board?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, so I was maybe going to say that earlier. So the changes that we've talked
about, that it seems like there was general consensus on, I will add to this, and I'll do it in a red line
format. And so we'll bring that back to the next committee meeting. And we'll just-- we'll probably won't
spend as much time going through it as we did today. But we'll just look at little changes. And we'll look
at the red line at the next meeting. And then hopefully-BARBARA MCMANUS: That'll be June 4th.
DAVID GENOVA: Then this committee will vote and then it will go to the full Board.
BOB BROOM: On June 11th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have just one more question under the fares and the fare structure
modeling. And that is my understanding is to be receive the affordable fare pass, you're going to have to

have a picture ID card and an additional card. And I have constituents who are part of the PEEP program
for their children, but not them. They don't-- because of some documentation. And so there's a real
concern they're not going to be able to access the services of that card. That, and additionally, which is
just really going to pose a problem for a lot of our partners that we work with-- no paper day passes. Is
there any way you could reinstate just the day paper passes? It would make life so much easier for so
many.
DAVID GENOVA: At the discounted day? Or just the-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just the day passes.
DAVID GENOVA: Just the paper day passes, like the five ride or 10 ride coupon books we did for day
passes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Exactly. It would be so helpful to have a product that we can purchase
and hand out to community members or business people to try transit. It really is crucial for TDM.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I think that's a great idea. I don't know that it's part of-DAVID GENOVA: No, it's not part of the these-DOUG TISDALE: But I think it's a great idea to make sure we explore.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair-BOB BROOM: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: Dave, I'm not a member of this committee, but I was really interested in this.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You feel like it.
BOB BROOM: You won't get paid.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think these are great. I was really interested in this. You and I had a conversation
last week about taking a look at audit processes. I don't know where that would fall into the five.
DAVID GENOVA: And I would say that I don't think it really came up under any of the strategic
priorities at the retreat.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, it didn't.
DAVID GENOVA: I don't think it would be good to include them here. But I think that the Board, if
you saw the weekly summary memo I did on Friday, I included the information in there about what's
been requested in terms of the audit division for additional budgeting. So it's requested right now. It's in
the mid-term financial plan request. It will go through just like any other. So I summarized in there the

number of employees, kind of over the years. I think it's five more, four or five more. And the dollar
amount that that would be.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, thanks for doing that.
DAVID GENOVA: And also that the software requests that we have submitted there as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: So maybe we'll just wait till next year's Board retreat.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, but you know, I commit to the Board, I'll work-- of course, like with any
group or any division, I will work on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Was the question, Angie, whether we can get the paper day pass back?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: As far as I know, they're still available.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think they're going away.
DAVID GENOVA: I think our intent was to try to get rid of them. And I need to go check with Heather
and the team. But we may have just hang onto them a bit, because we do get some request for those. But
we really do want to drive people to other products. But that is a question that we get, is how do I give
somebody a product. How can I hand out somebody a product. And for groups and other things, we've
been trying to do that stuff, those push outs, through mobile ticketing. But we realize individuals can't
do that.
BOB BROOM: You had another-NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Actually, Two more. I was listening to the meeting as I was coming here,
and wondering on task goal one, strength and transparent communications, did anything change on the
exceeded, three bullets, or were any added? It was just hard to hear.
DAVID GENOVA: No, it stayed the same.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then, could you just go again. You said that there was some funky data with
the headcount for the bus, or the drivers. You said, even though we've had the issues with the headcount,
you had to check into the data, because maybe we didn't have as few as we thought?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, the--

NATALIE MENTEN: What was that comment?
DAVID GENOVA: Well my recollection is that historically, I don't think our headcount percentages
have changed all that much. And so one of the things I want to dig a little bit more into as I was looking
at some of these task goals and preparing some of the information, is the increase that we saw in
dropped trips, was that directly attributable to headcount, which is what I have been thinking, as it had
been communicated to me. But I'd like to go back and look at that headcount.
Because there was a question about should we just have a baseline headcount percentage under
achieved. And I said, before I did something like that, I'd like to go back and look at the historical data.
Because right now, the headcount's looking better than I've seen it. And so, what I want to see is how
does that compare to where we were maybe through that period and before.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all.
DAVID GENOVA: You're welcome.
JEFF WALKER: Two things. One on task goal one, achieve goal. There are two terms, and I'm quite
sure what the difference is. Bullet one, communicating the proactive transparent manner through the use
of the communications work plan for events, developments, et cetera. And then, second to last bullet,
develop a rapid response plan for emerging news. What's the difference between developments and
emerging news?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, the rapid response plan would be something more that, gosh, this bomb
dropped today, we got to be on it like immediately. So it would be more of a general kind of an
emergency response, a rapid response plan, as opposed to a specific communication work plan for a
specific event, development, or issue. So, obviously, that would have something attached to it that would
be specific. But we want to be able to have a framework already developed, and vetted, and tested, that
we know will work, in the event we've got to move very, very quickly. More like crisis communication
plan, kind of a thing.
JEFF WALKER: For which one?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, the rapid response plan more like in crisis communication.
JEFF WALKER: OK, so development is longer term, something that-DOUG TISDALE: I think the hang up is on the word development. Because I think what I'm hearing
Director Walker say is, well, isn't a development something like a rapid response type thing. And you're
talking, no, developments that we have over time, I think is the idea. As opposed to any emergent
situation.
JEFF WALKER: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: As that being an emergency.

JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. Oh, I'm sorry-- task goal five just a comment on the zones. I have no idea- O'Hare has its own fare zone, you go to O'Hare Airport, that's a special fare for that. Because of the
way Denver is laid out, this region is laid out-SHONTEL LEWIS: Like massively?
JEFF WALKER: Well, the city of Denver is only 150 square miles. And it's a city and county. So most
jurisdictions, most regions have-- where there's a bus system, the zone is a county line. So I know if I
live cross that county line or that jurisdiction line, I got to pay extra. Here, it doesn't seem like there's
area-- but because Denver is such a weird shape, and it's its own city county, and every other country
around it is like 700 square miles, like Jeffco is 700 square miles, and Araphahoe is like 1,000 or
something like that. There's no real good place to strike a boundary. So it has to be somewhere. So
concentric circles from downtown seem to make the most sense, although as the development changes,
Boulder and the airport, and tech center, it's difficult to-BOB BROOM: It's going to be different.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, it's different. So we either get rid of zones altogether. But we tried that-- we
looked at that before, and there was a problem with that. Unless developers start building things
differently, we're stuck with this problem.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will tell you, in Green Valley Ranch, they still have to pay 10.50. And
a lot of the Concessionaire people live in Green Valley Ranch and commute.
DOUG TISDALE: That's the point that really I think drives a lot of people crazy. And you can
understand their-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
DOUG TISDALE: Their concern.
JEFF WALKER: But there's nothing stopping any employer out there from kicking in and helping that
employee get to work, since they benefit from the presence.
DAVID GENOVA: We do allow a regional pass for airport. And that was intentional, because of how
many workers there are. And that's why a regional day pass is also good for fare to airport. So if they
have regional and local pass-BOB BROOM: We need to wrap up here.
DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, we do.
NATALIE MENTEN: 1: I just want to comment about the Golden Line, because somebody got to you
this morning, it sounds like. But back when we are going through that, we were and forth-- should it be

time, should it be zones, back and forth, months, and months, and months, and months. And we were
finally ready set to do that Golden station as all one fare. Boulder complained. Golden said, well, we'll
back Boulder up on that. Guess what? Golden lost their local fair-- I mean, they lost that opportunity. So
did that makes sense? I mean, we were on course to make that a local fair.
BOB BROOM: What was Boulder's problem?
NATALIE MENTEN: Boulder complained because they were always going to be regional, because
they're 20 miles away.
BOB BROOM: Well, yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: They complained and Golden said, well, shoot, we like Boulder, we'll just back
you up, and we'll write a letter to the RTD Board and back you up on that. So then they nixed Golden
becoming a local fair. So Golden stayed regional, like they've always been.
BOB BROOM: Because they're outside the circle.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And so, I bet the city manager knows what they did. Marjory Sloan knew
what they did. So don't just blame it on RTD. They could have Golden, been golden there, literally.
PEGGY CATLIN: And now there are new players. So hence, they're [INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: That's all I wanted to, say since they were getting through to all of you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: I know where this one came from, the communicate in a proactive and transparent
manner, but it's for events, developments, and issues.
BOB BROOM: Well, we were going to adjourn this meeting, unless there's any other business.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was just thinking about proactive engagement, just generally.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to go over-BOB BROOM: The time line.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Not for an event, not for an issue, not for a development. But just like generally, I
think in my district, I hear a lot of I hate RTD dialogue. And so like figuring out how to mitigate against
that, I think is just being proactive in our engagement.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just want to quickly go over the timeline. So I think we've hashed
everything out now. If there is anything that comes up in your mind, I would encourage you to send it to
me and I can get it to the General Manager and give the feedback to the rest of this group. But I would
encourage you to do that over the next few days.

So that Dave and the senior leadership team have the time and opportunity to digest all of the comments
and get everything back to us on June 4th. We'll have a formal vote in this committee of the committee
members on June 4th. And then it will move forward to the full Board on June 11th-- the full Board on
June 11th for review as an update item. And then-- sorry, as a recommended action on the 11th. And
then final Board approval on the 18th of June.
BOB BROOM: Would you get a hold of Troy and see if he has any comments?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I will.
BOB BROOM: Seeing as he's not here today.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I will.
DAVID GENOVA: So you would need the revisions no later than May 29 or 30.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
DAVID GENOVA: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Is that good?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I can probably get them to you next week.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And let the word go forth from this place that every director is entitled, as we have
seen here today, to sit in, participate in these, and just speak up in these, because when we create the
survey, we don't appreciate-- let's put it that way-- we don't appreciate directors saying, well, I don't
agree with these goals and these measures. We say, well, we had this whole process, and everybody is
allowed to participate. So be there and participate. So this will be circulated again. People have another
chance to talk. And then once it's done, then we create the surveys. All right, well done, Mr. Chair,
thank you, sir.
DAVID GENOVA: Director, you had called me earlier today.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hey, what's up. Who are you?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: All right.
DAVID GENOVA: Director Lewis, I have--

SHONTEL LEWIS: Did you like my morning email?

