2024-04-16
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, April 16 Finance and Planning Committee of the RTD will
now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone who is attending this meeting please to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
I want to say thank you to all of you for joining us this evening and to remind you that the committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will continue to be held remotely via Zoom, and they will be audio
and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial transcript of the minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. And during today's meeting, we'll
also be providing to you what is called Communication Access Real-time Translation. That's also known as
CART.
The CART provides access to everyone to see what exactly we are saying. Anyone who would like access
to this CART service should send an email to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a
link will be provided to you. Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish
for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of the meeting in Spanish. And finally, a live stream of
this meeting is also being made currently and available for replay via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members who are present this evening. Director Bob
Broom.
BOB BROOM:
DOUG TISDALE: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell. Director Dishell? OK, Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman, Vice Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. And I am the chair of this committee, Doug Tisdale. And I am present. And for
the record, I note that we also have Director Jaime Lewis is present with us. Excuse me. And I see board
Chair Erik Davidson is here. And director Troy Whitmore is here. And Director Marjorie Sloan is here. Are
there any other directors who are present whom I have not identified?

All right, good. Then we would now proceed to the public comment portion of our meeting. And this is where
anyone who wishes to address the committee regarding any topic that is listed in the published meeting
agenda for this current month or for the immediately preceding month will have an opportunity to speak. If
you wish to speak and you haven't already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone.
Now, during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses to whatever you may
say. However, if you would like to be contacted personally regarding the comment that you make, please
email the RTD Board Office at, once again, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And so now, in this public
comment section, I will ask our board executive manager, Mr. Kroll. Has anyone raised their hand?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We
do not have anyone present who has raised their hand indicating a desire to provide public comment.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, good, then that forestalls my need to give further disclaimers about if you don't
want to be recorded, you have to submit in writing, and so on and so forth. So we don't have anyone who
has indicated a desire to address us directly. Were there any email comments that have been received by
the board staff?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. We did not receive any email comments relative to
this meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Then with no participants in the queue and with no emails having
been received, we will now officially close the public comment period at this time. Before we move on to
the next item on our agenda, I want to take a moment to explain to the committee about a change in our
work plan. You will recall that the committee has a work plan that we adopted that identifies topics that will
be addressed by us at various times over the course of the year.
You will also recall that the work plan indicated that we would be having a conversation about TABOR and
about the polling that RTD has done on that topic at our meeting this evening. Well, simply put, despite the
very best efforts and the great hard work of our staff and the directors involved in the revenue diversification
working group, we do not yet have those results to share with you. So as such, I will continue to
communicate with Board Chair Davidson, who is the board's primary representative on the revenue
diversification working group. And I will endeavor to provide this committee and possibly the full board with
a substantive and productive update on our polling efforts regarding TABOR as soon as is reasonably
practicable. Thank you very much for your kind and patient understanding with that.
The next portion of our agenda relates to information from external entities. And there is one external entity
report on our agenda this evening. It's one we always look forward to. It's the semiannual sales and use tax
forecast that we get from the CU Leeds School of Business. This will be for the March 2024 sales and use
tax forecast. And at this time, I will call upon Doug MacLeod, our chief financial officer, to introduce this
item and to introduce our distinguished guests from the CU Leeds School of Business. Mr. MacLeod, the
floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. As the chair mentioned, this is one of two
semi-annual forecasts that RTD receives regarding its sales and use taxes. Within the board-- or excuse
me, the committee package, there is the presentation materials as well as the full report that is the forecast
for March 2024.

A lot of good detailed information in that packet, if you haven't seen it already, I would recommend paging
through that. However, this evening, we do have our distinguished guests from the CU Leeds School of
Business, Business Research division, Robert McNown and Brian Lewandowski, joining us to walk us
through a presentation. So, gentlemen, please, the floor is yours.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: All right, thank you, Doug. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. Yes, so
thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you to the RTD Board committee members. And I also must really thank staff,
Doug MacLeod and other people who are supporting this work, Monika, Kristin, and Todd and others, who
feed us a lot of input data so that we're able to adequately run our forecast for RTD twice a year. This is a
forecast that we've been doing since 2011.
And as Doug mentioned, we do produce a pretty detailed report. We've cut it down to about 50 pages now.
But there's a lot of information about the forecast, the short-term forecast, the long-term forecast, as well
as a lot of detail about our assumptions and measuring our error over time. And so this is a pretty interesting
project that we do because we are updating the model and reacting to real collections that RTD receives,
as well as reacting to changes in the economy, and sometimes very dramatic changes in the economy
when we go through events like the great financial crisis or when we go through the COVID pandemic.
So we're constantly revising and updating and reflecting on these economic changes and revenue changes.
And I'm really pleased to share that our short-term forecast tends to have an error of less than 1% over
time. This is something we discuss in the report. And we have a tendency to be a little bit low in our forecast
versus high. So over time, we've been high 77 times and low 94 times.
So we're fairly split. Our tendency isn't to always be high or always be low in our forecast. But we do have
a slight tendency to be low in our short-term outlook. So again, my name is Brian Lewandowski. I'm the
executive director of the business research division at the Leeds School of Business, University of
Colorado, Boulder.
Tonight, I'm joined by Dr. Robert McNown. And we have three other team members who are not with us
this evening, Miles Light, Richard Wobbekind, and Adam Illig. So the way this will work, I will run through
and provide you with a very brief economic outlook, talking about current economic conditions and
expectations. And then I will pass it over to Dr. McNown, who will describe the model updates and the
revenue forecast.
So I like to start with the national economic outlook. And I chose these 12 metrics up on your screen. These
aren't happenstance. These tend to be many-- or mostly the metrics that the National Bureau of Economic
Research looks at when deciding if the US is in an economic expansion or if we're in a recession or
somewhere in between. And I will say that economic conditions really have improved over the last year.
You may remember a year ago and a year and a half ago when the national sentiment was much more
negative about the economy in general. And it really was reflected when we would put this slide up on the
screen. There were many of these metrics that had red arrows or yellow arrows with very few green.
And now when we just take a quick glance at the screen, you can see that most of these metrics are moving
in a positive direction. So GDP is not only positive, but this broad measure of gross output in our economy
has been exceeding expectations. Employment growth has been extremely resilient despite the pressures
that we've seen in terms of inflation and in terms of Fed policy trying to combat inflation.

We see that even the manufacturing sector, which was considered in a contractionary phase for 16
consecutive months, it just turned positive last month. So that manufacturing sentiment is even increasing.
And prices are improving. I would still say they are higher than economists would like them to be, but they're
coming down. And debt is growing, but at a slower rate.
And so then we zoom out and look at consumer confidence. And when we look at the University of
Michigan's Consumer Sentiment survey or the Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index, we see
improvement year over year. And even six months, over six months, we're seeing improved confidence
with a little bit of volatility from month to month.
Business confidence has been improving. Even our own least business confidence index is now positive
after many quarters of being negative. So just as a quick barometer, we see general improvements within
the economy.
And I'll focus on real GDP for just a moment. So just a reminder that real GDP means that it is adjusted for
inflation. So even after we have stripped off these high rates of price growth that we've seen over the last
several quarters, we still see real growth year over year of 1% and annualized growth over the last quarter
of 3.4%. And real GDP, the four major components of GDP are consumption, investment, government
spending, and net exports.
And really, we saw a pretty good year of growth overall in 2023 for consumption, investment, and
government spending. On the consumption front, both goods and services posted strong growth. And the
goods piece is very important when we think about RTD revenue because we're looking at taxable goods,
not really services because services are largely not taxable. So nationally, we're seeing strong growth in
GDP. For 2024, the expectation now is growth of a little over 2%, perhaps slowing a little bit further in 2025.
So I mentioned inflation very briefly a moment ago. This visualizes it a little bit. So you can see that inflation
really started to take off in the first or even maybe the second quarter of 2021. And we look at this All Items
index, which is really the full basket of goods and services that consumers buy. And we saw price growth
accelerate to 9% in June of 2022 before as price growth started easing.
And I think what's interesting, when we just take a very quick look at this chart on the left, is that, almost as
quickly as prices went up, price growth came back down. But it hit a floor between 3% and 4%. And that
seems to be where we're stuck. And so we got an inflation report last week that was a little unsettling, where
prices grew faster than expected, about 3 and 1/2%. And so it shows that we're not quite back where we
need to be before we start seeing the Fed cut interest rates.
On the right-hand side of this chart, I think it's also important to focus on upstream prices. So we look at
the producer price index. And I also chose two components of the PPI-- manufacturing and construction
inputs, which exclude labor costs. And here you can see even greater volatility, where prices ended up
peaking at about 20% to 25% in terms of price growth. But price growth not only normalized but went
negative within these indices. So even though they're increasing month over month, the year over year
growth is flat, at best, even a little bit negative when we take a look at the overall index.
And we can look a little bit more closely in the Denver metro region. So this data is reported down to the
Metropolitan area nationally, not for all metro areas. So when we talk about Colorado inflation, the DenverAurora-Lakewood MSA is really a proxy for that.

And interesting thing about price growth locally is that we tend to have higher inflation than the national
index. In fact, when we take a look at the last 14 years, the Denver MSA recorded faster price growth than
the country overall 11 of those years. And then in one year we tied. So we only really had two years of price
grows slower than the nation.
So on the right side, you can see a table that shows the March CPI number, consumer price index numbers.
And I put it up here by component. So if you're ever curious, when I say the basket of goods and services,
these are the high-level components of that basket of goods and services.
And what's important here to note is that housing comprises 44% of that basket, followed by transportation,
which is 17%, and food and beverages, which is 14%. And so when we take a look back over time, this
housing piece has been a really critical reason why Denver's index has run a little bit hotter than the country
overall.
So the good news in March is that this is a turn for the Denver area, where we had slower inflation than the
country. I wouldn't consider this a trend. It's just a single observation. But the only real discernible difference
here is the decrease in transportation costs compared to the country. And I would even trace that back a
little further to our gasoline prices being about 15% cheaper than the national gasoline index.
So how is Colorado's economy doing overall when we benchmark to other states across the country? We
are still a state that tends to be outperforming the US in general. And so this is a narrative that we've shared
now for about the last 13 years since emerging from the financial crisis.
And when we take a look at some of these major components, real GDP growth, in the fourth quarter of
2023, we recorded 3.2% growth, which put us just above average for state growth nationally. I think the
really positive metric here is that Colorado's employment growth in February ranked us 10th nationally. So
you've often, perhaps, heard us talk about Colorado being a top 10 state.
We've returned to that mark. And in fact, when employment revisions were applied to 2023 job growth-- we
talked about this in prior meetings-- these expected revisions, they came to fruition. And for 2023,
Colorado's job growth got pushed up to 11th best in the country. So we do continue to outperform in terms
of job growth.
Population growth, this is an area of concern for us, where we are above average in general, but 0.6% job- sorry, population growth is just an area we haven't spent much time in. But we have for the last few years.
And we think of population growth as importing, bringing in trained, skilled workers that are ready to go to
work today.
And if we have that slower population growth, we think that also dampens future job growth in the state.
But in general, we see pretty good growth in income, we see pretty good wages in Colorado, we see high
labor force participation in the state. So we look at a quick barometer of the state's economy and say it's
actually outperforming most states in recent years.
So our 2023 job growth was revised up to 2.5% growth. That's beat our expectations a little bit for 2023.
We're still expecting a slowdown in 2024, partially driven by this labor force constraint. We're already on
the high end of labor force participation. And if we're not bringing in that much in population, and we have
30,000 to 40,000 retirees per year, it's really hard to continue growing jobs at a fast pace. So we think that
will dampen job growth in 2024.

And we also continue to suffer from a labor shortage, which is a national phenomenon. And this actually
started before the COVID pandemic started. But it really was exacerbated by the pandemic and by
demographic shifts, as we've had a wave of retirees hit the Colorado and national markets. And so we take
a look at job openings, and we take a look at the number of unemployed individuals in the economy and
just do a very quick ratio to show that there's 1.7 job openings for every unemployed individual.
And even if you matched up all of those unemployed with jobs, there would still be a shortage of workers.
And that's even if you could match based on skills, wages, location, occupation, and so on. So we don't
expect this labor shortage issue to get resolved quickly, but we do see signs that this gap is closing. So
we're inching our way towards improvement, but it won't be solved anytime soon.
And then-- just a couple more slides for me-- I put this up here because we like taking a look at national
retail sales and Colorado taxable sales. This is a fundamental part of the model that Robert will discuss in
just a moment. But it shows that there is clearly a relationship between Colorado retail activity and national
retail activity. You can see that the ebbs and flows, the changes within retail activity tend to match each
other locally and nationally.
And usually, Colorado is a leading state when it comes to retail growth. We've been lagging a little bit over
the last year. But there is some good news that came out of the National Retail Sales Report for March. We
saw 4% growth year over year in national retail. And we saw a 0.7% growth month over month.
So despite what we consider to be consumer headwinds, we see continued consumption in the national
retail numbers. We're able to take a look at taxable sales growth within Colorado. I just got the February
report yesterday. And we even saw growth year over year in Colorado taxable sales in February, though
much slower than what we're seeing in the national total retail numbers.
Interest rates have and continue to remain high, at least relative to the last 15 years, I should say, because
they've been much higher throughout history. But the 30-year fixed mortgage rate actually ticked up over
the last month. And we're seeing it having a slowing effect on the housing industry.
And then the black and the gold lines, it's interesting to take a look at this three-month T-bill versus a 10year T-note. I plot this here because what that's really pointing to is the short-term rates are higher than the
10-year rates, which is really describing an inverted yield curve, which a few points in history have been a
prelude to a recession. We haven't seen a recession show up yet, but this is the longest inverted yield curve
that we've had in this country in 40 years. And it just will not flip back to a normal yield curve.
So I'm going to close my section by just not reading all of these, but mentioning that we do create lists of
headwinds and tailwinds when putting our forecasts together. I think there's still a number of headwinds
that concern us. I described a lot of good in the economy when it came to GDP growth, employment growth,
income growth. Wealth is up at record levels.
But when we take a look at headwinds, I'm especially focused on a couple of factors in Colorado-- one, the
slowing retail environment, the higher price environment that we tend to have in Colorado that we are
concerned could be a drag on consumers locally. And I'll add another one here, which is property taxes we
have second from the top. And that's a concern because we know that homes and-- well, really, homes
were reporting much higher assessed values last year. It's hitting households this year.
And that's somewhat unique to Colorado how our assessed values reset. And so we think that this diverts
some consumption from other goods and services to property taxes, which could also dampen consumption

and retail sales for RTD in 2024 and beyond. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Dr. McNown to briefly
talk about the forecast assumptions and the forecast. Robert?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Right. Thanks, Brian, and thanks to the board for inviting us to present our forecasts.
So Brian's provided the macroeconomic background, which is really central to the forecasts that we develop
for RTD revenues. And in particular, as Brian's slide on consumption at both the state and national level
indicated there, there are common trends to many of these key variables. And we want to take advantage
of that in generating our forecasts.
The central component of our methodology is a model of the key indicators of the Colorado economy, some
of the same variables that you see on this slide that are given here for the National economy. So let's start
there. So you can see these, what are actually the Moody's baseline forecasts for several US economic
indicators. And we believe that the Moody's baseline scenario represents the most likely path for the
economy in the coming years.
And so we adopt that as the input into our forecast for the state of Colorado. And then in turn, the Colorado
economy, of course, drives what's going on in the district and RTD taxable sales and sales and use tax
revenues. So, in simple terms, to summarize what you see here, it looks like it's a fairly steady-as-you-go
picture of the national economy. Some of these key indicators are slowing down a bit.
The employment is the only one that really seems problematic in terms of a major slowing. And I think Brian
hinted at that as the result of the demographic changes that are going on that we're starting to face right
now, slowing population growth, in particular, slowing growth in the working age population. So the figures
for 2024 at 1.4%, that's not too bad, but then '25 and '25 you can see coming down substantially. And then,
in terms of these other key indicators, inflation is going to come down a little slowly. And real GDP is
continuing to grow at a nice moderate pace there.
So in the next slide, here's a similar display now for the Colorado economic indicators. And I'd say that the
picture is pretty much the same, although we do have a more favorable outlook for employment growth
over the coming years. And so our demographics are not quite as unfavorable as they are at the national
level. We do have some slowing in the expected number of workers here and expected employment down
from 1.6% to about 1% in 2026. But still, you can see those indicators are fairly solid, slight improvement
in retail sales from 2023, which was pretty weak for us as, you're going to see when we get to the revenue
forecasts.
So in our methodology then, these forecasts for the Colorado economic indicators are somewhat driven by
the national forecast. But at the same time, the model takes into account the interdependence between
several of these key economic variables within the state. And of course, another chart you saw from Brian
was that, from the different rankings of Colorado across those different indicators, you can see that we're
not-- our economy doesn't move in lockstep with the US economy. And so we have to incorporate those
differences in the model for the Colorado economy, the output that you see here.
Then in the next slide, so here we come to what is, of course, our main point of focus here, that the rather
stable growth in the Colorado economy that's projected and indicated on the previous slide carries over to
moderate and steady growth in RTD, in this case, sales tax revenues. While the picture is the same for total
tax revenues because sales taxes of course account for such a high percentage, 94% of the total tax
revenue is taken in by RTD. And so we're coming off a pretty weak year in 2023, where tax revenues grew
by only 0.3%. And that followed a really strong year in 2022. So coming out of the pandemic, things were
pretty volatile in 2022 and 2023.

Now, according to our projections, we're back onto a path for reasonable growth in revenues, almost 3% in
the current year, almost 5.5% in 2025. And then you can see continuing out to 2030, which is our medium
range forecast to rise. And it's fairly steady growth in revenues throughout that period.
In the next slide, so we can compare our current projections with those that we've given in the recent
previous updates. So in particular here, the blue line labeled by March 2024, so that's our current update.
And say you compare that to what we were saying a year ago, the red line that says March 2023.
Well, so you can see what's happened is that, in our projection of March 2023, the projection was that
revenues would grow fairly steadily in that what seems to be almost a straight line there. And of course,
what happened, as was pointed out in the previous slide, that revenue growth was almost stagnant between
2022 and 2023. And so from 2023 forward then, in making our current forecast, we're starting out at a much
lower base.
Our jumpoff point is much lower. And therefore, even though the trend lines look similar in terms of the
slopes, we're just starting off at a lower position here. So we always want to point out that there is some
uncertainty in this forecasting exercise. And Brian's indicated that, over the entire history that we've been
doing this for RTD, our forecast record is pretty reasonable.
But to indicate the uncertainty that's involved in the forecasting, let me talk a bit about this slide. So the
dashed lines, the tan lines with the dashes labeled high forecast and low forecast, so those are our forecast
bounds produced with a statistical model such that there's a 33% probability that the actual outcome could
lie above that high forecast line or below the low forecast line. So that's a pretty good depiction of the
amount of uncertainty that's in the forecast. It's inherent in any sort of statistical modeling. And we always
want our clients to be aware that there is going to be some error in forecasts.
Another way of-- let's stay with that slide. So another way of looking at this is to consider alternative
scenarios that are provided by Moody's. And we've chosen two alternatives, an optimistic one, which
produces an outcome slightly better than the baseline but not dramatically so. And I think that's because
we're pretty much operating at full capacity as it is. And so even if we were able to push things a little higher,
it wouldn't go that much higher.
On the other hand, the pessimistic scenario incorporates the possibility of a recession. You can see that
red line actually coming down from 2023 into '24 and '25. And so that's certainly a possibility, although we're
not saying we've seen those signs on the horizon. But Moody's has generated this scenario, taking into
account some of those possible headwinds that Brian mentioned could come home to roost.
And then the next slide, we do, in agreement with RTD, provide this long-range forecast. And this is largely
demographically driven. It takes into account the aging of the population and the slowing overall population
growth as key determinants of what's going to happen in this very long forecast horizon out to 2050. And
so looking at the median forecast, take the last column there, RTD taxable sales, and you can see from the
current-- so these are decadal averages, averages of the annual rates of growth of these different sales
indicators.
And so the current decade then, we're expecting about 6% growth in RTD taxable sales or equivalently
RTD sales tax revenues, going down to 3.8% in the following decade, and down to 2.1%. And so you can
see how that follows the pattern of demographic drag that we're expecting for the nation and for Colorado,
as well, as the population ages and grows more slowly. So I think those are pretty cautious forecasts, but
quite reasonable as driven by the demographic picture for the future.

So next slide, just want to emphasize a few things about the nature of the forecasting. We try to build a
model that is theoretically sound and uses well-accepted economic relations and statistical principles. We
do not incorporate add factors or other sorts of subjective adjustments to the model forecast, but rather use
what the model predicts. We think that's what we are contracted to do. And that would be my preference in
any case.
We don't have a particular point of view with a political basis or financial stake. We try to do the best that
we can. And part of that, as Brian said, is the assistance that we get from the staff providing us with the
data and comments on our forecasts and insights that the staff has about what's going on in the district. So
thanks for your attention, final slide. Just wanted to encourage we're open for questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry about that, technical difficulties. All right, thank you. So we are open now to
comments, questions, interrogations, cross-examinations of our distinguished guests from the CU Leeds
School. Please raise your virtual hand if you have any comments or questions for our presenters. And Mr.
Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to make one comment, just so y'all can remind me later.
Maybe Jack can help us with this. But I would like to get some statistical analysis from the state
demographer's office about population movements within the region. Parallels to this only because of labor
and sales and use, so I'm trying to wrap my head around everything that y'all just said. And there's a lot of
information here, so thank you for it.
Since this is my second time taking a crack at it, I do want to ask a couple of questions with regard to what's
projected for the baseline RTD revenue forecast with respect to the end of the TABOR extension that we
have that ends this year. The numbers look great, But what scares me about what you said is the 2022, '23
year where we see a slow growth. And that obviously has an impact on what happens where the TABOR
base lies.
And I'm not sure who might take this on, if it's Chair Davidson or if it's Mr. McNown or Lewandowski. But
how do we understand on our end, at RTD, how that is going to impact what the revenues look like coming
in next year and what we face in terms of what we may lose. And the question is also caused a little bit by
Director Catlin's notice or comment earlier to me just about what happened in 2008 and how we lost a
bunch of money through the same sort of economic dip that we're experiencing while we try to regain
growth, and understanding that the previous year sets the limitations for all state agencies under our current
TABOR laws. I hope that made some kind of sense.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, we'll see, because I'm going to open the floor now to either Dr. McNown or Mr
Lewandowski or-- and perhaps Doug MacLeod might want to weigh in on this, too. But, gentlemen, any
thoughts from any of you?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ROBERT MCNOWN: Go ahead, Brian.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I'm just going to start by saying, to your first question about demographics, we
actually use the state demographer's forecasts in this report. So you can reference the report and see their
projections included in there. They're cited in there. And I can always help staff pull together those numbers
for you if you want to see it by county within the district.

You can see it by age. You can see it-- the and out migration by county. And there's a lot of interesting data
in there, especially when we take a look at what's happening within the central business district. Doug, I
was going to point to you for the TABOR discussion since we were talking about this when doing our
forecast.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure, thank you, Brian, and thank you for the question, Director Vice Chair Guzman.
So, yes, and I don't want to preempt Chair Davidson's comments on the revenue diversification working
group. But what I will say is, in the month of May, on the working plan, the work plan for the Finance and
Planning committee, we do have scheduled for a discussion item TABOR discussion. That is planned to
discuss what is TABOR, how could it potentially affect RTD.
We do have ongoing discussions with the CU Leeds School of Business regarding potentially incorporating
a TABOR impact into the future forecasts. We had intended to bring that forward with this March forecast.
But because of the work of the revenue diversification working group, we didn't feel that we had enough
mature information to start making recommendations in terms of what that should look like in terms of a
forecast. So in May, we will be discussing TABOR with the Finance and Planning committee. And we also
will be discussing the fiscal policy, begin discussing the fiscal policy for 2025 and how that relates to impacts
from TABOR, revenue, diversification, and the like. So all to say, more to come, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I know it's a little all over the place, and I didn't want to jump ahead where
we are not ready to go. I'm just trying to think through everything that you just said and understand it in the
process of how we get to the budget at the end of the year. So thank you for responding. I did see some of
the demography notes in the packet.
But I just-- it's amazing we have a state demographer that can do all of this. And I don't know if anybody
follows City Cast podcast from Denver, but they just had a really interesting conversation about it just for
the city and county of Denver. But a lot of this information impacts everything that goes into understanding
what happens with sales and use tax, and so there's a lot happening there. That's why it's just a prompt, a
series of questions. All right, I'm done. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Yes, and we are blessed in Colorado to have really a
phenomenal state demographer who has a wealth of information that actually can be communicated clearly
so that people will understand it. So we appreciate that. At this time then, we will turn to Director Broom.
You are recognized, Director.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. I had a question on forecasting use tax. Use tax is primarily the sales tax
on new automobiles and on materials going into new houses. Both of those areas are really suspect right
now. And what are you looking at in terms of what's going to happen to the new housing market? And will
the electric car sales come to a screeching halt here?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Some interesting probing questions. Dr. McNown, you look like you're getting
set up to answer that one.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, I'll try to answer it. That's a pretty challenging question. Use tax is the most
highly volatile series that we have to deal with. And you've pointed out the main sources of use tax. And
you can understand why the use tax collections are so volatile because of the volatility in those industries.
So in the case of building materials in particular, we have to rely on building permits and forecasts of building
permits. We take into account forecasts coming from the national level on building permits, as well as other

Colorado variables that might influence that, what's going on with personal income, for example. And then,
in terms of automobile sales, the volatility is not quite as great, I think, overall.
Of course, there has been some surprises that electrical vehicle sales have not taken off as much as people
might expected, have expected. But instead, the overall level of sales of vehicles, of autos, has, I think,
been pretty stable. And so that's not a major impediment to our generating what we think is a reasonable
forecast.
BOB BROOM: Thanks. With Denver being named Hockey Town USA, will that have an impact on revenue
collections? I think they call that the DU effect.
DOUG TISDALE: [LAUGHS]

ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, there are always a lot of little special factors going on. And up here in Boulder,
we talk about the Coach Prime effect. And actually, in our work for the city of Denver, we couldn't find one.
So I suppose the same for DU.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm hopeful that we've had the Pioneers effect. Maybe we'll have the Nuggets effect here
pretty soon, too. All right, other questions? And I'm sorry, first of all, Director Broom, were you concluded?
Anything else that you had?
BOB BROOM: No, thank you very much, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. Mr. Lewandowski, yes, sir.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I just wanted to respond to Director Broom, as well, and just note that use taxes
is only about 10% of the total sales and use tax collections for RTD. So while it is a difficult and volatile
series, it doesn't drive the forecast. It's more of a margin of error on the forecast.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think, actually, your presentation showed it at about 6% on the numbers that you
had for us in this current projection. All right, other questions or comments from the committee and, for that
matter, any other board member who's present in this meeting, for our guests from CU Leeds School?
Seeing none, I want to thank Dr. McNown, I want to thank Mr. Lewandowski. I want to send greetings to
Dean Wobbekind.
And thank you all very much for your continued excellent work for the RTD. It's been a good 13-year run
so far in terms of working with you all. And your track record has been important. I remember the first time,
what, seven years ago that I heard from you folks. That was one of the questions I asked. And I was
delighted that you provided the substantiation for a very solid track record.
All right, we will close out then that portion of our meeting and say good evening to you all. And we turn
now to the update from the revenue diversification working group. And at this point, I will call upon our board
chair, Erik Davidson, to present an update to this committee on the work of the RDWG.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Mr. MacLeod for touching on a few aspects there.
I'll certainly be open if Mr. MacLeod has any comments to add at the end. The primary focus of the revenue

diversification working group really is twofold at the moment. After the investigation of different revenue
diversification strategies, as I had presented previously, it became abundantly clear that the opportunities
to dramatically influence our revenues and backstopping and protecting those revenues was fairly limited
inside our four walls. And therefore, it became very important to determine how we are going to
communicate our position.
So as I had shared last time, Mr. Stuart Somers has created a website with his team and put the initial
version of that online. That is available under a section about RTD. It is a starting point and is being built
upon. So we did have some discussion around important things to communicate.
And that will continue to be an evergreen process. And as I stated last time, I invite directors to explore that
and provide any feedback. Please feel free to send me feedback on that website, and I'm more than happy
to communicate that back to the team.
But one aspect of the revenue diversification working group is realizing we need to clearly articulate and
communicate our financial position. I think directors have probably seen some of the types of slideware that
have also come together to help level set the community in our position. But the other major area of focus,
of course, is with respect to the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, or TABOR, and how to mitigate the impact of our
forthcoming expiration of the exemption that we have in November 2024.
And as Doug-- as Mr. MacLeod referred to or alluded to, the last discussion was with respect to the precise
impact that we may experience as an agency. I think as directors will recall, we have been using a range
of percentage impact in terms of how much is refunded above the TABOR cap from other government
entities experiencing the loss of their TABOR exemption. And that number was ranging between 7 and
11%. However, running the calculations from a sales and use tax perspective is a little bit more complex.
And there's not really a direct analog to RTD and the state right now for us to be able to easily look at. So
as Mr. MacLeod alluded to, staff, under Mr. MacLeod's direction, is working with the CU Leeds School of
Business and working together with other government agencies to continue to solicit feedback and input to
help quantify the impact, which will, as mentioned earlier, inform our future discussions and any
considerations of fiscal policies we might adopt and, of course, will be weighed in as we consider what this
board decides to do with respect to TABOR. And then, of course, related, we did then discuss the polling,
which, Chair Tisdale, you referenced is coming later this month.
There was some refining to polling questions to improve upon the quality of the feedback that we will
receive. That polling is underway to then bring back to this board. So at this time, it's really looking at that
TABOR mitigation impact, which is now partially looking at the polling and opportunities this board has, as
well as the impact that we are facing to the extent to which we can quantify our forecast that, which, of
course, will always be difficult, and then also, that other piece I started with around how to communicate
our financial position more broadly speaking, in terms of what our immediate challenges are, what our
midterm stability is, and what our long-term challenges look like.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I'll hand back to you. And certainly happy if Mr. MacLeod would want to raise his
hand to contribute anything. But I'll hand back to you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Board Chair. Let me ask Mr. MacLeod if you have anything that
you'd like to offer at this time to supplement the report given to us by Director Davidson relative to the
revenue diversification working group.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think Chair Davidson covered it very well, so I do not have
anything to add. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, then now let me open it up for questions from the Committee to either Chair
Davidson or Mr. MacLeod relative to the work of the revenue diversification working group. And I see
Director Ruscha's hand raised. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I apologize. I have my camera turned off. I'm just-- I'm at
the computer that doesn't have a working camera. But I am present. I wanted to ask Chair Davidson if it
was possible to expand upon some of the questions that we are asking in the poll. As a person who used
to work in polling, our poll is always-- is only going to be as good as the questions that were asking.
And you said there-- you suggested there might have been some changes. Now, I understand if that's not
something you can't you are not able to share at this point. But if you could expand upon that, that's
something I am particularly interested in. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. And as a former psychiatric epidemiologist
who worked at the Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social Research at the University of
Michigan, I, too, am curious about that. So to the extent that you can, Chair Davidson, can you share some
of that with us?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. And thank you, Chair Tisdale. If it's
all right, I would like to take that as a follow up. I know our government relations officer, Michael Davies,
who has been coordinating with our consultant, has had to drop. And we do have some things that we're
working on being able to send out to the full board. So if it's OK, I'd like to take that as something that we
can transmit in the form of a memo to the full board.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's perfectly appropriate. And we'll take that as something on your to-do list.
And we'll look forward to it when you have the opportunity to get that out to all of us.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Other questions for either board Chair Davidson or for Mr. MacLeod concerning the
revenue diversification working group? Director Ruscha, your hand is back up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Well, it wouldn't be a Tuesday if my hand didn't go back up. [LAUGHS]
I actually just wanted to-- I don't know if this is maybe a note or a clarification or a request. But when the
board does take a position or even considers a position, when any language is put before us, certain laws
go into play regarding like the Fair Campaign Practices Act and such. And so I was just wondering if
perhaps, before that happens, just so that we all understand the legalities of that, perhaps counsel might
be able to just issue a brief memo of how that works because there will be some limitations in what we are
able to do if we do decide to move forward and [INAUDIBLE].
Again, general counsel can address this. But there has been cases in which boards were just considering
initial draft language, and that was considered the start date at which position was taken. And so I will-ooh, I see General Counsel Snyder is here, and she has raised her hand. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And yes, it's always a challenging area of the law, one in a
constant state of flux. But we have someone who monitors all of that. And so I will call now upon that person,
our general counsel, Melanie Snyder. The floor is yours.

MELANIE SYNDER: Thank you, Mr Chair, and thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. Your ears
might have been burning. I was just talking with my team. There was a memo that was generated by the
legal team. I think it was back in 2020 before I joined RTD. And we are actually refreshing that and polishing
it. And we do anticipate that will be issued in the next few weeks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that. We will look forward to that eagerly and to ensure that we
all stay in full compliance with the law. Any other comments on the revenue diversification working group?
Hearing none, we'll move on then to our recommended action portion of the agenda.
We have one recommended action on the agenda for this evening. This relates to mobile ticketing and
account-based ticketing contract extension. Say that five times fast. For the Board of Directors to approve
a two-year contract extension with Masabi LLC to continue providing the software and support necessary
for the mobile ticketing and account-based ticketing, sometimes called ABT, fare collection system. May I
have a motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Director Guzman.
DOUG TISDALE: I have the motion by Vice Chair Guzman. Is there a second to the motion? Well, don't all
speak at once.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Catlin is the second on that. So we have at this point, Mr, MacLeod,
our chief financial officer, with us, to be able to present on this contract extension with Masabi. Mr. MacLeod,
sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I'll be very brief. This was a discussion item that was brought to the
Finance and Planning Committee on March 12, so this evening is just the recommended action, no changes
to that discussion item, still a not to exceed two-year contract estimated amount of $6,874,500, which
includes processing fees by credit card companies, approximately $3 million, and then the back end support
of this system. And a large majority of our customers actually use this system. It's not just mobile ticketing.
It's also eco pass and college pass customers, so a very critical portion of our fare infrastructure and critical
to the agency. So I would recommend that we continue with Masabi for the next two years. And am joined
by our senior manager of revenue, Monika Treipl-Harnke, in case there are any specific questions that the
committee members may have. So thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. And to reiterate what we discussed last time when this was a
discussion item, our finance department and staff have told us that Masabi has performed very well under
this contract, which is the reason that they are recommending to us that we extend this contract pursuant
to the terms contained in the contract. And with that as a prologue, I'll ask, are there any questions or
comments from any committee member relative to the recommended action to extend the Masabi contract?
And I'll go to Director Catlin in the first instance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Either Monika or Doug, what would be the consequences if this
contract were not extended? In other words, what would be the cost of trying to get someone else on board?
What would be the delay or some of the ramifications to our business if this were not to be extended? Thank
you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair. That's always an excellent question to ask so
that we understand what would we face if we were to turn this down or take no action. So, Mr. MacLeod,
let me begin with you, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And that's a great question because the current contract expires
in June of this year. If we did not have that system, we would essentially rely on paper products, the vast
majority-- well, actually, I think, all of our electronic fares are processed through Masabi, with the exception
of some of the electronic payments that happen through ticket vending machines, et cetera. But the vast
majority of our fares are supported by the system. If we did not have this system, not only would it prevent
our current customers from continuing to use eco passes, college passes that have already been paid for,
but it would also affect customers that have mobile ticketing and have already purchased fares in advance
and put into their wallets to spend at a later time. So it would cause a huge administrative issue, certainly
a huge customer service issue.
Where we intend to go forward with this is, since we just implemented several changes to the fare system
in 2024 simplifying and reducing our fares, where we would like to go is to spend this next intervening two
years to work on an overall revenue system strategy to be brought to the board that can continue to set us
up for success in the future with changing technologies, et cetera, and try to continue to draw a lot of these
different technologies into a single system for reporting and analysis purposes. That two-year period is
really intended to provide approximately six months to a year to really evaluate that strategy going forward
and also to go out to a procurement process for-- a competitive procurement process for replacement, not
necessarily a replacement for Masabi, but just the process we must go through on a regular basis with
current contracts expiring.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair, thank you-DOUG TISDALE: I was going to ask you if you needed anything further, so please proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I guess you answered my question. I was very concerned about what
that would do to our customer service. And I think you definitely answered my question. But also, the fact
that we are going to go out again for competitive procurement for a comprehensive system answered the
second part of my question, so thank you for that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And those are two points to highlight during this discussion so that we
understand the importance of this contract extension. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I also want to thank Mr. MacLeod for answering some of the questions
that we had previously when this was first presented. And I've had some time to think about it. And I just
wanted to note that, under legislation passed in the last couple of years, which yours truly also worked on,
[LAUGHS] as well as Director Lewis, we are required as a government entity in Colorado to ensure that all
of our digital communications are [INAUDIBLE] compliant. And when I did a little bit of research, I wasn't
entirely sure if this vendor, well, meeting some federal standards, would meet our state standard.
And so I just kind of want to flag that. And maybe we could followup offline. And then I also just had a
question. By proving this vote, is there any room for any contract amendments or what we might also call
a change order if we wanted to add any additional functions or benefits-- what am I trying to say? [LAUGHS]- to the app? I've used it. I like it. I think there are maybe a few more things that we could do because, as I
noted it previously in committee, I want to make it as easy as possible for people to buy a ticket.

And I was just wondering, as a matter of how our bylaws and procurement work and the delegation of
authority, is there enough room in this authorization for some flexibility? Or would it need to come back to
this committee? Or do we think that changes enough are minor that it would fall under the delegation of
authority and be well below that limit? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director, and interesting and perhaps loaded question. The response that I
will give you first, and then let Mr. MacLeod weigh in on this, in part, understand, in terms of further
enhancements and improvements, bells and whistles, if you will, to the system overall, that's part of what's
going to be under study over the next two years as we do this extension and look at doing a new system.
So much of that will be addressed there. In terms of amendments to this contract, that would have to go
through the ordinary course and is not something that, ordinarily, we would expect, having let a contract for
these services, that we'd want to come back with a series of change orders.
That's a slippery slope. But I believe that much of what you ask about is what is in the finance department's
plan going forward in the future. Now, Mr. MacLeod, I've probably misspoken on at least three points, so I'll
give you a chance to correct me.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. No, you hit the nail on the head. And essentially, any substantial fare
changes-- I'm not an expert in the civil rights requirements. However, any substantial changes, including
changes to our system, require an equity analysis, et cetera. And for things-- so I'm trying to remember in
the past some of the enhancements we've made, such as adding fare capping to our system. That was a
really well received customer benefit.
Those discussions we always bring to the board because it's really important for us to communicate those
items. And I'm not necessarily sure those rise to the level of a contract amendment. But we actually have
no plans in place to make any additional significant enhancements.
I think there might be some tweaks around the edges that we might want to address having concluded the
fare study and equity analysis and putting things in place. And I think those mainly around things like
reporting and some information that we get to manage the system on the back end. But Mr. Chair, if OK,
I'd like to ask Monika Treipl-Harnke to give some input on that too.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I saw her hand go up, and I was about to recognize her next
because I figured she had something to add to the conversation. So, Ms. Monika Treipl-Harnke, you are
recognized.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Thank you, Mr Chair. So, yes, we'll do-- the Masabi system is software-as-aservice. So there is some improvements, like any other software that can be used through license that are
just ongoing that the vendor adds. There's also some-- we're going to look with them at existing functionality
or modules or options that we could use. And it depends. Some of these items are included in the software.
And others, there would have to be some payments.
But generally, it is what it is as a software-as-a-service. And we can decide what we want to use and we'll
have to determine what tweaks do we want to make and what costs would be involved. But yeah, we're not
going to do anything significant under this-- significant. We are not planning on any large changes to this
contract that would be in-- under this contract. That would be in that next phase. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha, your hand is still raised, so I take it you have a
follow up to that.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, Mr. Chair, thank you. And then this will be my final comment. So I occasionally
get feedback from our blind community that parts of our website are not accessible. And I am able to very
quickly reach out to the right person, and we can make those corrections.
We, again, are required to be fully compliant with state law with a policy in place by July 1 of this year. And
there are just-- there are some parts of our board packet that are still not accessible to members of our
blind community. And that's something that I think the Board Office can handle. So I just-- and that's why I
just brought up this.
Being a seeing person, I'm not-- it wouldn't be obvious to me if some of our software or parts of our website
are not compliant. As a person who's worked on web design, I might be able to catch a few red flags. So
with that, I would just ask, has this been tested with-- have we received feedback from our blind customers
regarding this app? Has this been tested? Is that part of the equity analysis?
I just want to make sure that if it turns out there were some bugs to be addressed, that we can, in fact, do
that. But that was the reasoning behind my question. And if we need to followup offline, I completely
understand. But thank you, Mr. Chair, for allowing me a few more bites at the apple. I promise that was the
last one.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. I appreciate that in more ways than one. But I will point out that the
question is a legitimate one, just to have a confirmation from staff that there has been compliance checking
on the software-as-a-service, the Masabi contract, to address these issues. And so, Mr. MacLeod, I ask
you to provide that confirmation, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: I'm pretty sure the answer is yes. But I would like to ask Monika Treipl-Harnke to weigh
in on that as well.
DOUG TISDALE: And Ms. Treipl-Harnke, you're recognized.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. But we always work with our accessibility manager,
ADA manager. However, this has been implemented a while. This is not a new software to us, so I don't-I was not part of testing for that particular aspect. I've always been historically involved more in the fares,
fare calculations.
So I will find out. And certainly, the requirement is always to be compliant with the federal regulations. Now,
we'll have to look into the-- you know, see, see if anyone has done a gap analysis for the Colorado
legislation. So we'll have to get back to you on that one.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And you just said the eight magic words that respond to so many
things in life and law and elsewhere-- let me get back to you on that. So we appreciate that. Before I go to
Vice Chair-- and Dr. Lewis, thank you for your patience, but I've got to go to the committee members first.
I see general counsel's hand is raised, and so I acknowledge general counsel at this time.
MELANIE SYNDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I'll go back through the emails, but this analysis was done
back in April of 2023. And I believe it was provided to the board. I can't put my hands on that actual memo
that went out. But we will definitely locate that and get it circulated to you all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your being on top of that. That's terrific.
MELANIE SYNDER: You're welcome.

DOUG TISDALE: Before going to director-- I'm sorry, was there something else?
MELANIE SYNDER: No, I just said you're welcome, Mr Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Before going back to-- I'm so unused to hearing that, I just went charging ahead.
Before going to Director Lewis, Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just wanted to ask one quick question. When did we begin using Masabi as a service
with RTD? Was it 2016?
DOUG TISDALE: So the question is to Mr. MacLeod. Do when our original relationship with them began
and the contract was entered into? That rings a bell in my mind because I remember looking at this contract
when I first got on the board. Mr. MacLeod, you are on mute, so your sage observations are not being heard
by us.
DOUG MACLEOD: [LAUGHS] That's probably a good thing because I was going to defer to Monika again
for the exact dates. I know we've had them for a while and implemented different things, such as mobile
ticketing. But I think Monika knows the history pretty well in that. So Monika, if you could help me out with
that, that'd be great.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Treipl-Harnke.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, so the mobile-- we did mobile ticketing only on this
just right platform by Masabi for a long time. And we started this at the end of 2017 with the first mobile
tickets. So that's-- I don't remember when the initial contract was signed. But I would assume it was early
2017 probably.
And then we added the functionality for account-based ticketing. I think that's in the Board packet. October
2020 was the board approval for that. That was a very large amendment. And we implemented the first part
for retail customers in July 2000. And It was in August right after we went came back from Zero Fare for
Better Air. Sorry. But it was basically in the summer of 2022, right after the Zero Fare for Better Air and that
year ended.
We started with the new-- also called it MyRide stored value. And then the past programs, eco, college,
neighborhood eco, they were-- the cards were immediately usable on the new system. But really, the
transition for our institutional customers to be able to manage all these, all these accounts, the riders, and
also the new tokens, the new mobile barcodes or the brand new MyRide card, that was really something
that happened over the second half of last year. So it's been a journey, but it's been a while. But again,
mobile ticketing was the longest stretch. And we still have the mobile ticketing. We just-- we just. I shouldn't
say just. But we added the account-based functionalities.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. So it did come in some time back in 2017 when I recall first hearing
about this contract. Vice Chair, did that respond to your question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, just want to make one comment. The reason I ask that is because I think both
RTD and Masabi won an award because of our collaborative work together. And having a longstanding
relationship with this particular vendor has allowed us to let them grow with us as we continue to forge
forward with a mobile application service. I think that's really important because they understand how RTD
works.

To director Catlin's point, changing this right now would be quite a difficult process and a challenge for
everybody. But also, they have been and proven to be a leader and a great partner within the transit agency.
So when we get there, I will be moving this forward out of committee with my vote, if possible. Thanks.
That's all I've got.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. I think the bandwagon is getting pretty full right
now, so that's good. Director Lewis, thank you for being so patient. You are recognized.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr Chair. I just have two quick questions and one comment. I'll start with the
comment. Perhaps, Doug MacLeod, we could talk to our ADA coordinator and possibly have a poll of our
ACPD and APAC members to get a sense of how Masabi is working for them. I'm pretty sure we're meeting
federal and state standards.
But I'm pretty sure Masabi wants to be the best they can. And if there are any hiccups or anything that
needs to be improved, I'm pretty sure they would jump on that. So the first two-- the two questions I do
have-- and they're pretty quick-- can we determine what our riders pay in bank fees every time they swipe
their card? Is it like a penny, two pennies? Can anybody give me an idea?
DOUG TISDALE: And Ms. Treipl-Harnke, why don't you take a shot at responding to that.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, they don't. We do. Just like in any retail
transactions, the riders or the customers don't pay. The vendor does.
JAIME LEWIS: The second question-- if the bank increases fees during this two-year period, are we able
to negotiate that, or do you have to eat those costs?
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Treipl-Harnke, do you have a response to that, or does Mr. MacLeod?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: I do have a response, thank you. Well, we basically-- OK, so the processing
is through Masabi. It's through Masabi's bank. So they pass all the-- pass everything through us at cost or
slightly below cost for the payment processing. We could, at that point, try to renegotiate with Masabi.
Chances are probably not very high, just because we've looked at the fees because we also use our own
merchant bank for other credit card processing, for example, TVMs, and the fees were very comparable.
So we felt at the time it was OK to process through Masabi, have the PCI compliance issues-- or not issues,
but be responsible for that. So we'll just-- we would have to see if there's any significant increases. But
chances are that our own bank would probably do the same. And we could technically switch processing
from their bank to ours. That would probably take a while. But that would be an option we could consider
at the time if it's a bad deal, basically.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you for those responses. Thank you, Mr. Director.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Lewis. I appreciate that. And Mr. MacLeod, you wanted to
supplement that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, I would like to add a little bit. Monika hit all the valid points. Director
Lewis, I think that's a great suggestion with APAC and doing a poll. And we'll definitely take that away. One
thing I was going to mention regarding the fees is the largest portion of the fees are charged by the card
issuer, so Visa, MasterCard, et cetera. And those fees, they're usually a percentage of the transaction.

So there's usually a percentage of the transaction, then there's a fixed fee also, a fixed minimum fee. So
the combination of those two is applied to each transaction. And the percentage can vary widely. So on a
card that may be a cashback card or some kind of reward card that the customer holds, those fees are
typically higher because some of that payment reverts to the customer at some point through rewards, et
cetera. So it seems to range from, I would say, approximately 2% to 3 and 1/2% depending on the type of
card used, generally speaking.
One interesting thing I thought might be a good supplemental discussion is APTA was looking to possibly
approach the US Congress to consider what's done in California. So for small transactions, there's a law in
California that smaller transactions have a fixed rate. So you can imagine, if you go to a vending machine
and buy a $1 can of soda pop, a 3% fee on that is a lot bigger chunk of money in comparison to the-- plus
the fixed fee is a lot bigger chunk of money of that purchase than it would be to a large purchase of
something else with a credit card because of that fixed fee.
So in California, they have actually mandated that card issuers can only charge a certain amount for these
low transaction fee, or low value transactions. So APTA was really interested in that and how it might apply
towards transit agencies because the typical individual purchase of a fare is usually only a few dollars. And
so it can typically be a pretty good chunk of that money that goes from the transit agency back to the card
issuer. So there's been a lot of discussion on that and how it might benefit transit agencies and what can
be done about that to try to control that portion of the costs. So thank you, Mr. Chair, for the ability or the
chance to add to Monika's comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and thank you for supplementing with that information because it's good to know
that the issue is being addressed, and that APTA, the American Public Transportation Association, is part
of that examination and advocacy, and that we are in touch with that and following that progress. So thank
you for that, sir.
Are there any other comments, questions, relative to the recommended action for the Masabi contract
extension? Hearing none, we'll conclude the discussion. And I'll now call for the vote. And I will ask-- before
I do that, I need to note, Director Bobby Dishell, a member of the committee, has joined us and is present
for this discussion. So I just wanted Director Dishell to know that we know he's there, babysitting and all.
And I'd like to ask, at this point, are there any no votes on this recommended action? Hearing none, the
motion, as made by Vice chair Guzman and seconded by Board Second Vice Chair Catlin, is approved by
seven aye votes. There are no negative votes, and there are no abstentions. And so the motion passes
unanimously. Thank you very much.
We then turn to the portion of our agenda that is called discussion items. There is one discussion item on
the agenda for tonight. And it relates to something we talked about in our work plan. And that's budget
reporting content enhancements.
You will recall, this is what I have sometimes referred to as the Goldilocks issue, that formerly we had
budgets that were extremely long, detailed, involved. The board said, hey, can we trim this down? Then it
got way, way, way trimmed down. So we went from too much to too little. And now we're kind of looking for
what's the Goldilocks level that will be just right.
So I'm going to, again, call upon our chief financial officer, Doug MacLeod, to present this item on budget
reporting content enhancements. Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And yes, that was a great opening. I do have a slide
presentation to go through to begin the conversation about some of the proposed enhancements based on
the feedback that we've heard from board members and others after having gone through the 2024 budget
approval process in October and November of 2023. So I'll go through a timeline as well.
But this is intended to begin the discussion, get everybody thinking about what they would like to see, so
we can get feedback as staff, so when we get to that point in the process where we're actually discussing
the budget and the budget numbers, as well as coming with a recommended action, we've met the needs
of everybody in terms of providing correct information, understanding that we want to keep that balance,
too, in what we publish for the public consumption, that it's easily understandable, usable, possibly more
graphics than spreadsheets and the like. So that would be our intent. So thank you, Mr. Chair. And I will
begin the presentation. And Mr. Chair, can you confirm that you can see this presentation?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir, I can. It's not in slide mode. There you go. Now it's in slide mode, and I can see
it. Thank you, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great, thank you. So probably ten or so slides this evening, and what I'd like to cover
is just a level setting on what the current budget process and the current budget reporting is, secondly,
what potential enhancements we're thinking of doing as staff for the committee as well as the public, and
then listing-- I'll finish up with a listing of next steps and what that would look like for the remainder of this
fiscal year.
So our current budget process, the purpose, really, of a budget is to have the governing body approve an
appropriation that's recommended by staff to be used over our fiscal year. For RTD, our fiscal year is
January to December. Within that appropriation process-- and I'll talk a little bit more about this later-- it's
very detailed the way we build up our budget. You can imagine there's several departments.
And within, there are several cost centers, et cetera. So it's a long, very involved process, and we have lots
of detail. Part of the reason for that is not just to help manage individual business units, but also to obtain- or to have in place budgetary control. So all of our budgeting and our financial system record for actuals
is done through Oracle. So if you were to look inside Oracle, you'll see a lot of detail in there.
And the reasoning for that is to have budgetary controls that only what's appropriated by the board for the
specific purposes that they were appropriated may be spent. And that's why we come back to the board
occasionally asking for a budget transfer that meets certain criteria or additional appropriations because
we follow the appropriation that was agreed to at the beginning of the year. And any deviations from that
meet a certain threshold need to be brought back to the board for a recommended action.
So as we develop the budget, there's a lot of cross-departmental coordination that goes on. We're actually
enhancing that as part of our back to basics strategic initiative to not wait until so long until the end of the
year to really get this conversation going. So we've actually already had several departmental budget
meetings that will continue. Then we'll have larger quarterly meetings internally to discuss this detail.
So there's a lot more of the collaboration under the guise of one RTD. We put together detail operating as
well as capital budgets. And I'll talk a little bit more about the capital budgets and the enhancements we
intend to make there. I mentioned cost center level. So cost centers are how we categorize transactions.
So myself as the CFO, I have my own cost center. And below me within my department, there's several
other cost centers for things like accounts payable, payroll, et cetera. So essentially, each one of those cost

centers, the way we gather that information, we can run a financial statement for every cost center within
the agency, which allows me as a manager, as well as the other managers, to manage to our budgets.
So we do have a lot of detail. We don't publish all of that because it's just too much information. But again,
that would be something that we'd be happy to discuss with anybody who would like to see the detail at any
point in time.
Our capital budgets are prepared by project number within Oracle. If an appropriation is made by the board
for a specific capital project, it's assigned a project number. That budget is applied to that project number.
And then it's tracked all the way through the life of that project to where we cannot exceed. And the project
expenditures have to meet the intent of that appropriation.
Capital projects, we've really worked a lot over the last couple of years aligning with our strategic plan, as
well as continuing to work on our transit asset management plan. So we have $9.3 billion in assets. As you
can imagine, that's a massive effort in terms of gathering all that information, as well as maintaining it, in
terms of evaluating the state of good repair of each one of those individual assets.
And then what generally you see as board members is budgetary reports at more of a summary level. And
that's the Goldilocks scenario that we're trying to get to. We have all this detail that we can certainly provide
and discuss with anybody. However, for public consumption, as well as evaluation, at a high level, it makes
a lot more sense to do it at a more summary level. It's just a discussion as to what level that summary is at.
Just a few more things about the current budget process, so we often have referred to the midterm financial
plan, which was a six-year forecast beyond the current budget year. That's done for planning purposes.
And that usually precedes-- well, every year, it precedes the development of the budget because. What we
want to ensure as an agency is to ensure that whatever we're recommending to the board as a budget
appropriation for one year, that we're fiscally sustainable for the remaining years because we tend to have
large expenditures in some years for replacing buses, infrastructure, things like that.
We need to look out over a longer period to make sure that what we're currently asking for is sustainable.
So as part of that, we are changing the terminology from the midterm financial plan that was approved by
the board in 2023 to a five-year financial forecast in 2024 for the period going forward. That will come-- I'll
talk about the schedule for that later. But that fiscal sustainability outlook is really the basis for which we
develop the next year's budget. So it has to be fiscally sustainable.
September, October, historically, has been when we began begun the budget discussions with the Finance
Planning Committee as well as the board. And that begins the discussion. Then, by state statute, RTD must
post for public consumption and comment a draft budget by October 15 of each year. Then in November,
we historically have come back to the board and asked-- or recommended what that budget should be
based on additional information, any feedback we've received, et cetera.
Then January 1, the beginning of our fiscal year, that budget would be in effect, assuming that the board
has approved and appropriated that budget. And then throughout the year, we constantly monitor all the
way down to not just the department level, but to the cost center level, how we are performing in regard to
operating expenses versus budget as well as our capital expenditures. And we provide that information
within the board briefings.
The monthly financial statements and the board briefings include both an actual expenditure column and a
budgetary column to compare to, and then a variant. So you can see at any given month where we stand

financially. By the way, I'll be giving a mid-year financial update, I believe, in June, potentially May-- I think
it's June-- to this committee to just to point out some of those financial facts.
So just a couple more items-- I won't hit on all of these-- financial records that we keep are at a very, very
detailed level. So every transaction we can pull transaction information. We actually post that on our
website. So you could go look at the accounts payable register within the financial website, financial page
of the RTD website and see every transaction that occurred in every month for the last three years.
So we keep lots of detailed information and present that in different formats. But one of the intents of this
discussion is how best to present that information and make it available, make it visible and transparent, so
you don't have to know to go dig through specific reports and know where to find them. So we're working
on that through a dashboard process, which I'll mention here in a few minutes too.
The current content of the information that we provide is very similar to many other agencies. So when we
came to the summarized report from that very detailed report, we really did a lot of research in developing
the contents of that report, understanding that it's not meeting the needs. But it's really-- if you were to go
look at Jefferson County, for instance, our budget report is very similar to theirs.
So the main contents of that budget report currently is a board report with the resolutions and presentation
materials that we bring to the board, both in the discussion as well as the recommended action. We also
include a proposed budget report. That budget report includes a letter from the general manager as well as
narratives, comparative cash flows, and some supporting information, at that summary level, so the user
can really understand from a high-level perspective, where does RTD's money get spent and what are we
asking for to be spent in the future.
We also provide supporting schedules. And I'll refer to these later. This is where we'll want to do some
enhancements, potentially. These supporting schedules are our Schedule A, B, and C. So when we present
the draft budget in October for public consumption, when we come back with a recommended budget, we
shown in Schedule A what changed between the draft budget and the current budget as part of that
discussion.
Schedule B is new capital expenditure requests, any new items not previously appropriated by the board.
We would come to the board with this request to appropriate funding for those new capital assets. And then
the big one is the capital carryforward from prior fiscal year. So many of these projects, capital projects, are
either long-term construction projects, or they have a long lead time.
For every purchase that RTD makes, we need to have the funding upfront appropriated and identified. It's
got to be appropriated by the board. By state statute, it has to be identified prior to entering a contract. So
when I talk about budgetary controls, when we load the budget that's approved by the board into Oracle-it's already loaded in there, but we actually have to make it active once it's approved. Those budgetary
controls prevent anybody from spending any more money than it's actually there.
So when a purchase requisition for a new procurement is initiated, that budgetary funding has to be
available in Oracle for that particular line item, or it will not be processed. So before our contracts and
procurement department can even go out and solicit a bid for work, the funding has to be appropriated and
in place within the system before that purchase requisition goes through the system, creates a purchase
order, and then a contracting procurement activity happens. So capital carryforward is really just projects
that haven't been finished. And we ask the board, there's this remaining funding on each of these projects,

we'd like you to appropriate it and carry it into next year so we can continue and finish each one of these
items.
So now I'll move into some of the enhancements that staff would like to do based on the feedback that
we've gotten from committee and Board members as well as others. Some of those enhancements really
revolve around making sure that they're in alignment when we develop the budget with strategic priorities
and initiatives and describing how those are related within the budget documents. We also want to provide
more information with the Transit Asset Management Plan.
So when we talk about the TAM Plan, that's essentially the Schedule B and C, which is new capital and
capital carryforward, which describes the assets and the projects that those assets roll up into of which
we're trying to accomplish and which we'd like an appropriation for. We've also looked at Government
Finance Officers Association, the GFOA, best practices. We've been working with Ruben Brown, our
internal auditors, having them take a second look at some of those best practices and work with staff to
include some of those best practices in the report that you and the public will see. And of course, public
input and research on other governmental entity reporting, too, would help guide the enhancements that
we intend to put in place for this upcoming budget process.
But what do we intend to accomplish with some of these enhancements? Certainly, an increased
transparency. So our general managers is often referred to that we're data rich and information poor. So
when I mentioned our website, we have a lot of information out there, but a lot of it's buried in reports and
not necessarily easily accessible from a knowing-where-to-go standpoint or a digestible type of format. So
we're doing a lot of things internally to try to enhance the ability to understand and find information. And I'll
talk a little bit about our dashboard initiatives.
One of the other things we'd like to do in the budget report is also expand the departmental strategic plan
alignment narrative. So if you were to go back to the last budget report, we do have narratives in there. And
we talk generally about some of the major categories-- salaries, benefits-- and talk about those. In that
respect, we intend to expand that and talk about it more on a departmental basis, how that aligns with our
strategic plan and what the outlook is for each of those items.
We provide a departmental pie chart currently that shows departmental expenditure, expenditures by
department. We will expand that to include a full cash flow. So if you want to go see what bus operations
expense for salaries, wages, benefits, outside services, we'll have that information in there. So it's just an
enhancement to the information being provided.
We also want to expand-- people power is one of our three strategic initiatives that we're really focused on,
and the board has been very involved in some of those discussions. So we'll expand that discussion in the
budget document to talking about where we have vacancies by area, what we intend to hire, et cetera. just
a lot more information about our people power will be included in the budget documents.
And then, one area that we've been working towards as an agency is really trying to enhance our Transit
Asset Management information. We still have a ways to go because of the size of this effort. But that should
guide our future planning in terms of repairs and replacements. So there's still some work to be done on
that.
But as part of that budgetary discussion, we'll enhance a lot of the descriptions of what we're asking for
money for, and also provide information of, here's the universe of assets that we need to be replaced, what
condition they're in, just to be able to provide that on an ongoing basis, both through the dashboard and

the budget reporting process, and also discuss if we run into backlogs of actually being able to repair and
replace things on time. And then finally, additional graphics with trend data, I think that's much more
informative than just providing a table of numbers to communicate where we've been, where we're going,
and why.
So just a little more detail, the supporting schedules, we'd still like to continue to provide those. I think those
are important to have a tracking mechanism for any changes in the different versions of the draft budgets
before we come with a final recommended action for a budget approval. So we'll expand some of the
definitions and descriptions and the justification for each one of those changes that were made from draft
to draft. New capital requests, definitely understand that there's room for improvement on the capital-- the
list of capital items in those schedules. There's a lot more information we could provide that I think would
be super helpful in terms of expanding the project description for each line item, saying what it is, where it
is, as well as anticipated start and completion dates, the funding source description, and a justification for
why are we asking for this particular item to be funded. The same thing for the capital carryforward schedule,
same types of expanded information, I think, would be much more informative for the board to consider
each one of these items in their appropriation.
So wrapping up this presentation, the next steps, you can see here, broken down by month, what that might
look like. So tonight is April 16, so any feedback you want to provide now is great. We also be coming back
in May and June to discuss this further. If you want to take some time to really consider and make some
pointed recommendations that we can take into account, the main meeting, we will be discussing TABOR
and fiscal policy because both of those items dovetail into how we'll be developing the budget for 2025 as
well as the five-year financial forecast. June would be where we'd ask for additional feedback, probably
give some examples of the capital carryforward schedule, what we're thinking that might look like with the
description and start and end dates, those types of things to gather additional input.
And then we're also going to discuss the financial dashboard that's being developed. It's not just financial
dashboard. It's an overall dashboard on the website that Stuart Somers is helping us develop. It includes
information from throughout the agency and really more encapsulated and summarized formats, where you
can go click on the financial portion of the dashboard and go see a graph of here's where RTD's money is
spent, here's where the asset management plan status currently lies. So that's the type of information that
we're really thinking would be very transparent, easy to access, and complement what we're bringing to the
board in terms of content for the budget reports.
Then July would be when we first start discussing the five-year financial plan with the Finance Planning
Committee, come back in September with the recommended action for that five-year forecast. And then,
again, we stay on the same schedule in terms of-- we don't want to come too early with a budget for the
next fiscal year because there's a lot of things that can change if you do it too early. We want to get the
most current information and assumptions in place.
So we'll have these discussions throughout the year leading up to the main draft budget, which will be
presented in October. Then we would come back in November and ask for as a recommended action for
the committee and the board to approve the appropriation for 2025. So, Mr. Chair, that concludes my
presentation. And I'd be happy to answer any questions or receive any feedback at this point.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's most helpful. And I will open up for a full discussion by the
committee regarding their feedback on this. A couple of observations-- note that in the presentation of the
budget in October to this committee and the board, we will have the advantage then of the September CU
Leeds School of Business report relative to revenues. And so, as Mr. MacLeod mentioned, things can

change. You don't want to prepare the budget too soon because that report may give us a different picture
of what things are going on.
Also, what is important to emphasize here, much of the information that you may have asked about in the
past or that you're interested in is actually available to the public on the website. I know there are people-and I know that our board chair, Davidson, will be talking about this tomorrow when addressing the bill
currently before the legislature. One of the sections of that bill provides for enhanced financial reporting.
I submit that all that enhanced financial reporting is, essentially, all being done currently. With that, let me
open the floor to any, first of all, committee members who have comments, questions, reactions, feedback
to Mr. MacLeod's presentation. All right, let me open to the full-- oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice Chair, you are
recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, my mouse wasn't working. Mr. MacLeod, just a bit of feedback for you, as
requested. All of this looks really good. Thank you for the hard work. I think that one of the conversations
we had last year around budget time was definitely a lack of understanding, a one-sheet page and needing
to go through it in more detail, so thank you for that.
What I don't see still is what's left over. Maybe it's compacted into the TAM Plan. I'm not sure. But what
projects are being delayed? And why aren't they moving forward? Or how are we prioritizing? And if that's
part of TAM, great, then it's there. I just didn't see it, or I didn't understand that part.
But what we're working on also needs to be considered and what's being left off of being focused on
immediately so that we can work on other priorities, just so that we have an understanding if we're leaving
some particular part behind in the budgeting process for allocations that need to be set ahead of time, why
we're prioritizing one thing over the other. And the justification piece, obviously, that would go with that. And
so just making sure that is part of that conversation so that, for transparency purposes, when we have folks
ask about why we're doing A instead of B, that we are able to communicate that back to community in an
effective manner. That's all I have. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Mr. MacLeod, your response to that, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, yes, really appreciate that feedback, Director Guzman, and
absolutely think that's a critical component to have a full understanding of the universe of items that need
to be repaired and replaced. And if we're having any delays for whatever reason and why that reason is, if
it's a staffing issue, if it's a supply chain issue, those kinds of things, certainly would be very good information
to provide to this body. And I think once that information or our TAM plan becomes more complete and we
get a lot more information in terms of condition assessments, et cetera, which are ongoing, it'll really help
the agency and the governing body, too, to make some of those determinations and prioritizations as to not
only what needs to be done, but why and why we're doing it when we are. So understood, great suggestion,
appreciate that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just wanted to note that, I think it was last month or the prior
month, where I had requested if we could get the most updated policy or definitions of our funds because,
well, a fund indicates that there are specific rules and guidelines around it. And I did notice, even in our last
budget session, sometimes we-- well, we use synonyms that aren't always synonyms. And it was never
clearly explained to me when I came on board last year what our specific fund rules were.

And so when we think about, where's this coming from in our budget, that, I think, would be critical. Now, I
also understand that we might update the fiscal policy and some of that might change. And so I would just
again ask if we could get something from staff that clearly explains our funds and the policies around them,
including the FISA, including unrestricted. That would be very beneficial before we, I presume, in the future
vote on any changes. One obvious one I think is the unrestricted fund. And I won't go into the history of
that, but that's just one thing that had concerned me last year.
I also just want to make a couple of comments. I really appreciate capital budgets prepared by project
number. And I think one thing that we were missing, or someone like me was missing, in the budget
presentation for the board is, I think, the function and subfunction. And sometimes we say capital project
and when really it might be a capital expenditure for a specific department. And so I just wanted to flag that.
And I hope that that's something that staff is continuing to work on.
As far as the public-facing dashboard, I think this is really excellent. For individuals who are going to vote
on a potentially $1.3 billion budget, there might be some things that we still need to make sure we have
access to information to. And as I have pointed out in previous committees, and I think at our retreat, other
peer agencies that we compare ourselves to do have comprehensive budget books.
And it doesn't mean you have to read every page. But it does mean that if you need something, the citation
and the reference is there. And I think that is-- given the size of our agency and all of the assets that we
have to manage, I think that's an appropriate goal to strive toward. So even if we aren't going to get there
fully this year, I would hope that this body and the board can work with staff to set goals. Just recognizing,
again, we are responsible for an extraordinary amount of money, and we do have a debt service
consideration, and I think that would go very far, both in these budget discussions and I think what is
expected by us, as stated by members of the public and the legislature.
So again, I really want to thank staff for this. And if it were possible, Mr. MacLeod, if you would be willing to
take a meeting with any members who are interested in this process, maybe we could just sit down and
have more granular discussions of what that looks like for feedback, so we don't take up too much of
committee time, just like you were generous enough to offer your time last year when we had questions
about the budget. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for allowing me to speak, and also Mr. MacLeod and
staff for all your work on this. I really appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, some good comments there. I was wondering if,
Mr. MacLeod, you might-- there were a number of things, and I know you were taking notes. But as to the
first item concerning fund balances and rules regarding expenditures from dedicated fund balances, if you
might just take a moment to expand upon that a little bit because I would like the committee to have the
benefit of your take on that at this point. And then we know that the other items will also require further
response at some later time. But if you could take a moment to address that, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, that's a very important point. And I will be sure, certainly,
when we have the financial review, mid-year financial review and further discussions, to make sure I speak
more to the fund balances. But essentially, if I had to summarize, RTD is a single fund. So if you look at
any government agency, take the city and county of Denver, if you look at their financial statements, they
have several funds.
Some are proprietary funds where there's a fee charged, and so they have books for that particular fund.
Other are governmental funds that don't have fees are supported by taxes. So if you look at their financials,
they have all these funds going across that consolidate into a single entity for their full report. RTD is not

like that. We're a single proprietary fund. So we are just one fund for all intents and purposes in terms of
bookkeeping.
When you talk about our fund balances, so fund balances are everything that's left over after you subtract
liabilities from assets. So it's on your balance sheet. It's kind of like your savings account. Within that fund
balance, a certain portion of that is liquid available assets. And the rest is all tied up in fixed assets.
For instance, we can't just-- if we needed money, we can't go out and sell a train car and generate cash to
go use for something else. So we separate out our net investment and capital assets from the remaining
fund balances. So what's left over is we have four main categories. One is the FasTracks internal savings
account. One is the capital replacement fund.
The FISA is used-- was established through board direction in 2013 to start accumulating any excess funds,
which were prescribed for specific items that would go into that fund, the FISA, to fund and build that up,
with the specific explicit intent to use that funding to complete unfinished FasTracks elements. So the board
can, at any time, set up a fund or segregate certain funding for specific purposes. And that's how that one
was developed.
The second one is capital replacement fund. As part of the fiscal policy, we've agreed that we're going to
try to cash fund instead of borrow money when we make large capital purchases. So we built that fund up.
And that continues to be used for our asset management repair and replace activities.
The third one and very important one that's been established for many years, and it's based on a GFOA
best practice. The GFOA, Government Finance Officers Association, recommends that governments keep
two months of operating expenses in reserves to deal with any economic shocks, any other unexpected
items.
RTD is elected through the bot process to actually do it at three months to be conservative because we're
so dependent on sales and use tax. So that fund is kept separate with enough funding to provide expenses
for three months of operating costs. And then finally, everything else that's left over goes into the
unrestricted fund. So I can talk about this in more detail in the future, but that's kind of in a nutshell how our
fund structure is broken down.
And we can certainly adjust that. And I'd like to discuss that as part of the fiscal policy discussion, too,
because we've come up with some ideas and the revenue diversification working group that may be
something the board might want to consider in light of the TABOR impacts that may help with our fiscal
sustainability. So hopefully, that answers that item, Mr. Chair. But I'd be happy to answer anything else.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I appreciate that very much because that was a very, very cogent explanation of that
first element that Director Ruscha raised that I wanted to make sure we got on the record tonight so that
the committee members would have an opportunity to consider that. And of course, as to all of these things,
this is not the end of the discussion. This is the beginning of a discussion that will continue to carry on with
much more to follow. Director Ruscha, we'll go to you for your final comment of the evening.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't know if that was a polite request or a comment. [LAUGHS] But yes, final
comment of the evening. I just also wanted to provide some clarification if needed. So when-- so I
understand that the FISA is, essentially, an earmark. But what I had asked for previously is, could we have
all of the board approved policies related to the FISA, like so we had something of a library.

And I think that's very important, particularly considering some of what I think people's misunderstandings
are of the FISA and what it can and cannot do or what it's for. And then when I referenced-- I think I said
the unrestricted fund. My understanding is, several years ago, it was either-- I don't know if it was an initiative
or official board policy, that we expected that to be spent down or be a much lower number at what it is
now. And that's changed.
And so sometimes we say capital reserves and sometimes we say replacement fund. And reserves can be
more than one thing if there isn't a definition. And so that's where I was suggesting that, both in our next
budget book but prior to fiscal policy change conversations, in fact, as soon as practicable, if we could get
just some of this on paper. And again, if you would be willing to meet with me, I would love to just come in.
Or perhaps even we could do, time permitting when you're available, just another budget training on some
of these more granular issues. I think that would help make the budget-- well, for the board, it might be a
budget season. For you, it's all year long. [LAUGHS]-- just run a little bit smoother. So I just want to provide
some clarification. But thank you so much for that. And I will yield for the rest of the evening. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And it was not intended to be a shutdown, Director, I assure you.
But no, I do appreciate that. Mr. MacLeod, any closing thoughts on that based upon Director Ruscha's
comments?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just one thing I would add, too-- so the reason I was able to rattle
off the contents of the fund balance so easily this evening is because I've been having ongoing discussions
with the Office of the State Auditor. In fact, we spoke earlier today about the fund balances because they're
taking a close look at that, too, and how we include those and describe those in our fiscal policy. So yes,
that will be something that we will enhance, too, in terms of the descriptions and what the purpose of those
funds are within our fiscal policy or however they're going to actually have some findings and some
recommendations from this financial performance audit from the OSA that will result at the end of-- they're
supposed to finalize their report by the end of July.
So this is all great timing in terms of having all this input from internal auditors, state auditors, and the like.
So yes, we intend to have a great product. And I'd be happy to meet with you at any time that's convenient.
So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's not surprising. We knew that the OSA, the Office of State
Auditor, was doing some of this work with you. And it is nicely timed in terms of working with us to provide
this committee, and ultimately the full board, with that information. Further comments, questions from any
committee member or from any director in this meeting?
All right, well, I would say we had a very, very productive discussion relative to some of the budget-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Broom has a-DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom, I see your hand is now raised.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I have one question. Typically, when a district takes over another district- and this goes back to what we've been discussing this evening-- you have to set aside funds to pay off all
the outstanding debt. So my question is, does that also apply if the state of Colorado, which apparently is
trying to take over RTD, would they have to issue bonds in order to escrow the funds to pay off all of the
obligations of RTD?

DOUG TISDALE: Who knew we would get a fascinating legal question at the end of the evening here from
Director Broom. And I know we have no right to call upon General Counsel Snyder to issue a curbstone
opinion relative to that particular issue. But to the extent that you can address the concern raised, which is
perhaps more than just rhetorical, General Counsel, do you have any thoughts to share with us?
MELANIE SYNDER: No, thank you, Mr. Chair, I don't at this time. I do think that given the conversation
tonight and what we anticipate for tomorrow with potential amendments that may be happening, it's certainly
something we can revisit.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. Thank you very much. Once again, we're back to those eight magic
words-- let me get back to you on that. All right, so Director Broom, does that satisfy your curiosity at this
point?
BOB BROOM: It does. It's just I don't recall us discussing it it up to this point in time.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct, I think that is absolutely correct because we haven't faced these circumstances
up until this point in time. All right, that concludes our discussion then on the one discussion item we had
on the agenda this evening. Are there any other matters that any committee member wishes to bring forward
at this time to the Finance and Planning Committee? Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I got a quick one. It's good news. Since us unprofessional board members, as we've
been accused of being, don't work with our local, state, and federal government, I received a very cool
message from Senator Hickenlooper's office that we were awarded a $2 million funding for the South
Federal Transit-Oriented Development Study to be done in the South end of my district and through the
central part of Director Dishell's district. And I wanted to share that with you, after confirmation from his
office, that it certainly has been awarded, and just end on a high note that we're actually doing director
work. And it feels so nice to be back here doing this instead of running around all over the place trying to
figure out who's writing what and saying what. So thank you for that.
DOUG TISDALE: That is great, good news to share. And thank you for being the messenger on that one,
much appreciated. Other matters from any committee member or from any other director on the board that
pertain to the Finance and Planning Committee? Seeing none, we'll close out the discussion of other
matters.
And I will advise you that the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday,
May the 14th, at 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time, once again, to be conducted on Zoom. At that meeting,
pursuant to our work plan, I can advise you that the committee is likely to hold discussions on the following
items-- first, Zero Fare for Youth Title VI equity analysis.
You will recall that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 requires equity analysis for fare changes. That is
something that the Zero Fare for Youth obviously effectuates. And therefore, we'll have a discussion
concerning that equity analysis at that time.
The second thing that we anticipate presenting will be a discussion on the Central Park Station Transit
Oriented Development, the Central Park TOD. And then thirdly, as has been mentioned here several times,
we'll be discussing the 2025 fiscal policy. That tells you what we're planning for May 14.
But in the meanwhile, I can tell you that we have accomplished what we planned for April 16. And seeing
no other discussion, I'm pleased to advise you that this meeting is adjourned as of 7:44 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. Thank you all very much. Have a most pleasant evening.

