Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, February 13, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Ken Mihalik

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Mihalik called the meeting to order at 6:16 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:16 PM
6:16 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:16 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present

6:10 PM
6:10 PM
6:14 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:13 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Chair

Present

6:10 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:13 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:16 PM
6:14 PM
6:16 PM
6:12 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Absent

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Joe Christie, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Raleigh
Elstun, Michael Ford, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, David Genova,
Robbie Hunter, Pamela Kachka, Doug McLeod, Brian Matthews, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Daniel
Menter, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Corey
Petzinger, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Karl
Shoemaker, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn

Others Present:

Shelly Cook, William Gross, Anne Herzenberg, Matt Marino, Trent
Ratcliff, Nidhi Saxena, John Thompson, Cheryl Wallace

B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization to enter into a contract with DatamanUSA
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract to DatamanUSA for
ERP Work Order Contract (Contract Number 17DH023) for an amount not to
exceed $7,750,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an as-needed,
work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the
budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the February 27,
2018 Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion: Ms. McKillop stated that RTD had worked for the last 11 years
with an outside vendor to assist with enterprise resource planning (ERP)
systems. She said the following five years would be unique because the
agency had approved a major upgrade of its ERP software, which included
Oracle and other applications. She said the DatamanUSA contract allowed
RTD to supplement its resources with outside staff. She stated that the
agency did not have sufficient work force or expertise in house and that it
was not cost effective to house those resources internally. She said that,
because the contract was non-project specific, staff had estimated the costs
on the high side. She noted the previous five-year contract allowed
expenditures up to $10 million, but the agency only spent $2.2 million of
that, and she anticipated the actual cost of the new contract to be less than
full the full cost.
Director Folska, Ph.D., said she was concerned with the language of the
recommended action that said that any work performed “will be in budget”.
She said it was not clear what may or may not be needed and stated that

she would prefer to approve actions on a contract-by-contract basis. She
indicated she would vote no.
Director Lubow said she had the same concern as Director Folska, Ph.D. She
asked whether it would be feasible to reauthorize the contract after the first
$5 million in expenditures and questioned why staff was asking for such a
large sum.
Ms. McKillop said the recommended action authorized staff to enter into a
master contract, allowing them purchasing authority based on individual
orders. She said the work orders would be based on individual projects. She
stated that, for the Board to authorize purchases item by item, staff would
have to request Board approval on a monthly basis, which could delay
forward progress. She said that the master contract structure was common
for IT and capital programs projects, where staff was granted non-project
specific funding up to a certain amount.
Director Lubow asked whether a change to the recommended action would
necessarily mean that the work orders would have to be approved one at a
time or whether the upper limit of the spending authority in the contract
could instead be set at $4 or $5 million.
Ms. McKillop said she would not recommend changing the action but stated
that doing so was in the Board’s prerogative.
Director Solano said that, coming from IT data background, he saw the
contract as a rainy day fund and said that money should be accessible when
necessary. He said he would be a yes vote.
Director Anderson said she agreed with Director Solano. She said the agency
could be hacked and that even $7 million would not be enough to recover.
She said she would support the recommended action because she felt that
having a contract to cover incidents on nights and weekends, without
having to wait for Board approval, supported RTD’s customers.
Director Walker said he would support the motion, because the budget for a
given project would not be known ahead of time. He said he was familiar
with this type of purchasing structure because of his other work.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Claudia Folska, Judy Lubow
Kate Williams

Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED.

• Code of Ethics Approval
The Finance Administration & Audit Committee recommends that the Board
of Directors approve the attached RTD Code of Ethics.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the February 27, 2018 Board
Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion: Committee Chair Mihalik commented that the Board had
previously heard about the revised code in a recent update item and asked
whether there was anything new to report.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said that Karl Shoemaker, Raleigh Elstun,
and Corey Petzinger, members of the Leadership Academy team who
worked on the code revision, were in attendance, as was their advisor, Pam
Kachka. He said that the team had made the changes recommended during
the last meeting and that they invited any other changes. He noted that an
amendment, which included suggested changes that were not included in
the packet, had been printed and distributed to the Directors. He said the
amendment contained appropriate minor wording changes that would make
policy stronger. He concluded by recommending the Board approve the
recommended action in order to cover all employees, not just procurement
staff.
Motion to
amend:

Chair Tisdale made the motion to amend the
Code of Ethics.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Director Broom asked how long the amendment was.

Mr. Asphaug said the amendment was short, and he offered to read the
changes into the record. He said that, if the committee agreed, the
amendment could also be approved by acclamation.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked for the changes to be read aloud, and Mr.
Asphaug read the amendment in full.
Director Menten, speaking to questions that had been raised the first time
the revised code was presented, asked whether the amended code still
contained provisions that would prevent a situation in which an RTD
employee could improperly participate in the selection of a contractor and
subsequently leave RTD to work for the selected contractor.
Mr. Asphaug said he felt the policy was worded properly to avoid such
situations and gave the agency and the Board the flexibility to deal with
those situations and to help avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Director Menten asked about one of the changes in the amendment that
referenced “reasonable persons”.
Mr. Asphaug said that it was standard practice in codes such as RTD’s Code
of Ethics to have a “reasonable person” standard.
Director Menten asked whether the previous code was focused too
narrowly.
Mr. Asphaug responded that the previous code was written specifically for
procurement employees.
Director Lubow suggested that it would be a good idea to define certain
types of personal interests for the purpose of the code.
Mr. Asphaug said that the code distinguished between remote and direct
interests. He said the point of the distinction was to avoid a situation in
which a person who has a significant stake in the outcome of a procurement
could engage in self-dealing.
Director Anderson asked how RTD would handle a situation in which a
Board Member worked for an RTD supplier.
Mr. Asphaug said that, at a minimum, the Director would have to recuse
himself or herself from voting. He said there were other considerations as
well, such as situations in which a Director had interest in an entity that was
the only possible provider of a service required by RTD.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES:
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker
ABSENT:
Kate Williams
Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion to amend PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair Mihalik declared the main motion, as amended, PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• General Manager Contract Review
Doug MacLeod, Controller, introduced Matt Marino and Cheryl Wallace,
auditors from RubinBrown. He said that the Board required an external
auditor to review the General Manager’s contract and benefits.
Mr. Marino stated that RubinBrown had performed the audit for the last
several years. He stated that the General Manager was in his second full
year of a five-year contract and that 2018 marked his third year. He noted
that, in reviewing the General Manager’s contract, RubinBrown looked at
changes in tax law and reviewed the General Manager’s discretionary
performance payout, which was less in 2017 than the maximum amount
allowed.
Director Menten asked if the Directors would receive a hard copy of the
report and whether the document would be posted online.
Ms. McKillop said that hard copies would be distributed and an electronic
copy would be posted on the RTD website, in the location where audits
were typically posted.
Chair Tisdale equated the audit to a fairness opinion of an investment banker
in that it reviewed the circumstances in the marketplace and determined
whether the General Manager’s contract remained fair according to its
terms.

• 2017 Financial Audit
Mr. Marino said RubinBrown also audits RTD’s finances each year. He said
that, once the audit is completed, staff then presents the audited figures as
the agency’s comprehensive annual financial statement (CAFR). He stated
his firm also performed an audit for the purposes of the agency’s reporting
on grants and expenditures required by the Federal Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133.
Ms. Wallace said that RubinBrown had completed its auditing functions and
had reviewed several processes in place at RTD, including the processing
and transmission of payroll, federal compliance, and other key controls. She
said her firm would continue to perform testing on year-end balances.
Mr. Marino said that his firm was also required to communicate with the
Board as part of the Board’s governance function. He asked whether the
Directors had any further questions.
Director Broom asked how the auditors performed payroll audits.
Mr. Marino said that his firm looked at the system to process payroll to
determine whether the controls were effective. He said they implemented
testing, reviewed sample selections, and performed an analytical review to
ensure that changes, such as cost-of-living adjustments, were being made
appropriately.
Director Broom asked whether the firm checked payroll processing against
the union contract.
Mr. Marino responded that RubinBrown checked to see that payroll
processing was consistent with the contract.
Director Menten asked how the Directors should contact RubinBrown if they
had additional questions.
Mr. Marino said that Directors could contact either Ms. Wallace or him.
Ms. McKillop said that staff could include their contact information in the
Friday report from the General Manager. She said that it was preferable for
Directors to speak with the auditors directly in order to maintain their
independence.

• December 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Mr. MacLeod reviewed the December Monthly Financial Statement. He said
that the dashboard numbers were solid but noted that the documented
expenses could change once all invoices were accrued. He said the key

performance indicators were consistent, though he noted that the sales and
use tax revenues were lower than expected for the month due to an
adjustment in tax filings by a large utility located in Denver. He said the
utility filed the tax returns in Denver rather than in the jurisdiction from
which the taxes were collected. He stated the issue was still being
addressed by the Department of Revenue (DOR). He said it was unlikely for
the corrected tax filings to affect RTD until fiscal year 2018. He noted that
staff had originally assumed a 6.7% year-over-year tax revenue increase but
later revised that figure to 4.0%. He said that the second half of 2017 had
brought in better than expected tax revenues, however, and stated that
actual revenues grew 6.1%, which figure also took into account the loss of
marijuana tax revenues in the second half of 2017. He stated that, in total,
the agency received $12 million more than anticipated on a budget of $586
million. He said ridership was 6.6% under budget projections and nearly 2%
below 2016 levels, though fare revenue was only down 1% due to a shift in
ridership from bus routes to the University of Colorado A Line.
Mr. MacLeod added that staff had included in the packet a graphic depicting
RTD’s ridership figures in comparison to other transit agencies. He said that,
according to the figures compiled by the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA), through September 2017 RTD was down 6.9%, as
compared to a decline of 5% for the entire industry. He said light rail
ridership was up 5%, and commuter rail was up 15.5%, as compared to an
overall rail ridership decline of 0.2% in the industry. He said special services
ridership was up 1.4% vs. 0.3% industry wide. In summary, he said that
overall RTD ridership was down 1.5%, compared to an industry-wide decline
of 3.6% overall. He said the graphic also compared RTD to agencies of
similar size and noted that only a few agencies had experienced flat or
increasing ridership, whereas many other agencies were down compared to
2016.
Director Broom asked whether the utility mentioned in the Monthly Financial
Statement was a natural gas or electric utility. If so, he said the utility would
be a substantial contributor to the tax base.
Mr. MacLeod said that was correct and that the impact to RTD as a result of
the misfiled returns was $5.3 million. He said he was unsure how much of
that amount would be returned to RTD.
Director Broom asked when the filings would be corrected.
Mr. MacLeod responded that staff originally thought the filings would be
completed by December 2017 but said they now hoped the filings would
done by the end of January 2018.

Director Broom stated the taxes collected by the utility were likely within the
RTD District.
Ms. McKillop said that staff had made the same assumption but noted that
DOR could not quantify that yet.
Director Lubow thanked staff for providing the ridership comparison. She
said she had read an article about a transit agency in Seattle, which was one
of the few agencies that had experienced ridership growth in 2017. She said
that agency had worked with city and state employers on a commute trip
reduction program aimed at getting employees out of the one-person-vehicle
mode. She said that the program was yielding great results according to
graph and stated that, despite the national trend of declining ridership, in
individual situations work was being done to buck that trend.
Director Walker said there were several reasons for a decline in ridership
among the different agencies, such as weather, aging infrastructure, and
transportation network companies (TNCs). He noted that the graphic
showed King County Metro Transit (KCMT), as opposed to Sound Transit.
He noted that KCMT was authorized to make improvements that RTD could
not, such as improvements to roads. He added that the graphic did not
explain everything in regards to declines in ridership. He asked whether the
ridership numbers from the graphic took into account new lane miles such as
RTD’s opening of the R Line in 2017.
Mr. MacLeod said the addition of the R Line explained the increase in light
rail ridership.
Director Sisk said he enjoyed graphs and numbers but would not rely too
heavily on them. He noted the example of KCMT and said that the City of
Seattle and the Washington state legislature were not happy with the
agency. He agreed that the agency had done an incredible job but
questioned what the agency had done to get to achieve their successes. He
added that he did not like seeing red numbers in the financial reports and
that it made sense for RTD to look at what other agencies were doing right.
General Manager Genova said that ridership was a national conversation and
that lots of research and analysis was being conducted on the subject. He
noted that he had seen research that indicated that increasing household
vehicle ownership exponentially reduces transit trips. He said the study
showed that annual transit trips were reduced from 229 to 38 when
transitioning from a zero–car to a one-car household and from 38 trips to 10
when adding a second vehicle.

• Quarterly Investment Report
Brendan Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, presented the
investment report from the fourth quarter of 2017. He noted that, as
interest rates go up, bonds go down, which was reflected in RTD’s financial
statements. He said the agency’s investments were in line with benchmarks
and stated the total investment income return for 2017 was over $4.1
million, an overall portfolio increase of 1.5%.
Director Anderson said she appreciated the graphics presented by staff,
which she said she used to visualize trends.
Director Broom asked what happens to the proceeds from individual portfolio
earnings go and asked whether the proceeds are returned to the general
fund or to capital projects.
Mr. Morgan said it depended on the project. He said that unencumbered
funds often remained after the completion of projects and that the fine print
determined what could be done with the money left over. He said that the
best option typically available to the agency was to use the leftover funds to
pay upcoming principle and interest payments, which would then free up
general fund dollars that would have otherwise gone to those payments.
Director Anderson noted that annual budgets are a scientific wild guess. She
offered congratulations to staff for establishing estimates that fell within 1%
of the actual annual sales tax revenues.

D. Next Meeting Date - March 13, 2018
E. Executive Session



Update on plans and preparations for dispute resolution in DTP and RRP claims.
Statutory basis: CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (legal advice), (4) (e) (I) (negotiations).
Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiations. Statutory basis: CRS 24-6-402
(4) (b) (legal advice), (4) (e) (I) (negotiations).
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to proceed
into Executive Session to discuss an update on
plans and preparations for dispute resolution in
DTP and RRP claims, CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b) (legal
advice), (4) (e) (I) (negotiations), and Collective
Bargaining Agreement negotiations, CRS 24-6402 (4) (b) (legal advice), (4) (e) (I)
(negotiations).
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director Sisk asked whether staff members would be present
during the executive session.

Mr. Asphaug responded that certain members of staff would be allowed for
one of the presentations but not the other and that some may be required to
wait outside the boardroom.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker
Kate Williams
Natalie Menten

Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

F. Adjourn
Following the adjournment of the Executive Session, Committee Chair Mihalik
adjourned the meeting at 9:13 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

