1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
July 17, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present. Director Hoy was absent.

III.

SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Chair Kemp indicated we had a special recognition for tonight and introduced former
Director Jack McCroskey as one of the founding members of rail. Chair Kemp stated that
at the time Mr. McCroskey was on the Board, Chair Kemp was a RTD quality control
inspector for rail. He then handed it over to the General Manager who presented Former
Director McCroskey with a clock plaque and invited him to share a few words.
Mr. McCroskey stated he was pleased, gratified and humbled by this recognition. He
introduced his family which consisted of his daughters, granddaughters and greatgranddaughter. He stated these were a beautiful group of women who were happy to
share a piece of their busy lives with him. He is 88 years old so his savory days are
behind him. He has dropped his anchor in a snug harbor which for him is better than a
safe harbor. In a snug harbor, you are comforted and respected as an esteemed member
of the human race. He owes this to the women in his life. He is happy that he has their
affection and loyalty. He is doing fine. He asked the Board how they are doing these
days. If he were to ask how the job is going these days, he has two observations: this is
not the richest or glamorous place to work. The salary rose from a mere $3K to $12K
but is still significantly less than what the Denver City Council makes. There are no
riches and glamor but they have something else that transcends this-they make decisions
and take actions that has influence that reach over a hundred years that others do not
have. The Board members have the opportunity to leave a positive mark on how the
Denver metropolis will work. This is a grand opportunity but filled with an awesome
responsibility to operate in a straightforward, transparent and ethical way. He

congratulated the Board in their selection of Phil Washington as the General Manager and
expressed his confidence in Phil as a man of principle and good morales. He presented
the General Manager with a plaque that had the announcement from July 5, 1992
announcing the start of the light rail. He also gave him a copper hat from that period as a
memento and stated if he keep it on the shelf and rub it from time to time, it might clarify
his thinking. Good luck and so long.
Former Director McCroskey received a standing ovation.
Chair Kemp also recognized Director Kathi Williams who has resigned from the Board
effective July 31, 2012. He stated Director Williams was a strong advocate for her
constituents in District K and he thanked her for her wisdom and insight she brought to
this Board. He shared that Kathi had been a Board member in the 1980’s and was
appointed by the Adams County Commissioners to fill a vacancy in district K.
Director Williams graciously accepted the certificate and thanked the Board and staff.
She stated that she had tried to be a voice for the north metro area and hope to continue
to be.
Special Recognition-International Rail Roadeo Participants
General Manager Washington and Assistant General Manager of Rail, Austin Jenkins,
recognized the RTD employees who had participated in the international rail roadeo.
Austin invited Managers Phil Eberl and Bill Bell to introduce this team of winners
Maintenance team (1st Place)
George Sweeney
Kevin Steele. Austin stated that Kevin was working on his engineering degree and could
not be here tonight to accept his award since he was having finals.
Transportation Team (4th Place)-Operators
George Mattox (retired)
Narciso Garcia
Chair Kemp offered up congratulations to this wonderful set of employees who make RTD
shine. He stated however, that his heart was with the maintenance crew since this is
how he got his start as a mechanic for RTD.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

CU President Bruce Benson referenced a letter that he had sent to the Board last week
providing his support for the I-225 Unsolicited Proposal. He talked about his priority to foster
collaboration and partnership across campuses from the CU in Bolder to the Anschutz campus
in Aurora. Much of this collaborating effort requires face-to-face meetings and reliable and
accessible transportation is critical to the type of collaboration that needs to occur. This
collaboration is within not only Denver but reaches across the state. The completion of the I225 corridor as well as the US 36 managed lanes and BRT are critical enables of this process.
He will support the transportation infrastructure and do what he can to advance the regional
build out of the FasTracks project.

CU Regent Chairman Michael Carrigan stated his support for the I-225 unsolicited
proposal. He stated they currently employ around 25K employees with an anticipated 40K by
2020. The CU Anschutz campus is the largest economic project in the Rocky Mountain West.

He also shared that this site provides critical treatment for children and good transportation is
essential for them and their families. He also favors a robust transportation along the US 36
corridor with a real BRT.

Honorable Mayor Bob Murphy of Lakewood and former Chair of the Metro Mayors
Caucus, teamed up with the current chair for the Metro Mayors Caucus, Honorable Mayor Rich
Pilgrim of Bow Mar, to deliver this message. Mayor Murphy stated that the Metro Mayor’s
Caucus have played a significant collaborative role in helping to define the transportation needs
for this region and are supportive of RTD. Honorable Mayor Pilgrim stated that the Caucus has
not yet met on the I-225 proposal but he wanted to share some words. The 40-member
Mayor caucus supports the need to move forward. They would like to see an allocation of
money to the Northwest and North Metro corridors to provide interim solution while options
are being considered. RTD needs to provide transit access for both of these corridors in
recognition that the completion of the full system is the overall objective. He requested
support for regional equity. We need to look for ways to support the Northwest and North
Metro transportation needs.

Will Toor, Boulder County Commissioner, and Honorable Mayor Bob Muckle of
Louisville teamed up to represent the position of the US 36 Coalition and Commissioners. Will
Tour read a letter from the US 36 Mayors/Commissioners Coalition, a copy of which is located
in the Board minute notebook in the Board office. This letter outlined the conversation and
agreed upon next steps from a meeting held with RTD General Manager and staff on July 12,
2012. Some of that understanding included:
o RTD will contribute $15 M to the US 36 Managed Lane in partnership with
CDOT and the US 36 corridor. Additional funds of approximately $400K in
annual bus operations from FasTracks funds beginning in 2015and additional
ancillary services.
o Commitment to a true BRT lane. Improved platforms and investment in transit
infrastructures, etc.
o Agreement to help the rest of the corridor in understanding of possible funding
sources and options.
o Advance a study for the NW corridor in the fall of 2012 to the summer of 2013.
The study would evaluate transit options including rail segmenting, identify
funding levels and timing.

Paul Ryan with the City of Denver read a letter from the Honorable Mayor Hancock.
Mayor Hancock conveyed his congratulations to the RTD Board and the General Manager on
the culmination of the Board’s first successful “unsolicited proposal” process. He stated that
they have learned from Denver Union Station and from the Eagle P3 east line project that
public private partnerships are the way of the future. He stated that as we climb out of the
economic doldrums of the past few years, public money is scarce leading us to look to
partnerships with the private sector to construct important infrastructure projects that benefit
government, the business community and the citizen of our entire region.
The City of Denver is proud to work with RTD and applaud this latest step toward the full
build out of the FasTracks program. We also stand with our regional partners whose lines
remain unfunded and we pledge our support to them as they work toward additional
innovative funding solutions.

Lucky Highfill, Aurora, expressed his support on behalf of the 3400 residents of
Heather Gardens where over 100 of these residents are veterans. They are excited to

hear the good news that they may be able to ride the light rail to the Veterans hospital for
their treatments. The average age is 75 for these residents and they are concerned about
their ability to drive to their appointments, etc. The I-225 light rail provides them with
mobility and a safe factor they do not have to concern themselves with as they progress
in age. This ensures them their independence and gives freedom to them to get around
the city.


John Harney, President of University of Colorado Hospital, offered his support for the
I-225 corridor. He shared some of the statistics from the university on the number of
employees, inpatient care, regional users and that they serve a large number of medically
uninsured. He also spoke to some of the growth plans that include a new patient tower
next year and anticipated growth beyond this.



Steve VanNurohm, Fitzsimons Redevelopment Authority, shared that he has only been
here for 33 days but compared the growth of the Anschutz campus with the Mayo clinic.
He spoke to Anschutz campus growing into a world-class center. He stated that just as
the Mayo Clinic grew from a 38K campus to a 58K campus, this cannot be done without
the proper infrastructure to transport the employees and users of the facilities into and
out of the center. The completion of the I-225 corridor is critical to enabling this growth.



Lynne Brunig asked to know the impact of what the approval of the I-225 unsolicited
proposal will have on the Welton (Five Points planned TOD and what funding will be
available.



Amy Casseri with Children’s Hospital stated her support for the I-225 proposal. She
stated that 40% of the medical recipients are dependent on public transportation.



Holli Reiber, Colorado Bioscience Association, spoke to the anticipated growth from
20K employees to 40K employees. She sees the completion of the I-225 corridor as an
investment in our infrastructure.



State Senator Suzanne Williams, Aurora, stated this this was about creating jobs for
the region, jobs for Aurora, Denver and the Denver Tech Center. She noted that the
Denver Tech Center has more employees than downtown Denver who come from across
the region. Aurora’s concern is about the current gridlock that can only get worse if other
transportation options are not implemented. She urged support for this I-225 Unsolicited
proposal.



Tom Grushka, candidate for the RTD Board of Directors in District H, stated his
support for the I-225 expansion. He stated that the constituents had paid and voted for
this in 2004. He expressed concerns also that last January, RTD made extreme cuts in
bus routes. He has done a thorough analysis of these cuts and some of the economics
do not make sense (i.e. Lockheed martin, student at the Colorado Center for the Blind,
etc.). All of these need access and a goof feeder service to the light rail. He asked the
Board to re-consider the upcoming cuts west of Wadsworth.



Bill Bates representing the business labor, gave his support to the I-225 proposal. He
thinks the construction agreement is a good deal for the contractors. He has worked
with Kiewit on a number of projects and knows them to do a good job. With this

proposal, workers will get healthcare and good training.


Reza Akhavan, transportation director at CDOT, spoke of his appreciation of the
partnership between RTD and CDOT. He provided three examples where the region has
benefited from this partnership:
o
Extension of the light rail form Nine Mile to Iliff
o
US 36 Managed Lanes
o
I-25 N Managed lanes.
He thanked everyone for making the partnership happen.

 Lisa Buckley, American Automation, spoke as a small business owner in this area for 12
years. She spoke on the strong leadership and how Kiewit has mentored her company to
be successful. She is in support of the I-225 Unsolicited proposal.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Daly noted the incorrect use of a word in the Financial and Administration
minutes. Director James also provided a couple of corrections to these minutes. Director
Bagley provided a correction to the Executive Committee minutes. All these corrections
have been made to the published minutes.

VI.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE UPDATE REPORT
Director Tayer, Chair of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force provided a handout and
update from the meeting that occurred earlier in the day where the Task Force met in
their annual review of the proposed budget. Director Tayer indicated it was a great
turnout with full participation and input from the Task Force. He identified a few of the
comments from that meeting:
o Some of the Task Force expressed skeptic over the revised CU Leeds forecast
using the 8.3% sales tax. They expressed caution in using this number.
o There were some questions over the confidence in the debt interest calculation and
if that was too high.
o They asked about the diesel fuel calculation increase.
Terry Howerter, CFO, provided a response to these questions. He indicated that for
about the last month, we have been running at around 9.9% on sales tax. In addition to
using the CU Leeds projections, we also have a working sales tax groups and have
developed a methodology that he is very comfortable with. Over the past 4 years, we

have averaged about 3.6%. He thinks we have the mechanisms in place to track this and
to adjust quickly if needed. He also made a correction to the 2% for debt interest that had
been quoted earlier. The 2% was a short term but the longer term COP (12 years) was
more of a 4% rate. The diesel fuel $30M operating cost is based on the CPI. In the
document we reflect only the incremental cost or $2.7M increase.
Pertaining to the fund balance, clarity was asked around when reserves can be used.
Some of the members of the Task Force favored an approach that says it is difficult to
save for a rainy day when you are already in the storm. Others felt we should exercise
caution and perhaps exercise a more conservative approach, but we need to continue to
move forward on the fund balances. While some of them thought the concept of a
community pilot was good and we need to have the dialogue with the community on
shared resources and processes, they did not support having a separate fund balance for
community pilot. Terry Howerter stated he was pleased with the Task Force comments
and recommendations.
Pertaining to the Task Force recommendations, there was caution around the selfcollection of sales tax, that there may be resistance from the business community. The
Task Force also thought the issue of value capture should be explored further as a
potential new resource.
The overall advice from the Task Force was to continue moving forward but to do so
conservatively. They expressed kudos to RTD for the first steps taken especially on the
difficult decision of service optimization. RTD should hold the course.
Director James also expressed other comments from the Task Force related to
organizational structure topics and how the Task Force should go forward (i.e. who
should chair? Re-organizing the priorities and the moving targets). He expressed his
thought on the question should value capture be on a district-wide basis. RTD is
definitely creating value as we continue to build out our system. Is there a value we can
extract that will help to continue to fund more corridors and help us to become more
sustainable?
Director O’Boyle indicated his general takeaway was favorable and valuable.
Director Anderson indicated that on the comments related to RTD being over optimistic in
our sales tax forecast, she had a chance to engage in a discussion where although there
is some concern, there is also the awareness that we have mechanisms in place to closely
monitor the system. She understood there is support for community pilots but using the
current processes already in place and becoming more innovative in our approach-not in
creating more fund balances.
Chair Kemp stated there was an appreciation for the fact that RTD has been open and
transparent in our processes. He had also invited Joe Wilson, Mayor of Erie to participate
in the Fiscal Sustainability Task force. Joe was enlightened by the experience. He
believes this adds more legitimacy to our process.
Director James expressed we have a self-correcting process with our forecasts and
projections. We do not need another level of fund balance. We need to keep it simple and
continue to look for outside sources
VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
There were no comments from the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 26, 2012
MOTION:

Director Anderson moved for the
adoption of the June 26, 2012 Regular
Board Meeting Minutes as written and
circulated.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor and 0 against. Director
Hoy was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp provided these updates:
 Director Hoy hosted the RTD groundbreaking for the Northwest Rail. Hoy did a stellar
job and many people attended.
 Director Cohen hosted the Sheridan parking structure ceremony. This event is the
final groundbreaking for the West Rail. The event was well attended by Mayor
Murphy, Mayor Hancock and a host of other elected officials and representatives
across the area
 Directors Hoy and Williams have a planned tour for North Metro representatives for
July 20.
 The National COMTO conference will begin July 21st in Denver. Director Malpiede will
host the HUB day panel. Director Deadwyler announced that Dan Pearsall, Consultant
with the RTD SBE/DBE office, has been elected as President of the Colorado COMTO
Chapter.

Director Deadwyler will be attending the APTA Board members and Board Support
Conference which begins July 21st in Atlanta.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
General Manager Washington gave a brief update on the following items.
 Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO) National Conference in
Denver—RTD is happy to host this conference in Denver, Along with the SWTA and
WTS conferences that were also held in Denver, this would mark the third national
conference in Colorado in 2012. The Colorado COMTO chapter is the reigning
Chapter of the Year.
 The APTA West Line Peer Review is going on this week. Dave Genova and Austin
Jenkins are heavily involved in this peer review. Members of this Peer review panel
are from DART, LA, Portland and Sound Metro. organization. This is an APTA
sponsored program.



Other Matters
The RTD 2011/2012 Annual report to the region is available on the website and is
accessible to the visually impaired.

X.



The GM had emailed information on the Transportation Re-Authorization bill. RTD is
the only PPP in the country that is recognized by our federal organization.



Director McMullen asked the General Manager if he could speak to when he think the
full regional completion of FasTracks may be or when we might go out for more taxes.
General Manager Washington responded that he believes we are well on our way to
getting the corridors completed using a statesman like approach that includes
partnership with our private partners, as well as other public entities. As he reflects
over our accomplishments, he believes RTD has implemented flawlessly so that we
are well positioned for other opportunities in the future. He believes RTD has managed
this agency better than most as reflected in the local and national recognition that we
have received for such things as our PPP, our innovative transformational forum from
which with the I-225 Unsolicited proposal came forth, the WIN Program, the projected
completion of the West Corridor ahead of schedule and other innovative approaches.
RTD has been the recipient of many grants that only come through creating a
reputation for successful execution. Nevertheless, we still need additional resources
to get it all done. He believes we may need less than the initially thought four-tenths
sales tax for completion. We will have more projects under contract than we thought
so with this proposal, we will be able to complete two more corridors (I-225 & US 36
BRT). As we are building, we are enabling the development of transit-oriented
communities and other community growth that is an economic stimulus and a form of
job creation. That is why the staff is not recommending building stubbies that lead to
nowhere. Staff is reviewing all assumptions in the FasTracks plan. They plan in the
next 30 days to provide an approach for the remaining Big 3 corridors (Northwest,
North Metro and US 36) and have already shared some information with the Board of
Directors. They will not be leaving any part of the regional corridors out and will also
provide ideas on the Little 3 corridors. He is extremely optimistic with the relationships
we have forged with CDOT, the City of Aurora, the City of Denver, and US 36 and
will continue to work on relationships with other entities and municipalities to leverage
opportunities. He believes the future is bright for this agency and for the Colorado
regional community.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A and B on the unanimous consent.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve item A&B on the unanimous
consent agenda.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Director Deadwyler asked about task
goal 3 on the General Manager’s 2013
goals. She asked if this was a SMART
goal and if it had any teeth.
GM
Oversight and Performance Committee
Chair Bagley responded that the goal was
written this way to allow for flexibility as
staff tackles all the recommendations
from the Fiscal Sustainability. This can
be leveraged to look at all possible

scenarios for Fiscal Sustainability. The
committee thought that providing a
number would be too narrow or limiting.
The Committee will be monitoring for
substantial progress.
Director Tayer stated that he understood
the question around SMART goals but
given the large number of fiscal
sustainability recommendations, he is
good with how the task goal is worded.
Director Bagley stated the Committee will
be fully engaged with the General
Manager
on
the
process
for
implementation. They will be monitoring
progress on more enhanced goals such
as the community outreach goal.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and
Williams) and 1 against (Deadwyler).
Director Malpiede was absent from the
vote.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

A. Approval of General Manager’s 2013 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s goals for 2013.
B. Contract amendment to increase Triunity Engineering & Management, Inc. annual not-toexceed limit contract amount.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend
the Triunity Engineering & Management, Inc. (Triunity) (Contract Number
12DK001B) to increase the contract amount annual not-to-exceed limit from $500,000 to
$1,000,000. The contract is structured on a negotiated labor hourly rate schedule; for a
one-year period with annual extension options for an additional four (4) years (potential
total contract duration of five (5)-years).

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
C. Contract amendment to increase Dataman USA’s annual not-to-exceed limit contract
amount.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to amend the Dataman USA LLC (Contract Number 12DK001A) to in
increase the contract amount annual not-to-exceed limit from $500,000
to$1,000,000. The contract is structured on a negotiated labor hourly rate
schedule; for a one-year period with annual extension options for an additional
four (4) years (potential total contract duration of five (5)-years).
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the contract amendment to
increase Dataman USA’s annual not-toexceed limit contract amount.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen,
Walker and Williams) 1 against
(Deadwyler). Director Hoy was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

D. 2013–2018 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2013-2018 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).

MOTION:

Director James made the motion to
approve the 2013-2018 Strategic Budget
Plan.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Hoy was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.
ADJOURN

XV.

The meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING

Tuesday, July 17, 2012
BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams

District I
District O
District L
District H
District C
District M
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Larry Hoy

District J

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bill Bell
Phil Eberl
Brian Iacono
Doug MacLeod
Scott Reed
Walt Stringer
Phil Washington
Sherman Hamilton
Chuck Culig
Marta Sipeki
George Mattox

Rick Clarke
Sherry Ellebracht
Austin Jenkins
Anthony Menendez
Jeanette Scarpino
Pauletta Tonilas
Susan Wood
Roger Sherman
Danielle Smith
Joni Goheen
ZJ Czupor

Susan Cohen
David Genova
Erin Klaas
Barbara McManus
Daria Serna
Mike Turner
Narciso Garcia Jr.
Brenda Tierney
Benjamin Sanchez
Tina Jaquez

Kevin Diviness
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Paula Perdue
John Shonsey
Bill Van Meter
Laura Baxter
L. Skip Brown
Stan Szabelak

OTHERS PRESENT: Reza Akhovon, Lyle Artz, Bill Bates, Gary Bell, Bruce Benson – University of Colorado
President, Sal Birmttiri, Dave Bishop, Courtney Brand, Dana Boomsdols, Lynne Bruning, Ishmail Buckley, Lisa
Buckley, Mac Callison, Michael Carrigan – University of Colorado Regent, Amy Casseri, Chris Chen, Vince
Chowdhury, Jeff Cole, Karl Davis, David Erb, Greg Fischer, Mary Keith Floyd, Claudia Folska, Jeff Framm,
Maria Garcia-Berry, Liz Gehring, Amanda Gonzalez, Yuriy Gorlov, Larry Gray, Tom Grushka, Lucia Guatney,
John Harney, Lucky Highfill, Brent Hillyard, Dick Hinson, Steve Hogan – Mayor of Aurora, Gloria Holliday,
Dave Holst, John M. Huygens, Rob Jackson, Roxanne Jacobson, Paul Jordan, David Jurich, Erika Kampe,
Melanie Knaus, Lynn Lyons, Tim Mackin, Herman Malone, Jim Martinez, Andrew Matusak, Virginia McAllister,
Rich McClintock, Jack McCroskey, Marilyn McCroskey, Marissa McCroskey, Kathryn Middleton, Wendy
Mitchell, Bob Muckle – Mayor of Louisville, Rick Muntean, Bob Murphy – Mayor of Lakewood, Ken Neeper,
Amanda O’Conner, Daniel Owens, Jim Paulmeno, Rick Pilgrim – Metro Mayor’s Caucus, Chris Pitaniello, R.A.
Plummer, Brandon Rattiner, Holli Reibel, Ed Riegert, Jacob Riger, Brad Rodenberg, Richard Romig, Paul Ryan –
Representing Mayor Hancock of Denver, Michael Sharon, Kathleen Sheldon, Jeanne Shreve, Ed Slattery, Eric
Standstorm, Marla Stauth, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor, Jeff Thompson, Will Toor – Boulder County
Commissioner, Dave Turnquist, Steve VanNurden, Bob Watkins, Monte Whaley, Jeff Whiteman, Suzanne
Williams – State Senator, Martin Willie, Zach Zaslow

