Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
16, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 16, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, October 16, 2008 at 5:49 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Bill Christopher, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Bruce Daly, Daryl Kinton, Chris
Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman,
John Tayer, and Barbara Yamrick.
Board Members
Absent:

Lee Kemp, Bill Elfenbein, Noel Busck, and Juanita Chacon.

Staff Present:

Bill Van Meter, Rick Clarke, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue, Mike Turner, John
Shonsey, Jerry Nery, Carol Deucker, John Tarbert, Marla Lien, Henry
Stopplecamp, Genevieve Hutchison, and Lisa Trujillo

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 5:49 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Contract Amendment to PBS&J for Advanced Preliminary Engineering
of UPRP Track Relocation on the East Corridor
Rick Clark, Senior Program Manager, FasTracks Implementation, introduced this item
and explained that in order to provide for relocation of UP facilities within the
schedule requirements of the East Corridor project, the East Corridor EIS must begin
preparation of Advanced Engineering design documents for the relocation work.
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the contract
with PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)/Basic
Engineering be amended to add $1,100,000 to the project budget. The contract
amendment is required in order for the consultant to prepare Advanced Basic
Engineering design documents for the relocation of freight railroad facilities
necessary for construction of the East Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,100,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide fully fund the 2008 portion

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
16, 2008
Page 2 of 4

of the contract amendment. This action will accelerate funding originally
programmed for final design in 2011 to allow for completion of final design
documents.



Motion:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. for On-Call and
Specific Systems Construction Services
Rick Clark explained that the need has arisen for an on-call systems construction
services contract for its LRT electrical system. This is specialized work that can
only be performed by specific contractors. The focus of this is miscellaneous
retrofit and emergency projects in the existing rail system. Nine specific projects
were identified. Please refer to board report for more details
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Balfour
Beatty Rail Inc. (BBRI), the most qualified firm based on the application of the
evaluation criteria, in the amount of $56,301,820 for an On-Call Systems
Construction Services Contractor. The work in this Contract includes providing
new, retrofit, and emergency construction services for the Overhead Contact
System, Traction Power Systems, Fare Collection Systems, Signal and
Communication System, and Trackwork construction services. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2008 Amended Budget, the 2009-2014 Transit
Development Program, and the FasTracks Financial Plan.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
16, 2008
Page 3 of 4

Discussion:
Director McMullen asked why the price was rated at 50%. Rick responded that 50% has been
a value that worked very well and was also used on TREX. In this case the price was the
determining factor. BBRI’s price proposal was lower then MEC’s price proposal and below the
engineer’s estimate.
Director Daly inquired as to why fareboxes were included as one of the 9 items? Rick
indicated that the contractor would install the fareboxes because it is electrical.
Director Christopher asked if these would move forward on a case by case basis. Rick
indicated that we have the money for some projects and they will move ahead.
Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously


Construction Agreement with Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation (EMEF)
for Earthwork at C470 & Lucent Blvd. on RTD property – Highlands Ranch
John Shonsey, Senior Manager, Engineering/Chief Engineering FasTracks
Administration, introduced this item to the board and asked that they approve staffs
recommendation to go into a contract agreement with McLellan Reservoir Foundation
(EMRF).
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a construction agreement with the
Englewood McLellan Reservoir Foundation (EMRF) in the amount of
$671,680.00 for the overlot grading of the Highlands Ranch RTD property
located near C470 & Lucent Blvd. This action is recommended because it
would: (1) provide convenient earthwork staging and grading of RTD property;
(2) better coordinate with and blend into the adjacent development property;
and (3) is very cost effective, saving RTD approximately 50% of the cost
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the October 21, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:
There were clarification questions regarding the map that was handed out.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
16, 2008
Page 4 of 4

Vote on
Motion:
II.

The Motion passed unanimously.

Updates


East Corridor Preferred Alternative Update
Bill Van Meter, Senior Manager, Systems Planning, announced that Mike Turner is
leaving RTD to greener pastures. Mike is going to work for National Park Service.
Several board members shared kind words about Mike and recognized his honesty
and even temperedness. It was even suggested that the tactic Mike used for public
process on the East Corridor should be used as an example when going out to other
corridors.
Mike Turner then proceeded through the East Corridor EIS Power point presentation.
Please refer to presentation for detailed information.
Staff will be looking into a suggestion by Barbara Yamrick about moving the red line
south of where it currently is.
There was also discussion about strategies to minimize property impacts.



Public Private Partnership Request for Qualifications
Rick Clark breezed through this presentation since it was already presented to the board
in July. He wanted to give the board a heads up that they are currently looking through
the RFP’s and plan to bring to Executive Session on November 6th. Three teams
submitted qualification statements – Denver Transit Partners, Mile High Transit and
Mountain Air Transit Partners.

III.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Planning and Development
Committee will be November 6th, 2008.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 7:25 p.m.

