Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 4,
2010
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 11, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, May 4, 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen
Directors Bagley, Christopher, Kemp, and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Anthony Menendez, Brian Middleton, Karen Morales, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling,
John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bob Wilson (GLAC), Robin Kniech (FRESC),
and Mac Callison
****

Call to Order:

I.

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting at 7:05 p.m. The Chair and
Vice-Chair of the Planning and Development Committee were both
absent.

Recommended Action
Susan Altes, Real Property Manager, reviewed the following action item with the board.
There is no DBE/SBE goal attached to this contract because this type of legal service is
very specialized. When this contract was first awarded Directors Chacon and Martinez
met with Robert Duncan who is the Principal of this firm to express how important it
was to have FT money affect the community. This particular firm has gone above and
beyond for soliciting help from small firms where they can be of service.
Susan also indicated that the new contract amount is 1.9 million instead of 2.7 million,
a revised board report was provided to the board members.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 4,
2010
Page 2 of 3

Contract Amendment for Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend contract 17F0034A
with Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C. for the provision of legal services specializing
in eminent domain for the West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects
to increase the contract amount by $1,000,000, for a new total contract amount of
$2,700,000. This contract was originally awarded January 15, 2008 for an initial
three years plus two one year options to renew. The contract is in the third year of the
initial performance period which began January 15, 2010 and will end January 15,
2011 with the ability to extend for two one-year options.
Funding for this contract increase is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the East
Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems Improvements, and US 36 BRT – Phase I
projects.

MOTION:

Director Brohl made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 18,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Contract Amendment for Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance Services
Contracts; Universal Field Services, Inc., Briggs Field Services, Inc., and H. C. Peck and
Associates, Inc.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend contracts 17DH014
with Universal Field Services, Inc., 17DH001 with Briggs Field Services, Inc. and
17DH013 with H. C. Peck and Associates, Inc. for the provision of property
acquisition, relocation assistance, property management and planning services for the
West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects including the US 36
Phase I BRT and the Eagle P3 projects to increase each contract amount by
$1,000,000, for a new total contract amount of $2,065,000, $2,000,000 and
$2,550,000 respectively. These contracts were originally awarded September 14,
2007 for an initial two years plus three one-year options to renew. The contracts are in
the first option period.
Funding for these contract increases is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the
East Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems Improvements, and US 36 BRT –
Phase I projects.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 4,
2010
Page 3 of 3

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 18,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

II. Updates
Peer Transit Agency Review of TOD
Bill Van Meter introduced this as the next in a series of presentations laying the ground
work for the larger policy discussion that will take place later in the summer in terms of
making progress on TOD practice and updating policies. Bill Sirois and GB Harrington of
PB Placemaking proceeded through the presentation.
After the presentation, Phil Washington, General Manager asked Bill Sirois to go over
the timeline for the next series of presentations:
- There will not be a presentation next month (June).
- They will come back in July to have more of a discussion of what was presented this
evening and depending on what the board decides, come back in the Fall with a plan.
Director Tobiassen congratulated Bill Sirois for winning an award that was presented at
the DRCOG awards banquet for the Eastlake TOD Master plan.
III. Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.
IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is
scheduled for June 15, 2010.
V. Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Chair Martinez adjourned the Planning & Development
Committee meeting at 8:00 p.m.

