1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, February 2, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here (connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 896 0909 8751#
Webinar Passcode: 748404#

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Shelley Cook

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of 15L Route Improvements Change Order
• Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - April 6, 2021
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Approval of 15L Route Improvements Change Order

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or her designee, to grant Jalisco International, Inc. a time extension for
the 15L Route Improvements Contract until October 15, 2021, and increase the contract amount by
$793,000 for a total amount not to exceed $9,969,050.36.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager – Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Route 15L Ridership
The route 15L runs between the Decatur-Federal Station in the City and County of Denver (CCD) and the
Aurora Metro Center Station in Aurora, a total distance of 15 miles, on Colfax Avenue. In early 2020,
prior to the COVID-19 Pandemic, the 15 and 15L routes combined carried approximately 24,000
customers on weekdays, which was comparable to the southwest light rail corridor (i.e., the C and D
lines combined). Typically, many of the 15L stops have more than 500 boardings per weekday and the
eastbound stop at Lincoln has more than 2,000 boardings per weekday.
15L Route Improvements Project Scope
The 15L Route Improvements project is currently under construction. The project’s purpose is to
significantly enhance operations and the customer experience through the implementation of Transit
Signal Priority (TSP) and queue jumps/bypass lanes in the Denver project segment, along with bulb-outs
(curb extensions) throughout the corridor. Additionally, 36 modern and transparent shelters with
benches and trash receptacles will be installed throughout the corridor, most of which will be equipped
with light-emitting diode (LED) lights, map/schedule displays and security cameras.
The shelters were designed to enhance the customer experience while minimizing electricity usage,
thereby, reducing their carbon footprint. RTD designed the monument cabinets, which house the
electronics, (i.e., computer networking equipment, fiber optics and cellular gateways, network video
recorders, etc.) without any air conditioning units and utilized efficient LED lighting fixtures.
Project Funding
Funding for the project was made available through federal and state grants totaling $9,025,000. The
grants include a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Ladders of Opportunity grant; a CDOT Funding
Advancements for Surface Transportation and Economic Recovery (FASTER) grant; a Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) grant; and, Senate Bill1 grant award, for design, construction, materials testing, and inspection of the project. The local match
requirement varies by grant. When considered holistically, RTD is providing 24% of the total as local
match to the funding for a total project budget of $11,841,422.

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

On Dec 18, 2018, the RTD Board authorized the General Manager to enter into a contract with Jalisco
International, Inc. for the proposed work with a not to exceed value of $8,690,000. Over the last two
years, the base contract has been increased by $486,050.36 to cover various modifications. The current
contact value is $ 9,176,050.36 and RTD staff is requesting an additional $793,000 to fund
enhancements to the shelter monuments.
A request has been made to the FTA to extend the period of performance of the grant until December
31, 2021.
DISCUSSION
The base contract included an out-of-state manufacturer for monument cabinets fabrication and due to
the pandemic, staff was not able to perform an onsite inspection. Upon receipt and inspection of the
first shelter, the Project Team determined that additional enhancements to the cabinet design were
necessary for the long-term functionality and maintainability of the units.
Staff has directed the contractor to provide proposals for redesigning and fabricating the monuments.
Jalisco has provided three proposals and a local vendor was selected to design and build a new
prototype.
The new monuments will:
• Better withstand weather conditions: improved weatherproofing by enhancing seams, closures
and gaskets.
• Have vandalism resistance elements: improved sturdiness, rigidity and access to panels.
• Be Easier to Maintain: improved access for maintenance.
• Use Less Energy: chimney effect avoids the energy-consuming air conditioning.
The majority of the civil work has been completed and the monuments along with the canopy installation
are the remaining open items. The current completion date is January 31,2021. Based upon the
aforementioned, staff recommends the continuation of work with Jalisco and its local fabricator until
October 15, 2021.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the contract change is included within the Board approved project budget which includes
funding support from other Agencies.
It is important to note, these project funds are for the agreed scope of work between RTD and its
Partner Agencies and cannot be used for any other projects.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number
(the “Resolution”), the “Equitable Transit-Oriented
Development Policy” to permit and encourage the development of affordable housing on RTD real
property.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The intent of the Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy (the “Policy”) is to encourage
affordable housing on RTD real property at and along high-frequency transit stations and corridors.
Successful implementation of the Policy would increase ridership through transit-supportive land use,
generate revenue through joint development on RTD real property, and enhance community
relationships. Staff will use the Policy to coordinate with state and local agencies, negotiate with
developers, and reduce administrative, acquisition, and construction costs in order to reduce overall
development costs and help enable affordable housing.
The State enabled RTD to promote the public health, safety, convenience, economy, and welfare of
residents in the region and the state. Housing and transportation typically are the highest costs in a
household’s budget, affecting the vitality of household economy and welfare. Reducing housing and
transportation costs allows households to save for their health, safety, and convenience.
RTD staff has assessed Metro Denver transit ridership trends and parking demands to better understand
customer needs. In a survey of 1,340 residents of 35 station-area apartments across the region, staff
found that low-income households typically use transit more than market-rate residents. Specifically:
•
•
•

63 percent of low-income households use the bus once a week or more, while 88 percent of
market-rate households ride the bus once a week or less.
57 percent of low-income households use the train once a week or more, while 73 percent of
market-rate households ride the train once a week or less.
61 percent of low-income households have no car, while 93 percent of market-rate households
have at least one car.

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2

Regarding parking demand, RTD staff recently analyzed 86 private station-area properties across the
region. This analysis found that residents use only 58 percent of all parking spaces provided, and
residents of income-restricted housing use only 50 percent of all parking spaces provided. These findings
suggest that negotiating with developers and municipalities to reduce parking supply in joint
development projects – particularly those with income-restricted housing – could reduce development
costs and thus promote affordable housing from which RTD ridership benefits.
Metro Denver needs more lower-cost housing. The City and County of Denver estimates that the region
lacks 100,000 affordable homes, and the National Community Reinvestment Coalition ranked Metro
Denver as the second fastest gentrifying region in the country between 2013 and 2017. As a property
owner, RTD has a unique opportunity to address the intent of its enabling legislation by helping to create
affordable housing on agency property, not only to address rising costs of living but also to encourage
transit use. Were RTD to encourage only market-rate development, it might lose the opportunity to
maximize ridership and satisfy the agency’s intent and mission. While RTD’s land holdings suitable for
joint development may barely make a dent in the region’s housing affordability problem, RTD can be part
of the solution and set an example for how to encourage affordable housing and increase ridership at the
same time.
Statutes/Policies
The following federal, state, and agency requirements for joint development inform this Policy:
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Joint Development Circular (2020): This circular clarifies that the
objective of FTA’s joint-development policy “…is to maximize the utility of FTA-assisted projects and to
encourage the generation of program income through joint development.” Beyond this policy
clarification, FTA defers to transit agencies to define their joint development policy: “It is FTA’s policy to
give project sponsors maximum flexibility within the law to work with the private sector and others to
pursue joint development.”
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) 32-9-102: RTD was created by State statute to “promote the public
health, safety, convenience, economy, and welfare of the residents of the district and of the state of
Colorado.” This Policy serves that mandate by enhancing the quality of life for low-income residents to
the economic benefit of RTD, the District, and the state.
C.R.S. 32-9-119(1)(h): RTD has the statutory power to “purchase, trade, exchange, or otherwise
acquire, maintain, and dispose of real property and personal property and any interest therein.”
C.R.S. 32-9-119.8: This statute permits RTD to enter into agreements to provide residential,
commercial, or retail uses at RTD transfer facilities. C.R.S. 32-9-119.8(3) states “Any person obtaining
the use of any portion of a transfer facility ... for the provision of residential uses or other uses shall be
required to compensate the district by payment of rent at fair market value, or, at the discretion of the
district, by the provision of services or capital improvements to facilities used in transit services, alone or
in combination with rental payments, such that the total benefit to the district is not less than the fair
market rental value of the property used by the person.”

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.2

C.R.S. 32-9-119.8(4) requires “The use of a transfer facility ... for the provision of residential uses or
other uses shall not be permitted if the use would reduce transit services [or] would reduce the
availability of adequate parking for the public.” This Policy complies with these statutory requirements.
RTD FasTracks Strategic Plan for TOD (2010): This plan affirms RTD’s support of policy goals, such as
the development of mixed-income housing near stations, as reflected by local jurisdictions’ adopted
policies. However, this plan neither creates incentives nor removes barriers to truly offer support for
affordable housing development.
RTD TOD Evaluation Guidelines (2018): These guidelines require staff to evaluate proposals for joint
development based on revenue, ridership, operations and maintenance impacts, amenities/access
improvements, community facilities/affordable housing provided, and benefits to the RTD brand image.
However, these guidelines are qualitative, and the provision of affordable housing is weighted equally
with other factors.
RTD Board Authority: Per RTD Board Resolution No. 15 Series of 2015, “Policy for Joint Development
and Disposition of Real Property,” the RTD Board of Directors retains the authority to review and
approve all transactions for joint development. This Policy does not conflict with that authority.
DISCUSSION
The Policy is composed of five elements that together will promote affordability in joint development
projects to reflect RTD’s aforementioned policies and abilities and build on best practices from peer
agencies.
Policy Element 1: Affordability Goal
Transit agencies that set affordability goals commonly require or recommend between 20 and 35
percent of units to be restricted to low-income households earning less than 100 percent area median
income (AMI). Some agencies look for these levels of affordability on a per-project basis, others look at
affordability on a per-station or portfolio-wide basis.
To permit and encourage the development of affordable housing, RTD sets an aspirational and nonbinding goal that 35 percent of the total residential units developed on RTD property will be affordable to
low-income households. For consistency with state and local affordability requirements and the variety
of needs across the District, RTD’s determination of affordability will be linked to AMI targets set by
state and local partners. These targets are generally linked to Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
requirements as administered by the Colorado Housing and Finance Authority (CHFA). In 2020, CHFA
supports development projects that provide residential units averaging up to 60 percent AMI. Based on
the District’s size and varying suitability for development, the Policy sets a portfolio-wide goal to be
measured over the next 10 years.
Policy Element 2: Parking Replacement
Many customers access transit by driving to a Park-n-Ride (PnR) and boarding a bus or train. RTD’s
typical practice has been to require developers building on active PnRs to replace all existing parking
spaces. Due to the economics of real estate development, those spaces (typically in surface lots) would
then need to be structured in a new garage. Estimates vary, but in 2020 parking garages can easily cost
$25,000 or more per parking space. To put this in context, for a 200-space PnR, a garage would cost
$5,000,000. If a developer cannot afford to pay for the replacement parking on top of the land cost, the

Packet Pg. 8

1.B.2

cost of the replacement parking would need to come directly out of the proceeds to RTD of the land
transfer, whether that be a sale or a ground lease. Replacing RTD parking spaces may also reduce livable
square footage from the larger development.
Some peer agencies evaluate the replacement of parking spaces by modeling future parking demand at
each station. The Policy clarifies that RTD will also determine the quantity of replacement parking based
on projected future parking utilization, among other agency considerations.
Policy Element 3: Shared Parking
Similar to replacement parking considerations, there are opportunities for development cost reductions
when transit customers and non-transit customers can share parking. Peer agencies consider including
shared parking in joint development based on the specifics of each development. In situations where
transit customers’ access to buses and trains can be protected, RTD may also consider opportunities for
shared parking.
Policy Element 4: Expedited Administration
Peer agencies occasionally waive internal processing and development review fees, minimize review
times, and entitle agency property to attract developers and reduce development uncertainty, costs and
schedules. The Policy clarifies that RTD may do the same.
Policy Element 5: Negotiated Land Price
The cost of land, especially at station areas with high real estate values, is a common barrier to
affordable housing development. Some peer agencies offer affordable developers discounts on land price
to encourage affordable housing development. It is not the intent of RTD to offer “discounts,” but rather
to assess and consider other agency benefits in its determination of an appropriate sale or lease price
within the bounds of statutory requirements.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no expected direct financial impact of this resolution. Existing resolutions require that financial
implications be considered as part of any Board or staff decision related to TOD projects.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution

•

Equitable TOD Policy Presentation

(PDF)

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Chessy Brady, Manager, Transit-Oriented Development
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.B.2

Packet Pg. 10

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2021
(Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy)
A RESOLUTION PROVIDING POLICY GUIDANCE TO PERMIT AND ENCOURAGE THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON RTD REAL PROPERTY.
WHEREAS, Regional Transportation District (RTD) plans, designs, builds, and operates
mass transit for the Denver region; and
WHEREAS, the provision of transit service to the Denver region by RTD influences
development patterns and supports transit-oriented development (TOD); and
WHEREAS, the State created RTD to “promote the public health, safety, convenience,
economy, and welfare of the residents of the district and of the state of Colorado;” and
WHEREAS, RTD has the statutory power to “purchase, trade, exchange, or otherwise
acquire, maintain, and dispose of real property and personal property and any interest
therein;” and
WHEREAS, the adequate availability of affordable housing is a regional concern; and
WHEREAS, RTD research demonstrates that low-income people who reside near public
transit are more likely to use transit than higher income people; and
WHEREAS, RTD research demonstrates that private buildings located near transit provide
more parking than needed by residents; and
WHEREAS, RTD decisions on transit-oriented development are governed by the Colorado
Revised Statutes, Federal Transit Administration guidance (Joint Development Circular C
7050.1B), and a broad set of internal policies, including RTD’s Strategic Plan for TOD
(2010), Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of Real Property (RTD Resolution 15,
Series of 2015), Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property (RTD Resolution 16, Series
of 2015), Parking Guiding Principles (RTD Resolution 24, Series of 2016), and TOD
Evaluation Guidelines (RTD Resolution 2, Series of 2018); and
WHEREAS, FTA guidance, and internal policies support the development of affordable
housing on RTD land; and
WHEREAS, RTD staff would benefit from additional policy guidance from the RTD Board of
Directors on evaluating TOD projects;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT TO ADOPT THE FOLLOWING EQUITABLE TRANSITORIENTED DEVELOPMENT POLICY:

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

1.B.2.a

Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy
This Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy (the “Policy”) permits and
encourages the joint development of RTD-owned real property for the creation of housing
affordable for low-income households in order to increase transit ridership through transitsupportive land use, generate revenue through joint development, and enhance community
relationships. Informed by research of local policies and peer agency practices, the Policy
permits the use of a variety of strategies to spur the development of affordable housing
and sets a goal for affordable housing development on agency land. The Policy is intended
to reduce development costs and empower staff to initiate negotiations with developers
and coordinate with state and local agencies to promote affordable housing as a transitsupportive land use at and along high-frequency transit corridors.

In addition to researching ridership trends, parking demand, best practices employed by
peer agencies, and existing requirements for joint development, staff consulted with local
jurisdictions in the District and other transportation and housing partners to inform the
Policy.

The Policy shall apply to residential development occurring on RTD land through joint
development transactions, wherein RTD has a continued interest in the site, either through
a ground lease or due to on-site or adjacent transit uses.
1. Affordability Goal: To permit and encourage the development of affordable housing,
RTD sets an aspirational and non-binding goal to include affordable residential units
constructed on RTD property. Across its portfolio, and over the next 10 years, staff
shall endeavor to reach the goal that 35 percent of the total residential units
developed on RTD property will be affordable to low-income households. Such
households will have incomes that correspond to affordability requirements at state
and local levels, such as those determined by the Colorado Housing and Finance
Authority (CHFA). In any given year, in any given jurisdiction, and in any given
project, the number of affordable units created may be more or less than 35
percent, but across all residential joint development projects, RTD will aspire to
achieve that goal. This goal will apply over a 10-year period, will be presented to
the RTD Board annually, and may be adjusted by the Board over time.
2. Parking Replacement: Where a new development will be located on an existing
Park-n-Ride, RTD will determine the quantity of replacement parking based on
projected future parking utilization among other agency considerations.
3. Shared Parking: Where there are opportunities to share parking between transit
customers and non-transit customers, and in situations where transit customers’
access to buses and trains can be protected, RTD may consider opportunities for
shared parking.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

1.B.2.a

4. Expedited Administration: Staff may waive internal processing and development
review fees, minimize review times, and entitle agency property to attract
developers and reduce development uncertainty, costs, and schedules.
Negotiated Land Price: RTD will operate within the bounds of its existing statutory
requirements to allow reductions in purchase price or rent in exchange for affordable
housing development or other benefits to the agency.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2021 Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy Resolution (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Policy)

1.B.2.a

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Equitable Transit-Oriented
Development (TOD) Policy

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Chessy Brady, TOD Manager
February 2, 2021

Packet Pg. 14

What is the Equitable TOD policy?
Policy Goal
Encourage affordable residential development for low-income households
at and along high-frequency transit stations and corridors
Objectives
• Increase ridership through transit-supportive land use
• Generate revenue through joint development
• Enhance community relationships

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Intent
Promote affordable housing as a transit-supportive land use by:
• Empowering staff to negotiate with developers
• Coordinating with state and local agencies

Tools
Reduce administrative, acquisition, and construction costs in order to
reduce overall development costs

2

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Why should RTD implement the policy?
• Lower-cost housing needed in Metro Denver
• Research indicates affordable housing residents use transit more than
market rate housing residents
• Consistency with statute to promote public welfare and increase transit use

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Equitable TOD is a best practice

• Enhances commitment to regional partnerships

3

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Peer Agency Equitable TOD Policy Requirements/Targets
• Varying affordable housing requirements for joint development
• Require 20%-35% of units be affordable at 60%-100% Area Median Income (AMI)
• Require affordability restrictions on a per-project, per-station or portfolio-wide basis

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Sound Transit
(Seattle)

BART
(San Francisco)

LA Metro
(Los Angeles)

MBTA
(Boston)

MARTA
(Atlanta)

MTS
(San Diego)

VTA
(Santa Clara, CA)

% Units
Restricted

80% (min)

20% (min);
35% (goal)

35% (goal)

20% (min)*

20% (goal)

20% (min)

20% (min);
35% (goal)

% AMI

80%

80%

60%

100%

80% (rental);
100% (for sale)

80%

60%;
Half at 50%

Project or
Portfolio?

Per project

Per station

Portfolio

Per project

Portfolio

Per project

Per project

*Negotiable to 10% in certain circumstances

4

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Peer Agencies’ Other Tools

Legend
Yes

Sound Transit

BART

LA Metro

Transit
Parking
Replacement

Evaluates
opportunity
for shared-use
parking

No parking
replacement at
“Urban” stations

Land
Discounts

Discounts
property based
on financial
need for project
viability

Discounts property
for projects that
are 35% affordable
ranging from 10%60%, based on
AMI

Discounts property
based on
percentage of
affordable units (up
to 30% fair market
value)

Seeks direct or
alternate
funding
sources,
including public
subsidy, to
support joint
development

Pursues state,
regional, and
philanthropic
partnerships to
alleviate and
prevent
homelessness
through affordable
housing

Contributes to
regional housing
fund for creation of
affordable housing
in station areas on
private property

MBTA

MARTA

Case-by-case
basis

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Other
Financial
Assistance
from Transit
Agency

Preference in
RFPs

May reduce
affordability
requirements
to 10% to
make project
viable

Encourages
reduced parking
minimums and
upzoning for
inclusion of
affordable units

Scores affordable
projects higher

Partial

No

N/A

MTS

VTA

Case-bycase basis

Case-by-case basis

Case-bycase basis

No land discounts,
unless project is
ground lease and
100% affordable

No
financial
assistance
specified

Encourages
upzoning for
greater
affordability and
facilitates
partnerships with
affordable housing
resources
Scores affordable
projects higher

5

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Equitable TOD Policy Elements
1. Affordability Goal
2. Parking Replacement
3. Shared Parking

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

4. Expedited Administration

EXAMPLE:
Each policy element is illustrated on a spectrum

5. Negotiated Land Price

Policy Element

No way
Option

Policy Commitment
Level

All in
Option

6

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 1. Affordability Goal
• 35% of all residential units developed on RTD property will be
affordable to low-income households
• Aspirational, non-binding goal
• Portfolio-wide
• 10-year evaluation period
• “Affordable” designation will correspond to requirements at state and local
levels (e.g., Colorado Housing and Finance Authority (CHFA))

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Staff will provide annual updates to RTD Board on progress towards goal

% Affordability Goal

0%

affordable

100%

35% goal,
portfolio-wide

affordable,
all projects

7

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 1. Affordability Goal (cont’d)
Illustration of 35% Affordability Goal, Portfolio-wide
•
•
•

RTD has few properties with real development potential
Number of properties that will develop is unknowable
Affordability goal will influence total number of affordable units developed

Assuming 300 units per project and a 35% goal,
if 2 sites are developed:

210 affordable units

if 5 sites are developed:

525 affordable units

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

A goal is not a
requirement — it helps
focus the agency on a
direction to pursue

if 10 sites are developed: 1,050 affordable units

8

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 2. Parking Replacement
• RTD will determine the quantity of replacement parking based on projected future
parking utilization, among other agency considerations
• Park-n-Rides provide crucial access to transit
• RTD parking replacement is expensive, reduces potential revenue for lease/sale of land

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Replacement of RTD transit parking

0%
Replacement

Replacement
depending on
projected utilization

100%
Replacement

9

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 3. Shared Parking
• RTD may consider opportunities for shared parking between transit customers and
non-transit customers when:
• Transit customers’ access to buses and trains is protected
• Opportunities create efficiency and cost savings

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Flexibility around shared parking
(between non and transit customers)

All spaces open to all

Some shared parking
spaces may be permitted,
e.g., for a certain number
of residents or guest
parking, or at certain times

Spaces fully segregated

10

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 4. Expedited Administration
• Reduce development costs by shortening time frame and increasing predictability
• Staff may
• Waive internal processing/development review fees
• Minimize review times
• Entitle agency property

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Expedited processing within RTD

All fees automatically
waived, review times
minimized, prepermit all properties

Waive fees for staff review,
minimize review times,
pre-permit where valuable

Treated no
differently than
other projects

11

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Policy Element 5. Negotiated Land Price
• Certain statutes require developer to compensate RTD at fair market value (FMV)
and/or by providing services or capital improvements
• Land cost – common barrier to affordable housing development
• Purchase price or rent reductions may be permitted in exchange for affordable housing
development or other agency benefits

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Negotiated Land Price

Require FMV in cash

Donate the land

Reduce price according
to existing statutory
requirements around
Fair Market Value

12

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Outreach Conducted
Staff has consulted state and local staff, peer agencies, and industry groups to
inform the policy:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

American Planning Association – Colorado Chapter, Sustainability Committee
City of Aurora
City and County of Denver – Community Planning and Development, Housing and Stability
City of Lakewood
Colorado Housing Finance Authority (CHFA)
Denver Region Council of Governments (DRCOG)
Mile High Connects
Neighborhood Development Collaborative
Urban Land Institute – Colorado Chapter
Town of Superior

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

13

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Questions?
Attachment: Equitable TOD Policy Presentation (4468 : Equitable Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)

1.B.2.b

Packet Pg. 27

