Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, May 2, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

May 9, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Wednesday, May 2, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chairs McMullen and Kinton
Directors; Busck, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp, Ruchman, and
Yamrick

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Lloyd Mack, Phil Washington, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Jeff Becker, Tony McCaulay, Bill
Porter, Cheryl Holmes, Pat Pugh, Brian Matthews, Manny Herrera,
Caitlin Magee

Others:

L.W. Morrow

Call to Order:

****
Co-Chair Kinton called the meeting to order at 5:28 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
Proposed August Service Changes – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of
Customer and Contracted Services, introduced this action item. This is to allow staff
to take the Service Changes out to the public for comment. Approval of the August
Service Changes will occur at the June Board Meeting.
Bill Porter, Manager, Service Planning/Scheduler, reviewed the proposed service
changes. These are the third and final service changes for 2007. One percent of the
budget is allocated for service increases. Currently, the District is $500,000 over
budget because of the March service changes. The proposed August service changes
will bring the District back on budget. The major proposed changes are:
Route 105 – will go to a 15 minute frequency from a 7 ½ minute frequency. This will

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, May 2, 2007
Page 2 of 5
save $260,000.
BOLT – CMAQ grant that funded the Route BOLT is ending in September. The District
will reduce BOLT service to 15 minute frequency of service during peak periods only.
At other times, it will mirror the old Route M. Cost to the District - $280,000.
Route CC – proposed to discontinue as the boardings are decreasing. Despite
promotions and advertising, ridership has continued to decrease. Eliminating this route
will save the District $370,000.
Route J – Reduce total trips from 12 to 8, cost to the District $83,000.
Route G – Light rail line between 9 Mile and Lincoln. This was included in the original
TREX EIS process. Ridership standards are not being met on the weekends and during
non-peak hours. The proposed service change is to eliminate Saturday/Sunday service.
Customers can travel on the Route H to Southmoor and then transfer to the Route E or
the Route F to get to Lincoln. On the weekdays, evening service would be cancelled
and reducing mid-day service to once an hour. Staff will continue to watch this route.
Currently peak period trips are carrying enough people to meet ridership standards and
there is not enough room on the H line trains to accommodate passengers if the G line
was eliminated. This will save $920,000 for the District.
Route 46 – Reduce frequency to half hour on Happy Canyon Road.
Route 88 – This route goes from Stapleton through Commerce City to Thornton.
Frequency will be increased to 30 minutes and Saturday service will be increased in
frequency as well. Cost to the District - $350,000.
Route P – Two additional trips will be added in the morning and the evening. The
second part of this service change is to eliminate service to the Franktown park-n-Ride.
This is a very small park-n-Ride and there are only 12 boardings from Franktown to the
Pinery. The Route P would then begin and terminate at the Pinery. Cost to the District
- $84,000.
Route 133 – Frequency will increase during peak period hours to 15 minutes.
Englewood Art Shuttle – Staff is waiting to hear from Englewood on whether they will
pick up the fares. If they do, the cost to the District would be $193,000. This would
put the District into a deficit of $193,000 which would be made up with the January
2008 service changes.
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors approve
moving the proposed August 19, 2007 Service Changes on to public review and
comment.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, May 2, 2007
Page 3 of 5
Motion:

Director Kemp made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
May 15, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed
unanimously.

Director Ruchman asked about the FasTracks vote to increase bus service by 1% per
year. Is the District looking to find any additional sources to increase bus service? Bill
Porter responded that currently the 1% service growth in the budget is the FasTracks
money and there are no other funds available to increase service at this time due to the
economy and the growth of paratransit.
II.

Staffing Update – Manny Herrera, Senior Manager, Human Resources gave the staffing
update. The District is at 92% for General Repair Mechanics (14 down), 99% for Bus
Operators (7 down), and -40% for Light Rail Mechanics (20 down). Mr. Herrera
showed the advertisement that ran in the paper and talked about how the job is
“packaged” saying that maybe there is a problem in the way the job is presented. The
District is working with Community College of Denver to train people for the Light Rail
Mechanic position. Currently there are six people in the program.
Director Ruchman asked about the affect of the staffing shortage on the light rail
mechanics.
Lloyd Mack, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations, said that he has been able to
fill his shifts through voluntary overtime. Also, almost 50% of the light rail fleet is
under warranty to Siemens. There are eight Siemens employees on site that are
handling repairs to any light rail vehicle that is still under warranty.

III.

Spring Cleaning at Light Rail Stations/Signage Clean Up at Light Rail Stations – Director
McMullen asked about signage at light rail stations that are outdated. Pat Pugh, Senior
Manager of Marketing, responded that she would get those removed. Director
McMullen asked about light rail stations being power washed, and expressed a
particular concern about the Convention Center Station. Lloyd Mack responded that he
would get it taken care of.
There was a general discussion of who the Board should talk to if there is a problem on
the light rail system that is not at the GMR level. Lloyd Mack said that calls regarding

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, May 2, 2007
Page 4 of 5
anything on the light rail system should come to him. The Board Office can also help
with routing of these issues.
IV.

Addressing Committee Name – Co-Chair Kinton introduced this discussion item and
suggested, Operations/Customer Services as the name for this Committee. The
suggestion was accepted by the Committee.
Motion:
Director Kinton made a
Motion to re-name the
Committee “Operations/
Customer Service”
Second:
Vote on
Motion:

V.

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.
The motion passed
unanimously.

Addressing Problems When Multiple Customers Seem to be in Opposition – Co-Chair
Kinton brought up the examples of Happy Canyon and the Route 46 and an issue with
access-a-Ride disturbing people at 4:00 a.m.
Bruce Abel said that the District attempts to weigh all the perspectives and comes
forward with a recommendation that is appropriate after weighing technical and human
considerations.

VI.

Tracking, Follow Up, and Coordination of Customer Issues – Co-chair Kinton introduced
this item for discussion. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager, Public Affairs, gave
an overview of how customer calls that come into the TIC are tracked and recorded.

VII.

Opportunities to be Proactive in Providing Additional Customer Services and
Coordinating with Our Partners – Co-Chair Kinton spoke to this item. Co-Chair Kinton
has had interactions with the public saying they have contacted RTD and they have not
been contacted in response. A discussion on how to route these requests followed.

VIII.

New Technology Follow Up – Cell Phones, Credit Cards – Bruce Abel reported that
staff is continuing to research issues surrounding TVMs accepting credit cards. At this
time staff is not concentrating on the cell phone technology.

IX.

Other Matters – Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager, Marketing shared that the District
will be participating in a national campaign for Memorial Day honoring Veterans.
Director Kinton asked about the LED signs at light rail stations. Lloyd Mack said that
the signs are still undergoing testing and the last date he heard for going live was May
12, 2007.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, May 2, 2007
Page 5 of 5

Director Kemp asked about hybrid buses. Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager,
Bus Operations responded that the fleet is doing well. They are saving the District
30% on fuel and 15% on Maintenance costs. The District would like to move into
purchasing hybrids for the next purchase of buses.
X.

Next Meeting Date -The next meeting date will be Wednesday, June 13, 2007 at
5:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room.

XI.

Adjournment - Hearing no objections, Co-Chair Kinton adjourned the meeting at 6:36 p.m.

