Jul 9 2019 0530 PM Financial Administration & Audit
Committee
KEN MIHALIK: Meeting to order.
[GAVEL BANGS]
Here at RTD, safety is a core value. And I'll begin with a brief safety moment or safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel
to make that call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to
assist. And if needed, an AED is in the glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the
right.
And in the event we must evacuate the building for a fire or any other reason, please calmly exit
out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor around the
security desk, and exit through the front door, likely the one you came in. Police and security
officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone requiring special assistance in
the event of said evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
And while RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles,
facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops and platforms. As
such, I'd encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app.
We'll talk about that a little more later on this evening. And this allows users to report suspicious
or dangerous activity, and communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a realtime basis in the event of an emergency situation. And this is available on the various app sites.
We have, this evening, two recommended actions. The first reads as such. It is recommended by
the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution
number blank, series of 2019 to amend and appropriate funds for the proposed 2019 amended
budget to decrease the appropriation by $49.1 million to $1,267,000,000 and to decrease the
appropriation of capital carry-forward previously approved capital funds by $140 million to
$579,500,000.
As detailed below in the discussion section of this board report, this recommended action
supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number three of strong financial
management, and test goal number one of fiscal sustainability. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams and Director Whitmore. And Heather, I know
you can summarize this best out of anybody.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So actually, I'm going to have Jannette Scarpino do a summary.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Jannette can summarize it better.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Because she can summarize it even better than I could summarize it.
But she will point out some pertinent information that you need to know before you approve the
budget. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. So let me give you a timeline here. The 2019 adopted
budget was approved in November of last year. Now we amend for necessary changes, and we
reappropriate the budget based on current information. And we begin developing the 2020
budget in August. In fact, we've already started that process.
So your board report, on page six, has a summary of the district-wide appropriation. Now, these
are our operating expenses, debt service/capital expenditures, and fund balances. In total, we are
showing a $189 million decrease to the appropriation for the district, and this is made up of a $49
million decrease to the general appropriation and a $140 million decrease to the capital carryforward.
A summary of the revenue sources for the district you will find on page seven. I'll remind you
that revenue is not appropriated. It is estimated. And these summary tables use exhibit 1 as their
data source. Exhibit 1 is on page 25. And this is where we present the budget in a financial
statement format.
So with respect to operating expenses, on the base system, we are budgeting operating expenses
to decline $7.6 million, and this comes from a $13.6 million intentional reduction that we made
in order to balance the mid-term financial plan. We also made some reductions to the expense
carry-forward in order to correct some dollars there. And this reduction is offset by increases to
expenses in various areas that are largely unavoidable, including repair work, security contract,
increases, processing fees for mobile ticketing. We are also restoring the General Manager's
contingency fund.
For FasTracks project, operating expenses will decrease $27.3 million, and this is due to
corrections, realignment of capitalized salaries, adjustments to project budgets. We are also
transferring the rubber tire service increase from FasTracks project to FasTracks operations
because that's really where it belongs.
For FasTracks operations, the operating expenses will increase $27.8 million. And this is, again,
due to the transfer of the rubber tire service increase from FasTracks project. We are also
restoring about $3.8 million in funding from 2018 for North Metro. And I would refer you to
attachment A on page 16 for the detail of these changes from the adopted to the amended budget.

Regarding new capital, it is summarized on attachment B. And we are showing a combined
increase of $2.6 million from the adopted. This is made up of a $900,000 increase on the base
system and a $1.8 million increase on FasTracks, largely from project expenses on Southeast
Rail extension and North Metro.
The capital carry-forward, it is in the amended budget where we update the carry-forward
balance to the December 31, 2018 actuals. This is summarized on attachment C. We are showing
a decrease of $140 million district-wide due to project changes and completion of projects.
Our major carry-forward projects on the base system-- 16th Street Mall paver repair, Colfax
Avenue transit-priority project, and the purchase of 27 light-rail vehicles for FasTracks. Our
major carry-forward projects are close out of our recent FasTracks projects and North Metro
costs.
I want to talk a little bit about revenue. Because on a combined basis, we are showing a decrease
of $18 million. And this is coming from a lower sales and use tax projection and grant revenue
forecast. And although we are projecting sales and use tax to be up 4.4% over 2018 per the CU
Leeds' March forecast, this forecast is down from 5.6% that we used in the adopted budget. And
this translates to a decrease of $5.9 million from the adopted budget.
Also, grant revenue is down, or we project to be down, $12.3 million from an overall decrease in
federal and state grants offset by increases in capital maintenance grants. Fare revenue, we are
budgeting no change from the adopted. Investment income, no change. And other income will be
up slightly.
So with revenue down, any net increase to expenses in this amended budget will be supported by
other funding sources. And these include a reduction in both expense and capital carry-forward
amounts; release of unspent funds from closure of capital projects; the intentional reduction, as I
mentioned, to the 2019 budgeted operating expenses; deferral of certain projects to the year
2020. And all of this will support any net increase to expenses.
The budget is balanced. We have balanced it out in the mid-term financial plan, which I will talk
about a little bit later. And that is important to note.
The unrestricted year-end fund balance, we are forecasting that to be $19.3 million on a districtwide basis. This is a reduction from the adopted because we are restating it on a cash basis to
match the cash-basis balance in the mid-term financial plan.
So in summary, district-wide, we are seeing a decrease in the overall appropriation of $189
million from reductions in capital carry-forward and operating expenses. We're seeing an overall
decrease to revenue of $18 million, but other funding sources will cover any net increase to our
expenses.
We are seeing an overall decrease to operating expenses of $12 million. Our reserve fund
balances will be stable, and our unrestricted fund balance is restated to $19.3 million. So we will
request approval at next week's board meeting, and happy to take questions.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just one quick one that came up after we talked. In the mid-term financial
plan, it talks about federal grants being recognized as awarded. But here, we show a decline of
$12 million in the amended budget. And you may have touched on this, but just would have
missed it. I wanted to just inquire why we would see less in grant revenue than was recognized.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: The mid-term financial plan is updated for the amended budget, so it
should mirror the budgeted grant revenue. And then we typically increase the grant revenue at a
modest rate in the mid-term financial plan going forward.
We think there's a bit of a slowdown in receipt of grant funding which is causing this decline. A
little bit lower than what we've seen in previous years, but again, we have forecasted it and
mirrored it in the mid-term financial plan.
SHELLEY COOK: So when you say recognized as awarded, it's not necessarily the case that we
have the known amount at that point? I was just trying to figure that part out.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is a correct statement. So when we look at getting our
operating grants and other grants that we get on a regular basis based on our NTD information
that we put in, it's always a couple years in arrears. And also, they adjust the amount of money
that they have available each year through the appropriations piece of it.
So we make the best estimate we can based on things that we are eligible for. So we don't
estimate things that we haven't received in the past or that we're not eligible to receive, but the
amount might actually vary by year based on what we actually get and what Congress actually
appropriates.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks, and thanks for the hard work of paring down these budgets.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Cook. Any other-- yes, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a few quick questions. And I want to thank you all because you
have helped me to understand these budgets and these numbers, and I really appreciate the way
you break these down. So on page seven, on paragraph three, it says-- or not page seven-"reclassify certain capital programs." Can you tell me what that means, is, does?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I'm sorry. What page are you on in your packet?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's packet page seven, and it's in the-JANNETTE SCARPINO: We have charts on our page seven.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, your numbers [INAUDIBLE].

JANNETTE SCARPINO: [INAUDIBLE].
KEN MIHALIK: Ours has a bullet titled 2019 Operating Expense Adjustments.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, that's what you're looking at? OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: OK, all right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And it just says, "reclassify certain capital programs." And I just didn't
know what that meant, and I was hoping you could tell me what that means.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Reclassify certain capital programs.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're looking for it. Sorry.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: We're looking for it, yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Sorry that this doesn't line up.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Where is it on that page?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Um, OK, I just lost it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you know which paragraph it is on that under 2019 operating
expenses?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. I just lost it. I'm looking for it. [INAUDIBLE]. Sorry, I had to
write this stuff down in my notebook and just put a number next to it. I'll move to the next
question because I can't find it, but I am curious as to what that means.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We will look for it and try to answer.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I'm giving you another page. I don't know if this is helpful. It's our
packet page 16.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Is there a heading on the top of the page?
KEN MIHALIK: It starts with the Safety, Security, and Asset Manager.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Got it, yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I was looking at the bus operations, and it looks like there's a
significant reduction in that area. And I just was hoping you could talk me through that.

JANNETTE SCARPINO: Operations. Right, the $1.6 million reduction for bus stops, this was
part of a requested reduction to operating expenses in the 2019 budget in order to balance this
amended budget. We asked for a fairly significant reduction from all departments, and this is
bus's contribution to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's pretty significant compared to-JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, it was a significant request.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, does that-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So can I just-SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if you look at each of the items, you will see that in most areas. So
like under communications, $593,000. Under finance and administration, $3.1. I just want to
mention that's a really high percentage reduction. $600,000 under General Counsel. So in the
percentage of the total operations budgets, it's a very, very, very small percentage.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I guess the reason I asked about it is because I think one of the things that
keeps coming up is that we don't have enough bus operators and mechanics. And so I was just
making sure that what we were approving in terms of our budget reflects our values and what we
say here.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, let me address that. So this is not in personal services. And that
wouldn't be our issue. We have sufficient funds to hire the people. It's a matter of actually getting
those people to apply and then hiring them and retaining them. So this reduction is in operations,
not in salaries, benefits, and wages.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That was my follow-up question, so thank you for anticipating that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Uh-huh.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And, oh, I did want to say thanks-- I don't know if you had anything to do
with it, the roof over at Platte. So when Director Catlin and I went on the tour, that was one of
the things that they talked about. So it's exciting to see that that made it into this budget. So thank
you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, a couple of things on that, just in case anybody else wants to
know. That's been on our state-of-good-repair list for a while.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE].

HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then we were able to apply for some grants last year, and we were
able to actually get a significant grant to help us, which then freed up some money for us to
apply to the other East Metro roof also. So it's a good snowball effect that that happened.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well done. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Much needed.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lewis. I don't see anybody else lined up in the queue, so
we will go ahead and vote. Director Williams, you were the mover. Director Whitmore, you
were the second. And the admitted budget passes-- 14 yeses and one no, the one no being
Director Menten. And we will move on to our second of two recommended actions.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the first amendment to the RTD salaried employees' Defined Contribution or DC
plan, effective January 1, 2014. This recommended action supports the following General
Manager's goals, core goal number three of strong financial management.
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
PEGGY CATLIN: Seconded.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Broom and Catlin. It's all you, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. So I'm not going to go through all the detail because I'll take
questions if there's anything that is confusing. But I wanted to let you know why the Board's
approving this.
So as you know, we have trustees that sit on this particular pension plan. And two of those
trustees are board members-- so Director Broom and Director Lubow. But the Board itself, when
it comes to the salaried pension plan, has the ultimate authority to approve these actions. So I just
wanted to let you know why we're bringing it.
The trustees did approve this unanimously at our last meeting. We feel that the adjustments here
will help the plan financially and has limited impact on the employees in changing the
parameters of the permanent break in service, and also the forfeiting of the money that's in the
escrow accounts and then applying that to cover fees and expenses of the plan, which then
reduces RTD's contribution-- not by a huge amount, but it does reduce it. And we currently have
about $900,000 sitting in these escrow accounts that would be freed up and then could be applied
to use towards those expenses in the plan.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any specific questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Any questions? Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. Has the amount ever gone much over that balance that
was presented?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't know the answer to that. As long as I've been here, it's hovered
around this amount. So remember, it hasn't been out there that long. It's been since 2009. So this
is looking back at the last five years that makes up that $900,000.
Most of the employees have rather small amounts in there because this is just money for
employees that have left before they're vested for the five years. I did look at the list, and there
are 79 former employees that fit into that category. We did look in the past to see how many
times an employee had come back within that five-year period of time, and that has happened
one time since 2009.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And since this is fairly new for us, there is no legal issue where-- and
I'm not claiming to be an expert-- that it would go to the State Treasurer, and the Treasurer has it
in the [INAUDIBLE]-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: --in any way like that? [INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we have a lawyer that supports the trustees. Steve Weinstein is
our attorney there. But no, because this particular money, if you are not vested, you're not
entitled to it. Once you're vested, you are entitled to your share of it. But this is all money where
they're not vested and, per the bylaws, cannot receive the money.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Heather, you're doing a really good job of anticipating
my questions and answering them before I ask you them. So well done, because I was going to
ask about the 79 participants and how often that has occurred in the past few years.
A question that I do have for you is, have you all had conversations with folks that are employed
by RTD about how this impacts them?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. Could you ask that again?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep. So of the folks who work within RTD, I know they wouldn't be
impacted by this. But have you had conversations with current employees and proposed this or
put this proposal forward to them and asked for feedback or input?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. So with current employees, we have not. Now, we are conducting,
once a year, listening sessions and update sessions. So we had the last one-- was it March, I want
to say. I can't remember-- where the trustees were there along with the financial advisors and our

actuarial to answer questions. That had not been done, as I understand, in a very long time, and
we've committed to doing that annually.
But we typically would not present these plan changes to them. These would not affect, again,
employees that are already vested. It'll affect employees that leave before they're vested. But no,
we have not reached out to them and hadn't asked their opinion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm just curious if there's any opportunity to do so because I'd hate to
impact-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, there could be. I mean, there's always an opportunity to do so. I
think, as trustees, that's our job, is to make sure that we're listening to employees, and that we're
bringing back those concerns and then we're disseminating that information once it's approved.
That's why we have trustees that sit on that versus for a vote. So we could do it, but we didn't
have any intent of doing it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'd be interested in you all pursuing that. I also was curious of this
solution. Why this one? So why not one year or two years, three, four, five. How did you arrive
from reducing it from five years to one?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That was the recommendation in looking at the history of when people
left and when they returned.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And so what we looked at is, from a financial standpoint, most of the
people that return return within-- and there's only been one within that 20-year period of time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it's a long time,
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The other thing is it's unique to this plan that they're reinstated once
they return even within that five-year or now the one-year period. So that is unique to this plan.
And so we made this adjustment to be more similar to what the other plans that are like this out
there. It's a very generous plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, last question-- I promise it really is. So within the resolution, there's a
paragraph that's been struck out. And I'm just curious, aside from maybe it saying "Phil A.
Washington"-- and you're obviously not Phil-- why this paragraph was struck out.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Because it doesn't apply to the current General Manager. That was
something that was negotiated for a particular General Manager. And it just was not eliminated
once that General Manager-- the contract that this Board has negotiated with our current General
Managers does not have these provisions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So this is not the most updated one, or it is the most updated one?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, this is the most updated one taking that information out.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And so there's something separate that would apply to General Manager
Genova?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. He has a contract between the Board and himself-SHONTEL LEWIS: That's why this was removed?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --that specifies this, right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Thank you so much.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And these particular items do not apply to his contract.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Because his name's not Phil Washington?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, not only that, but he doesn't get the benefit that Phil got.
[LAUGHS]
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Seeing nobody else in the queue, we will move to a vote.
Director Broom, you remember you were the mover. And Director Catlin, you were the second.
And as before, this passes-- 14 yeses, one no, the one no being Director Lewis. And we will
move on to our handful of updates this evening.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the first update is the second draft of the mid-term financial plan,
which we can now present to you because we have an amended budget information. So with that,
Jannette's going to touch on-- and this will be the base portion of it. We still have some work to
do on the FasTracks portion of it. But Jannette's going to walk you through our latest update.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Is this supposed to work?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It did.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Oh, OK. OK, good. Mid-term financial plan-- as you know, the midterm financial plan is developed separately for base and FasTracks, and then brought together in
a long-term financial plan.
The components-- fiscal management, continued building of reserves, maintain service levels for
bus and light-rail systems, O&M of completed projects, state of good repair of facilities and
equipment, opportunities for a diesel fuel lock. I want to spend a minute here on prioritization of
capital and expense projects. You will be seeing the second draft of the mid-term financial plan.
In this second draft for the base system adds capital and expense project requests identified as
high priority by the executive team.

The second draft is also updated with the amended budget, and the prior $88 million gap that you
saw in the first draft has now been reduced to $32 million over the six-year period. We did that
by eliminating, reducing, or deferring many of the project requests to future years. Sorry. Yeah,
right. [LAUGHS]
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Our variables, our uncontrollable variables-- with respect to sales and
use tax revenue, we have to adjust to lower forecasts. Fuel price volatility, it will be with us from
now until eternity. The futures price is $2.15 for 2020. I got that number yesterday. I think that's
somewhat encouraging. With respect to ridership, we will be reporting on that a little bit later.
The revenue assumptions, we are assuming a 10% fare rate increase in 2022 and 2025 per board
policy. That seemed to be the consensus. Sales and use tax, CU Leeds, their macro forecasts for
economic indicators are generally lower for 2019 compared to earlier forecasts. And here, we
show the baseline forecasts for the six-year period. Then, of course, our chart.
Revenue assumptions-- let me say that with respect to debt financing, we're not issuing new debt
to finance fleet acquisition or construction in the current plan in this second draft. But new debt
may be issued to finance fleet acquisition or construction, and you may see that in the final draft.
Expenditure assumptions-- the inflation rate that we are using on our ongoing expenses is 2.6%
in 2020. We are showing, with respect to the FasTracks mid-term financial plan, O&M of
completed FasTracks corridors, the North Metro commuter rail cost, Eagle cost based on the
concession agreement, and state-of-good-repair needs on the base system. That has not changed
from the earlier draft.
And again, with respect to project and capital expenditures, approximately $32 million of
reductions in projects, both capital and expense, or other expenses will be necessary in the base
system second draft if we cannot identify other funding sources. Our reserve assumptions, we are
maintaining a planned moderate increase to our fund balances for both the base system and
FasTracks.
Our goal is a combined three months of O&M costs in the three reserves. We want these reserve
balances to be sufficient to withstand economic fluctuations. And we have said that the base
system reaches this goal after 2025, but FasTracks maintains this goal through the six-year
period.
And here, of course, is the cash flow. I will point you to line 37, which is the unrestricted yearend fund balance. You can see that it's positive over the time period. I said earlier that we did
balance the amended budget in the mid-term financial plan. And in the first column that reads
Amended Budget, you can see that the unrestricted year-end fund balance, line 37, is $3.2
million. So that tells me the amended budget is balanced.
The mid-term financial plan is balanced. However, if you look at line 6, that is the adjustment
that we will need to make to balance the plan, and it totals $32 million.

So graphically, for the year 2020, base source of funds totals $684.8 million. Base use of funds
totals $682.8 million. The difference of the sources and uses is $2 million, which is the
unrestricted year-end fund balance for the year 2020.
With respect to FasTracks, there are no changes since our previous update when we showed you
the first draft. So we are not showing FasTracks' cash flow this evening. It does need some
additional work.
All of the assumptions listed there are the same, but I will note that the next draft will be
presented when the base mid-term financial plan is balanced, and then we will finalize the
FasTracks mid-term financial plan and present it at that time. Opportunities and challenges. And
finally, next steps.
In August, we will present the next draft of the mid-term financial plan for both base and
FasTracks, and as well as the first draft long-range financial plan. On September 17, we will
present the final drafts as well as the 2020 requested budget.
September 24, we will ask for adoption of the mid-term and long-range financial plans. And then
in November, we will present the 2020 recommended budget for adoption. Are there questions?
Get this away from me.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How long has the district had the policy to increase fares by
10% every three-year period?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: As long as I've been here, which is going on nine years. Can
somebody else speak to that in terms of how long that's been policy?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I wanted to mention first it's not necessary 10%. It's the
accumulation of what inflation would've been over that three-year period, which, since we run
about three to a 3 and 1/3, it just happens to have been lately the 10%.
BOB BROOM: OK, the reason I ask-- I mean, you read in the paper every day that Federal
Reserve is having a terrible time trying to reach 2%. I guess maybe the Denver CPI maybe is a
little higher than the federal.
But you also mentioned that you used 2.6% for future costs increase. So I don't know. Maybe we
should revisit the 10% at some point in time and reaffirm whether that's appropriate or not.
Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And 1988.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Before I go to the subject I signed up to speak for, I'm going to say I
know that in my second year on the Board, we changed the policy from one year every year to
every three years. So that would have been probably 2013 or 2014, that portion changed, just for
your background on that. I did vote no.
But anyway, what I'm wondering is on packet page-- the number's packet page 50. This is the
second draft, and it gives us categories. What would be the best way for me to get line items that
have built these figures?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So you want the detail behind every line item?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That might take a little while, but we-JANNETTE SCARPINO: Probably best for you and I to meet offline. I'd be happy to go through
that with you if that would make some sense. If you want to go through every line item, you bet.
NATALIE MENTEN: Whatever fits your time better. Yes, that's what I would like to see, is
details, please. OK, that is all that I had. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Following Director Broom's comment, you made the
statement that it seemed to be the consensus that every three years, we would raise it 10%. And I
seem to recall that at previous committee meetings, a number of us board members have raised
concerns about that assumption and even asked that we look at scenarios where we did not
assume that increase. And so I'm not sure that the phrase "this seemed to be the consensus" is
accurate because I know a number of us are concerned about those every-three-year fare
increases.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So maybe "consensus" wasn't the right word, but we felt that we heard,
after presenting it last time, that the direction is that we needed to include those every three years
per the current fiscal policy, and then it could be reviewed when the fiscal policy is reviewed
each year in the fall.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. You did say that. I just wanted to remind everybody that it's
not a fait accompli.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. I want to agree with Director Broom and
Director Catlin as well in terms of looking at this 10% increase. It is a real concern.
KEN MIHALIK: Great. Thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Ditto to what everyone has said. That's all I was going to
say.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I always say the same thing. I've sort of wondered if we-- I
understood why we supported moving forward with this, with the mid-term financial plan. But I
think you're hearing it now that there's a lot of concern about raising fares. And certainly, 10%
every three years, at some point, becomes unsustainable.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, it sounds like we have a chance, in a couple of months, to reevaluate that when we look at the fiscal policy. Next, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I want to reiterate the concerns that are being raised. And I
understand that we need to have a balanced budget, and that's important. But I also know that we
are on the upper end of fares nationally, and you can price yourself out of the market. And I
think it's very worrisome to think that our economic model is kind of based on, every three years,
increasing.
And I would love to see a rethinking of that, and I know it's not going to be easy. But who said
this job was easy, really? And I think you're hearing this undercurrent of concern about this
policy that assumes that, every three years, working up the rates. It's troubling. I just wanted to
add that. Thank you.
And I know it's not personal. But I think that's something we need to think about. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if I could just respond to that, we'll be having that conversation
when we do the fiscal policy. But keep in mind, everything that we've shown you in the long
range, which does not balance-- and the midterm does not balance-- includes those 10%
increases. And the FasTracks conversation that we will have coming up, that also includes those
increases.
So if you take away hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue, it will drastically change what
you're looking at. And so that was the conversation we had last time, is that I think we weren't
prepared to go there, especially when we currently have a policy that says we are to include that.
And then once we revisit that policy, which we're expecting to have a lot of discussion about in
October-- and in fact, I think we talked about maybe bringing it sooner so that we could have
that over a series of a couple of months.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You'll get to-- yeah, it may not happen in one month. So we might
need a couple months for that discussion.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Yeah, this may come up again in the ridership update and the pass
program update as well tonight. So we'll see. Director Walker, you're next.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So my recollection, when I got on the Board, was that we were in the
midst of a five-year period where we did not increase fares at all or change fares at all. In the last
two times we voted on fares, we reduced fares for a good number of our customers, both times in
2015 and this last go-round.
So while it's painful for a lot of people to face a fare increase, that's not all we do. We've also
decreased fares. Our fares are expensive, and I see folks get on the bus where I get on, and they
get off a few blocks later. And $3 is a lot of money for a mile ride or two-mile ride, and I
understand that.
But I've lived in a few cities, and I can't think of one where there's almost 24-hour service and
where somebody can go from end to end of the metro district without having to pay another fare,
because most districts aren't as large as we are. So not everybody needs to take advantage of that,
but it's there. And that's something that we need to consider.
And like Miss McKillop said, we have a system that we have to maintain and run. And there are
a lot of systems in this country that don't have the money, and they have to cut service because
they don't have the revenue. Some components of their systems aren't in the state of good repair
because the revenue isn't there.
So while I understand the concern about raising funds, we provide a lot of service all day long
for that revenue. So I just wanted to give another perspective. I understand that's hard. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you're next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you, Heather and Jannette. This is
always a difficult situation, and thank you for doing this work. It's incredibly difficult, and I
appreciate your effort.
When you think about raising a fare assist arbitrarily, 10%, whatever the rationale behind it is,
10%, but wages don't go up commensurate to that for the people who are working, struggling
folks, to use our services. On the other hand, some people are more affluent and can afford the
full fare.
And so it seems to me a balance, and it seems that that's really where the housing crisis comes
from as well. Wages aren't going up commensurate with the increase of housing. So your wages
went up 5% over the last five years. Housing cost went up 70%.
And I think it might be prudent for you guys to come back to us and show us what the budget
actually looks like with no fare increase because it's just I think something to consider. I do think
there is a balance there, and there are places where they could afford an increase of even more
than 10%, maybe. But then, that then supports people who can't afford it.
There's a restaurant in Denver called the SAME Café. It stands for So All May Eat. Have you
heard of it?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's on Colfax near Race. And if you can't afford to eat-- I mean, you can't
afford to pay for your meal, it's free. But you can wash dishes. You can sweep the floor. You can
do something else. But the people who can afford it pay the full fare, or even more to pay it
forward.
And so I don't think that's a model that works here, but there is a balance where those who can't
afford to pay more should. And then that supplements the people who can't. And it's not because
they're lazy and they don't work. It's because their wages aren't going up with the expense of
living overall-- transportation, health care, housing, food, et cetera. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Director Folska, we presented that a couple months ago, what it
would look like without those two fare increases. So we can send that out again to the Board so
they can review that information again.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: What was the new situation [INAUDIBLE]?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: And amended budget.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, with amended budget. Yeah, we could do that too.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Great. Thank you. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. I couldn't resist to add my voice and agreement with the idea that we
not just accept automatically. But last time this came up, we talked about maybe tweaking the
assumption to mean not just say we'll have an increase, but maybe a fare revenue increase not
necessarily accomplished by way of a fare increase. But that didn't sound like that would work
for your projections.
But I still think ridership presents, in the words of a friend of mine, low-hanging fruit in some
cases, some places, for some significant level of increase in revenue. And we're seeing that, the
potency of that, with the fare revenue increases we're seeing in spite of system-wide decreases in
ridership. And I think that's attributable mainly to the commuter rail, if I'm not mistaken.
So just focusing on that and developing a strategy for increasing or optimizing those revenues
where they might be available, I'd like to see that alongside the assumption that you're carrying
forward about the fare increases, if we have to do those. So thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if I could just add, we have done that calculation of what type of
ridership increases would need to take place to make up for that revenue. So we can present that
information. It's significant.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I think that-- and Heather would agree, and
Director Malpiede-- that a lot of this work was done as part of the past program working group
that led up to what is now the LiVE program. A lot of these numbers were crunched and
presented and reviewed by a large group of people who were highly vested in this.
And I think that we have to give the program a chance to get its feet on the ground and get rolled
out and to the community until we actually get to see how some of this plays out, how the fares
that we have now and the discounts that we are offering work. And I think that we will also see
some effects in ridership based on that. But we need to give the program a chance to get started,
and it hasn't done that yet.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Heather, in all your years in working in a position like you are
now, what has been your tactics when you had people asking and asking and asking to do
something and you had to give them a decision on what they would cut to get what they wanted?
How have you dealt with that in the past?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Wow. That's a loaded question. There's a series of way of doing it. We
can offer alternatives to get there. And then ultimately, we have to just make those reductions
where we think it's best if we don't come out.
We had a similar situation going forward this time. We asked, as somebody mentioned, what's
that reduction from? We asked everybody to voluntarily make reductions to their expense
budget. We got so much money doing that.
And then I had to go back in and say, this is what we're going to do. Any project that hasn't
started yet this year, we're going to defer to 2020, and those type of things. And so it's a
combination of a decision-making process that we work through with SLT and then we bring to
the Board and share with you about how we went ahead and did that.
But these are relatively small amounts of money that we had to deal with this year even though
it's $20 or $30, $40 million. When we're talking about making up revenue, if we don't do fare
increases, that's going to be a significant change.
NATALIE MENTEN: Mhm. Yeah, and I get a little bit worried, and I've been doing some
analysis on my own, looking at 2012 versus 2018 at our numbers, looking at the coffers, putting
the ridership numbers together, especially because of the next discussion we're going to have on
the agenda, and what is that. And we can have that discussion in a minute or so.
But more and more of the cost of doing business is being shifted to the taxpayer with the fare
increases. And I just know that if we do come forward with the wish to not increase fares, that
will be a substantial change at RTD. So I'd like to see-- I don't ask you to do it now.
But in my own head, I would just love to see. Go ahead. What is this list? What would you like
to choose? Because I know we walk away from our board retreat going, want, want, want, want,

want. And that's not how the world works. So that's my comment. And if you'd like to respond,
go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I'll just add another point to it that we are embarking on this T2
process, which we're hoping to get a lot of input from the public on. And hopefully, that will help
drive too where we put our resources, which will then give us a better idea of what those
resources need to be and maybe some other options of how to generate those resources.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to respond back, having looked at a couple of the companies
that did these T2-type projects around the country. And I think the gist I got out of these large
comprehensive plans was service cuts. And I saw it today in an earlier meeting that some of the
board members had for an open public meeting, that some people think that T2 might lead to
more bus service. I don't think so. I think it's going to lead to trimming, and that might be just the
right plan. But there. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you'll have the last word on this update.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Mihalik. Heather, just-- I will forget this,
and it's probably not the right time to say it. But when you mentioned the T2 and other
stakeholders' input, I think that our Citizen Advisory Committee needs to be a very meaningful
piece of that, like a pillar. That's all. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And there's going to be some overlap with all these updates
tonight. So we'll move on to the ridership update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, so on the ridership update, we have, for the last couple months,
not included it in the monthly financial report, in particular because of light-rail numbers. We
were concerned that we were seeing a pretty dramatic decrease from the previous couple years
on light-rail ridership.
And so because we had changed our methodology for measuring ridership, going to automated
passenger counts versus a process by which we extrapolated a lot of information from a lot of
different databases, we wanted to make sure that that information was indeed accurate.
So we have spent several months-- I use "we" loosely. Susan and Doug and their Service
Planning team has spent numerous months reviewing all the information, trying to validate that
information against our automated passenger accounts, also using the process that FTA approved
for us to use to determine ridership based on APCs that we just got certified in, and also, as
they'll briefly explain, validating that against other information that we have, such as Park-nRide counts, TVM sales at light-rail stations, smartcard taps at light-rail stations, et cetera.
So unfortunately, at this time, it appears that the information supports the fact that light-rail
ridership is down about 14% over this time last year. And so with that, I'm just going to turn that
over briefly to Susan to discuss a little bit. And then I'm sure there are plenty of questions that
we're going to have.

SUSAN COHEN: I'm Susan Cohen. As Heather mentioned, when we started, we started out
looking at our first full-district APC counts for February ridership. We noticed that light rail was
down significantly. And other modes-- bus, commuter rail, Flatiron Flyer-- were not.
And we were concerned, at the time, that we were having an issue with the APCs. We've spent
the last three months with a group, including Service Planning and the Service Development who
are responsible for processing the data. And we looked, first of all, at different APC data.
Also, we were required, as part of the certification that Heather mentioned, to do manual counts
to compare to APC counts. In order to get certified, you have to be within 5%. Your APC count
has to be within 5% of your manual count. And we've been passing that. We've been doing some
of those as well this year. We've been passing those.
We also looked at other data. We looked at the tap counts for smart card at different stations and
on the buses. We looked at the sales at our ticket vending machines on light rail versus commuter
rail versus Flatiron Flyer. We've also looked at Park-n-Ride usage.
And we're seeing pretty much the same trends in all of them. Even with a fare increase, we're
seeing a decrease in sales at ticket vending machines on light rail while, for the same time
period, we're seeing increases on commuter rail. We were seeing increases even before the G
Line. And we're seeing increases on the Flatiron Flyer. We're also seeing increases on smart card
of smartcard taps on Flatiron Flyer, on commuter rail as well, and on just fixed-route bus.
We've also noticed decreases in Park-n-Ride usage on light rail. This one's a little different in
that we have also seen some decreases in parking at just regular fixed-route bus Park-n-Rides.
But we are seeing increases in commuter rail and at the Flatiron Flyer Park-n-Rides.
And in your packet, we have some trend graphs. We looked at ridership trends over time, and we
noticed light rail is going down, if you notice in the picture, the graph-- what page is that? The
first graph of the charts, you see there's a trend of light rail going down while commuter rail is
going up. There's a huge jump from April to May of 2019 for the G Line. But you can see, even
before the G Line, ridership was generally going up on commuter rail.
Fixed-route bus, over the past couple of years, we had seen decreases. Those have leveled off
and are increasing slightly. We also were seeing increases on the Flatiron Flyer. The one service
where we are seeing similar decreases is the mall shuttle, where we had some significant service
changes.
We have, in the packet, some charts of comparisons of ridership by mode, station activity by
mode, Park-n-Ride usage by mode, both in graphs and in numbers. And we are doing more
analysis to see what to look at, reasons for changes. And Heather will speak to those.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So as you can imagine, we're trying to figure out why. And
unfortunately, it's not just one answer, probably. There are some interesting things. The first
thing we looked at was to see if there had been an enrollment change at Auraria Campus because

they're a huge feeder of our light rail. And there has been no significant decrease in enrollment at
Auraria.
We also looked at trip length to see whether there was noticeable change, which can mean that
certain types of trips were more adversely impacted than others. And that was not the case.
We did look at the customer satisfaction survey that Jeff presented to you. I believe it was last
month. And so there are a few things there that we wanted to point out. One is on-time
performance on the train. We did see a decrease between the satisfaction level in the 2017 survey
versus 2019.
And also in light rail, the value received for the fare paid seems to be a bigger issue than on
commuter rail or bus, meaning as the price elasticity is less on light rail than it is-- or it's greater
than it is on commuter rail or bus. And so we also looked at-- we have seen an impact of
reducing seating on light-rail trains due to the ADA retrofit. And we have approximately 82% of
that fleet completed with the new seat configuration. So that might add to it.
One of the other things that we looked at was in the customer service survey, it looked at lightrail riders tend to be more affluent. They tend to own vehicles, where bus and even commuter
rail riders, not as much. And so they could be more impacted by those factors of value for money
and on-time performance.
So we are looking at all of those things combined. The interesting part is we have seen car
ridership grow significantly over the years, but it is actually down, car sales down for the first
four or five months of this year. So that doesn't align necessarily with that.
And the other thing is gas prices have gone down significantly in the last few months, which
typically means that people will drive more. But again, that's nor a direct correlation. So we have
not been able to find anything that's a direct correlation to these numbers, but we have
information, anecdotal information I just shared with you, that we are looking at to see if we can
pinpoint how to make adjustments to change that trajectory of ridership on light rail.
It is going to take time for us to further investigate it, and we will probably be having this
discussion every month now in the monthly financial plan as we present those numbers to you in
that document each month. So I'll be glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. There's a-- well, it keeps growing. I just want to jump in before
it gets too long. There was so much modeling-- I can't see you. There was so much modeling
done with the pass program group. You guys ever go back and validate or, I guess, unvalidate
those models based on this particular data?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have not done that yet, but that's one of the things we'll look at,
is the information that Four Nines as a result-- I'm assuming you mean as a result of the fare
increase and the impact on ridership.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we will go back and look at that. We haven't looked at that
exactly. I think what's interesting, though, when you look at it, is that the most expensive fare
that we have is on commuter rail, and our numbers are up significantly.
The next most expensive change that was made was on local service, and bus is predominantly
local service. And it's up slightly instead of going down. And so those are not consistent,
necessarily, with the way we modelled it. We expected, since regional fare was not high as a
percentage increase, that we wouldn't see the differences there. But we're going to go back and
examine that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, some other-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's not consistent with what we expected.
KEN MIHALIK: --some other externalities other than just that price.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Folska, you'll lead us off.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, it seems to me one of the factors, the
variables that hasn't been discussed tonight, is climate change and weather. So when you talk
about February, we had that bomb cyclone. Then in March, we had another bomb cyclone. I've
never heard of that before.
Now, we're being barraged with hailstorms and thunderstorms in the afternoon. And so people
might be thinking, hey, I might just drive. But the trains, the commuter rails and the Flatiron
Flyer, they go from DIA. They have really nice coverage. And then they go into Union Station,
and that's a protected area. And certainly, the Flatiron Flyer goes into Union Station underneath,
underground. So it's much more protected area.
And I'm also curious. How do you count the boardings and alignments on the shuttle?
[INAUDIBLE].
SUSAN COHEN: They have automatic passenger counters on them, on all the vehicles as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So we went from, like, 25,000 a day to what?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let me look it up real quick.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll jump in. We're about 42,000 a day on the mall shuttle, day average.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK-- 25 on the weekend. I'm sorry. Wasn't it 25 on the weekend?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So just as an example, we had-- let's see. Let's use May-- or June. I'm
sorry. June of 2018 was 928 boardings.
SUSAN COHEN: Thousand.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry, 928,000 boardings. And May of this year, 865,000. So we
have seen those go down a little bit.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So May might have been a nice month, and people say, hey, I'll walk, get
my Fitbit steps in, or something-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, February's down.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: --when the weather-- huh?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: February was down from last February, yeah. But it's true-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We had the bomb cyclone. Man, I wouldn't be out in public transit. So I
mean, we had some severe weather events here. And I think it might be good to think about that
too. That's all.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we'll take that into consideration. I'm not sure. We'll have to
look at different ways that we can maybe try to measure that and see what that impact was. And
we might be able to do that by specific times of day and weeks that those particular events
happened.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I mean, we have the almanac, right?
[LAUGHS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you, Director Folska. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Would it be difficult to ask people to do a survey
about what's happening on light rail?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we just completed our customer service survey, which included
light rail.
JUDY LUBOW: But things have changed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, not since that survey was done in March/April. That's when we
were seeing the decreases. So we have not talked about just doing a light rail-specific survey.
And remember, that survey was of our customers that were riding.

So the issue could be what we're missing is the people that were riding that are no longer riding.
And so that's difficult to get through a customer survey in that we're surveying people that are
still riding, which they're happy. And so therefore, they're still riding. And so I don't know that
we know how to get to that number.
DAVE GENOVA: We are looking at ways to get more non-rider information.
JUDY LUBOW: That would be great. And I would think maybe just going to the colleges might- just talking to the kids, you might get some answers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, on that point-- let me just-JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We had a meeting [INAUDIBLE]-- it keeps getting moved. But we
have a meeting set up to have a conversation about what would it look like to do a survey of our
EcoPass and CollegePass holders because those people get a free pass to any of our services.
And why are those particular people not using the service if they have the ability to access free
service?
So that's one of the things that we're currently working with Jeff that did the presentation to you
on how we might be able to do that, because we do have pretty good access to those people
through the coordinators in each of those businesses and in the colleges. And so that's kind of a
built-in group of people that-- because if we can figure out why they're not riding and they have
access to a free service, then maybe we can figure out why other people are not riding also.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I think that's a good first step. But I think it would also be useful to try to
reach other people. And I was also wondering do we happen to know if, at the same time that
light rail is going down, that there's been some increase in Uber and other of those transit
management organizations.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have looked at TNCs. And in particular, we looked down in the
downtown corridor because there was a recent survey done by downtown-- no, Was it tourism,
or-DAVE GENOVA: Partnership.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --Downtown Denver Partnership that showed that Uber usage
downtown is significantly small. And so we're not actually seeing those numbers here compared
to what we're seeing in other cities that are having huge, like 10%, 20%, 30% impacts, like San
Francisco and Boston and some of those other areas from the TNCs. Our seems to be much
smaller, although it probably has had an impact on ridership as those services continue to grow.
JUDY LUBOW: Mhm.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think one thing-- I'll just put a plug in. We just celebrated our tickets
being sold on the Uber app. We've exceeded 1,000 tickets sold, and they just got to 100%
penetration last week, I believe it was. That is 1,000 people that open the Uber app to take Uber
who bought an RTD ride instead.
And so we think that's a very positive thing, and that if we can continue those partnerships with
other third-party providers, that will help. It's not going to solve this problem, but I just wanted
to mention that, that is a place where we actually have tangible information that somebody
opened that app to take Uber and instead purchased a ticket to ride us.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, and that's great. I guess I'm just thinking also that there are people that
know why they're not taking it. We're just having trouble figuring out how to ask them. But there
are people who know why they're changing, and we need to ask them. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Williams, I'll acknowledge you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm following along Director Lubow's path here.
But I think there's some things we could do. Like, we could give incentives, like green stamps.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Like, if you ride 10 times, you get a pass to Water World. Or if you-- I
mean, seriously, if we're trying to get people to ride and people are just not riding, then why don't
we incentivize them to ride? And a great example would be on the Uber app. If you buy your
ticket on the Uber app, you got 10% off.
I mean, it's such old school, incentivizing people, that we maybe should look at that. I know
there's costs involved, and we're all being very cost-conscious. But it's worth it to get 10 riders
paying fare to give them 10% off because that's 90% that we didn't have beforehand. So I'd just
like to throw that out there, mentioning no names-- Pauletta-- and see if there are things-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I actually can address that one.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ooh.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have had that conversation, significant conversations around
incentives. Our problem is we don't know necessarily the people that are riding, right? So I don't
know that it's the same person riding every time.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, no, no, I don't want to give-- you're already riding. Good for you. Yeah,
I want to incentivize people who are not riding. So we want to go to-- I don't know-- to Park
Meadows, is probably a really great place to find a lot of people who are not riding, and have a
little booth there, and give them those cool little flashlights that you point that the train is on the
other end of-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll look at that.

KATE WILLIAMS: --and say-- you know. I mean-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Because we've talked about, like, not green stamps, because I don't
know how many people know what S&H Green Stamps. You're dating a lot of us-KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --in the room.
KATE WILLIAMS: I did not say S&H Green Stamps. I just said green stamps.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well-KATE WILLIAMS: It's a new app that you get when you turn 12.
[LAUGHS]
But we have talked to incentivizing. We've talked it more about, like, a frequent rider program
like you get at Starbucks if you buy so much. And I think our problem now is we can't keep track
of those people, necessarily.
But when we go to our new system, it's one of the things that we've discussed to determine to be
in a scope of work or future phase of how can we then keep track of them so we can offer
incentives. You've taken so many rides. You get one right free. You've taken this, and you get
something.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so we have a base of people to do that. There's something called the
Nonprofit Pass Program where there are-- how many of those did we do? $700,000 or
something? That's a great place to do incentivizing because you already have those participants,
and then they now know that their kids and their husband and their brother, and they get perks.
That's all. Sorry. Thanks. Bye.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I have it on my list.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks, I'm wondering if you've considered the age of the persons in the
Census tracts that surround or are near the light-rail stations. They tend to be in the south. Most
of them are in the south part of the city. And that's the part that has the densest part of the
population in the metro area.
And a lot of the baby boomers are hitting 65, I know. And a lot of companies are concerned
about that Silver Tsunami. So I'm wondering if it's just a lot of retirees that live in the southern
part of the district that are causing this. That's my guess.
SUSAN COHEN: Based on age groups. We don't [INAUDIBLE].

HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. We have not looked at that. And right now, it looks like we
wouldn't have that data other than comparing it against our customer survey information to see
how that comes out. But we can discuss what that might look like.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, OK. And I know that retiring folks cause havoc on the economy because
they don't spend money like they did when they were employed full-time. And they don't need to
ride anymore. Anyway, so that's all.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Although I heard this morning, most of us are going to have to work to
75 before we retire. So we might be riding it more and more.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I don't plan to retire at all.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The commuter rail graph on page 60 shows a steep spike in May. Is that
the G Line?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the same graph and the next graph on fixed-route buses starts to
show a drop. Does it look like the G Line is cannibalizing bus service in that area?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: We don't have data at that level at this point to be able to tell that.
However, usually, our ridership is seasonal. And as you get into end of May, June, July, August,
you start seeing schools out of session. So we typically-LYNN GUISSINGER: So there's a natural drop.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yeah, if you look at the same graph and look at June, July, August the
previous year, you see it kind of dips at that point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And are we looking at the commuter rail line separate from that too to
see how we're doing aside from adding the new line?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes. In your packet in the monthly financial status, we have it broken
down by line for commuter rail. And Doug will talk to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Where is that?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: It's in the monthly financial status on--

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Last page.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And also, we have this light rail drop broken up by line somewhere?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'll look for that again. Thank you. And did I hear you say that the
Park-n-Ride-- or maybe I was just drawing this conclusion from the amount of people using it on
the fixed rail. But the Park-n-Ride users, is it fair to draw the conclusion that they tend to be
more affluent, more car owners? Well, obviously, they have more car owners. Have we ever
looked at who uses our Park-n-Rides? I'll ask it differently.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't know. I'd have to check on that to see if our Parking Group has
looked at-- if they have any information regarding that. So I can't really answer that right now,
but we'll look into it for you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It looks like the fixed service has a lot less Park-n-Ride use, though,
right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: All right. Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. And just a couple of things. The first
one is this really makes me think about first and last-mile connections. And when I'm on the 16th
Street Mall, I am seeing exponentially so many more scooters. And I'm wondering if that might
have an impact.
You might say, well, it's downtown. But I'm seeing them in Northwest Denver, in South Denver.
And I wonder what that is doing in terms of folks utilizing that for shorter distances and not
getting on a bus.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yeah, we'd actually consider that same, and that's why we did
specifically look at that average trip length to look to see if we were losing short trips to scooters.
We may be losing some short trips to scooters, but our average trip length is pretty much the
same. So we're losing them all over the board, yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. The second thing is I'm wondering, at Auraria, how many
students maybe are opting out of the EcoPass program, or is it just a mandate that it's part of their
registration fee. It is?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, it is a mandate. They can't opt out.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then I guess my last thing is talking about going and talking
to folks who are not using all of our services, is that maybe perhaps we need to think outside of
the box a little bit and use a web panel which really does some concentrated effort in getting
people to be very candid. And it's an easier way to collect data rather than doing focus groups
and those stuff.
And there are businesses and organizations that are experts in that area. So I would just like to
suggest that. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Folska, before I get to you, I'm going to jump to the
two that have not spoken yet, I don't think. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a quick question. So you talked about the seating reductions for
the ADA compliance. And I wondered-- I'm trying to think of how to ask this question. But with
the L Line, it was reduced I think from maybe three cars to one car, or maybe two cars to one
car. I can't recall. There's one car. I do know that for sure, yeah.
And I'm curious if this may have an impact as folks are seeing their trains are more full because
you have less seating and people are choosing to not ride because they're having the stand up or
having to take an alternative route. Have you all looked into that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Dave do you want to try to answer that one? I'm going to pass the mic.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, thanks.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. It's Dave Jensen, AGM over at Rail Operations. I'll take a shot
at that one. So far, that's something that we would look at to see how many standees we have per
car. So we've got a certain board-authorized number, and we haven't seen anything to exceed that
number. There's nothing to indicate to us that, on the L Line in particular, that ridership warrants
additional equipment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I asked about the L Line specifically because I've gotten a lot of
constituent phone calls about the L Line. So that's the reason I ask. But maybe it just makes
sense for us to ride together.
DAVE JENSEN: If so, if there's specific trains at specific times, we would absolutely look at
those to see if ridership is-- that's what we'd like to find out, that ridership has climbed on that.
But right now, the numbers that we're seeing don't indicate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And then Heather, for you, I'm just thinking about
demographics in which we can focus on. And one of the opportunities I think that we miss is the
focus on the youth. While we may not be able to reap those rewards today, if we teach that
behavior, maybe that's something that we can do. Of course, I have to speak in that lens because
I work in education, and people would probably kill me if I didn't.

And then our immigrant and refugee populations, we talked about the-- what is it called? The
trainer? The transit-KATE WILLIAMS: Travel training.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Travel training, yeah. And if there's opportunity-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. If there's opportunities to partner with immigrant and refugee
communities and support them in teaching that behavior as well-- and that's based on an
assumption that that's a demographic we need just to tap into.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just in response to Director Guissinger's questions, one thing to remember is
that the service changes associated with the G Line startup have been delayed until the August
service changes. So we have two and maybe three duplicative routes-- the 55L, the 72L. They
lost all their ridership, but they all went to the train.
And the reason that we have those and see a decline, I think, is because of that effect, at least in
part. The overall effect, I think, has been a great increase based upon the ridership on the G Line.
In comparison to what those bus lines were carrying, we're seeing a lot of new riders.
The one I do think we have to worry about is the B Line. I think I was going to ask you about
whether we can just pay close attention to that because I think some of the Arvada people were
zipping over and using the B Line. So I thought some of the decline we saw in the B Line might
be a result of people going closer to home, so anyway.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, it seems to me that, sort of taking off
from what I think is a very insightful point from Director Walker regarding this senior tsunami, I
mean, we have a lot of senior affordable housing along our light rail stations, and they're not
commuting to work, right? Most of them are retired. And they go to the theater. They go here or
there, but they're not commuting every day.
And if the affordable housing along the light rail is for senior citizens and not our teachers and
policemen and firemen who do commute to work, then I think we're going to continue to see a
decline on the light rail. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Could you please remind me when we'll be getting the
performance family report?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you guys know? We need to check on it. It's supposed to come out
later this month, but I don't have an exact time for you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And speaking for the constituents, many in my area, they would
rather not see another cost shifted to them to lower the cost for others because it makes them
choose to steer away from, perhaps, public transit. So giveaways, further subsidies, which I've
seen grow from looking at 2012 to 2018-- those are the figures I was talking to you about earlier.
They continue to grow dramatically.
And I can speak for constituents where Golden sent us a letter. They're upset about their fares,
long-going story. But people don't want to continue to give up more for somebody else if it's all
about behavior change. It should be about choices. And taking somebody's money to give it to
somebody else limits their choice.
So I'm not speaking to you directly. I'm just trying to just balance the scales here a little bit.
That's all I was trying to say. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. To Director Cook's point, anecdotally, I've had some of my
constituents tell me that they have shifted from using the W Line to the Gold Line because it's
not that much of a leap to go to the end-of-line station in Wheat Ridge once you're-- like, in the
mountain communities when you're coming from I-70, you can stay on I-70 rather than go to 6th
Avenue or the Taj Mahal.
So there has been a shift from some of the light rail. And you don't break this down by line,
particularly-- or I don't know if you have that information. But I think there has been a shift from
light rail to commuter rail.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we'll have-DAVE GENOVA: It's packet page 84.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Packet page 84.
DAVE GENOVA: But we'll get there during the final update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Doug's going to talk about that. So we have it by line, and we'll
provide that for you every month by line.
[INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Those-- oh, if I could interrupt. Those might be an interesting group to
survey. Is it just a matter of getting it, or is there something about the ride? Is it the level

boarding? Is it smooth, or something like that. That might be an interesting piece of the ridership
to survey.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's the time, mhm.
KATE WILLIAMS: Maybe.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'm sure there'll be lots more questions, maybe more questions than
answers over the next however many months. But I do want to think that-- I wonder if we wait
until the next fare change discussion before we address this, or if we have the ability to do
something in advance of that if we keep seeing certain trends. So that's just my commentary.
We will go on to the next update. This is the May financial status report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I'm going to have Doug speak to this. We did pass this out. And
again, I apologize that the packet that is in yours did not include the sales tax information, but we
just received it last night due to the holiday. So we didn't have it for presentation in your packet,
and so we wanted to make sure you did get it. So we have provided the handout, and we will
have it electronically available also for the packet update.
That is probably going to occur for a while now, especially when we have holidays, in that the
state has adjusted their reporting because they get sales tax information from two different
sources. And so especially with the holiday, it delayed the reporting to us until yesterday. So
luckily, we got it in time for today's meeting. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Doug, and
he can walk through it.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, and good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. So on the first page,
we'll go through sales and use taxes. So it's pretty much continuing the same trend that we've
seen for the 2019 approved budget. The forecast that was used for sales and use taxes, well, it's a
5.6% increase over prior year.
What you'll see with our next financial statement update, after the budget's approved this month,
is the amended budget, which includes the re-forecasted sales and use taxes that we got in
March. Those will be at a 4.4% increase.
So based on the results that we've been seeing for the first several months, as Leeds School of
Business did their new forecast in March, they saw a trend a little bit lower than what they were
expecting back in September. So they revised their forecast down from a 5.6% increase to 4.4%.
So what we're looking at here is it still has the 5.6% increase in the budget.
So you can see, year to date, we're below budget by 1.6%, which is a shortfall of about $4
million. We are up, year over year, 3.3%. So it's still good that we have an increase, just not quite
where we wanted to be.

Moving on to ridership, so we've talked a lot about this in the previous discussion, but I would
refer you to-- it's actually the second to the last page where we break it down between mode and
also by line. So here, this will give you a better sense of what the changes have been versus the
prior year. So you can at least see the activity by month.
And it's hard to look at a trend month to month because there's different numbers of days. There's
seasonality, as was discussed previously with schools being out. But what you can see, in the far
right column, is the percentage change year over year by line.
So as you can see up at the top, the total of bus service, including the Flatiron Flyer but
excluding the non-revenue service, such as mall shuttle, which is down at the bottom, bus service
is actually up 1.3% year to date, year over year. And then you can see all of the light-rail lines
broken down, and there's some significant decreases by year. Some of them are upwards of 20%,
23% below where we were last year for a total, in light rail, of a 13.7% decrease through five
months, year over year.
And then moving down you, can see the breakout of commuter rail, and you can see that G Line
came in in April. So these are in thousands too. So G Line, there's a line for that-- 17,000 riders
in April, 170,000 in May. So that's contributing to some of that 13.5% increase over in the far
right every year for commuter rail.
And then you can see our total revenue service. This is that negative 1.8% decrease that you saw
on the board memo for the ridership discussion for light rail. The main driver of that, of course,
is the 13.7% decrease in light rail. And then moving down, you can see our non-revenue service- small shuttle, Access-a-Ride, Vanpool, et cetera-- for a total decrease in ridership of negative
2.6%. But anyway, that would give you a better sense.
And there was a question too about if there's a shift between light-rail riders using commuter rail.
We'll have to do a little bit more research on that. It's really difficult to tell here because we have
the introduction of the G Line coming in. And we have some swings month to month. So we'll
take a look at that and get back to you.
The final item of the three key factors that we look at is fare revenue. So referring back to the
front page, you can see how our fare revenue's performing. We are 9/10 of a percent under for
the month, and 3.7% under budget year to date. So that equates to $2.3 million shortfall in
revenue.
I would point out that we didn't know when the G Line would open. So we did anticipate that
opening earlier in the year. So some of that budget shortfall is due to the G Line opening later
than we had anticipated in the approved budget.
But what you can see over on the far right, we're in the green year over year-- so 9.8% increase
May this year versus May last year in fare revenue, and a 4.8% increase year to date. The big
difference between the 9.8% and the 4.8% is because we've got the G Line and SERE that came
into effect in April and May. So that sums it up for my remarks, and we'd be happy to take any
questions.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Doug. Do we look at how online buying affects our
sales and use tax? And if we are looking, are we involved in lobbying toward that kind of-- I
mean, I don't know about the rest of the room, but I buy everything on Amazon, me personally.
So I'm just wondering if we have any involvement in that.
There's a lot of talking going on. I'll just keep talking until you guys are ready. I can fill it in. I
can sing. You want to hear a solo?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, we're debating which line it was. Yes. So it's had a positive impact
on our sales and use tax. We were just saying that this time over last year, we have seen a 52%
increase in sales tax attributable to online stores. And that's really as a result of the change in that
the online retailers now need to remit or advise you that you must remit a use tax. So we've seen
that number go up quite a bit.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Was there a change in methodology when you were
compiling the ridership on light rail?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, there was not, not year over year. And that's a good question because
one of the things we considered is we began our APC gathering of data back at the beginning of
2018. And we're comparing 2019 results versus 2018. So one of the concerns we had was we
were checking the most recent activity at light-rail stations, smartcard taps, et cetera, to try to see
if our most recent taps were correct or our most recent ridership was correct.
Then we realized, well, what if 2018 was too high and it was being measured incorrectly? We
went back, and we verified the same data, and we verified that that was-BOB BROOM: So we're comparing apples to apples.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't remember when-- it might have been in the May service change
of last year. But there was kind of a switch between the C and the D Line where we increased
later-night service on the C and decreased it or reduced the late-night service on the D. Do you
remember when that was?
And the reason I'm asking is because I'm wondering if this has any effect, if that action had any
effect on these numbers. Because the C and D are down a lot.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll have to check on that. Right now, they're both down
significantly, 20%. But we'll check on when that transition was made. I can't remember off the
top of my head.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I don't either. I want to say it was around last spring.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But we'll check on that for you.
JEFF WALKER: OK, that's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. It was mentioned before that we've been having
some issues with the mall shuttle because we look like we're having a reduction in ridership in
there. Could you talk about that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So actually, the decrease in the mall ridership last fall coincides with a
reduction in service on the mall shuttle last year. And then we have seen that steadily increasing
since that reduction took place. So we saw a sharp decrease in ridership, and now we've seen that
trending back up again to where it was prior to that change in service.
DOUG MACLEOD: And if I may, that was just during the lunchtime. So we scaled back the
headways a little bit during the lunchtime peak based on the ridership we were seeing during
lunchtime peak and the capacity we had. And so the numbers continue to rise. So we're watching
that closely.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, excellent. Thank you. And it was nice to hear that we have a 52% increase
in internet sales use tax. Is that beyond what was expected? And I'm just wondering. I mean, is
that a silver load that we can all ride off into the sunset now with all that money?
[LAUGHTER]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I wish. I mean, there have been a variety of studies done on online
sales in Colorado and what that number would look like. It's significant state-wide.
We have continued to see it rise. I don't think it's near where it should be if everyone was paying
sales tax on their online sales. So I would think that we would continue to see that number rise. I
don't think it's something we can ride off into the sunset and say that's going to save us, but it
might offset changes that we're continuing to see in brick-and-mortar stores.
So if you look at our brick-and-mortar stores, those numbers are down. And so what we were
seeing is brick-and-mortar go down and we weren't getting any sales and use tax from online. So
at least now we're starting to see some sales and use tax from online that's offsetting some of that
brick-and-mortar decrease.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, that being so, did you want to talk to that?

DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, sorry. I was just going to give you an idea of the scale. So even though
it's increased 52%, it went from $780,000 in May of last year to $1.2 million in May of this year.
So it's still about 2% of our monthly collection. So it's relatively small, but it has grown
significantly.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. But I'd imagine if we really collect what people are really buying, it's
going to be a lot of money.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I think you'll start seeing that as audits start coming in that the
state does and local entities do as it relates to home-rule cities and more people are found to not
be paying that, then the more audits you see and the more findings, you'll see more people start
to remit it. So it's just going to take a while to ramp up.
JUDY LUBOW: Now, is that included in the Leeds prognosis?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So they look at online sales, yes.
JUDY LUBOW: So they've already looked at that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, no silver bullet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Unfortunately not.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, keep looking. All right, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Something you said triggered a thought. How was
marijuana sales been? Is that up, good?
[LAUGHS]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: He's got the numbers here, but I remember them being very good.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, and I apologize. I don't have medical marijuana. It's usually about-medical marijuana stays pretty steady. It's about $200,000 a month. But in the month of May, the
retail marijuana was $716,000.
KEN MIHALIK: Last year, it was like half a million, right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Right.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we were estimating losing about a half a million if it didn't get
restored, and now we're up in that $700,000 range, going up.
KEN MIHALIK: And then car sales are way down, right?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Car sales have been down. I don't know that about this last month, but
they have, overall, been down. It looks like they were up slightly.
DOUG MACLEOD: 1.3.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 1%.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But yes, they have been down. We had seen a steady trajectory of car
sales going up and up, far exceeding inflation or any other growth rates in the 6-plus percent
range. At the beginning of this year, we saw that drop slightly. And now it appears to trending up
slightly again, but yeah. And I don't know the reason for that because that has been a pretty
steady trajectory up.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. It's quick. So I actually had a very similar thought to
Director Walker with the C, D, the L-- and you could probably throw the H in there-- if there
were any substantial changes that would have impacted these percentage changes, if you might
be able to investigate that.
And I also was curious-- so two questions. When we have service changes of any kind, do we
ever survey folks to see how those changes impact them in their day-to-day commutes?
DOUG MACLEOD: I can answer the first question. So we did look at it. So we've been looking
at the way we present it to the Board and also to the FTA, on a period to close-- so monthly and
weekday averages. What we also did is we went back and we looked at run boards versus run
boards because there are some changes when you look at, say, the May run board this year
versus May run board last year. But there was nothing significant that we saw that would have
caused this type of a change-SHONTEL LEWIS: On any of these lines?
DOUG MACLEOD: --at least the ridership-- correct, yes, on those lines that you mentioned in
particular. As far as the other question goes, I think-- yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: On the second question, we are initiating, this year, to do some survey
information after run board changes so we can get feedback before a service change and then get
feedback after as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that. And then my final-- it's more of a
comment than it is a question, so don't feel like you have to answer it. I'm curious if there could
have been some changes that pushed folks off the light rail into fixed transit, fixed routes. Is that
possible?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, it's always possible. I think probably what we're seeing more of
is what was talked about a little bit earlier-- that with the opening of the G Line, that people are
probably moving off the West Line or some other line and going to one of those stations. Or like
we saw with even the B Line, which is commuter rail, we've seen a decrease in the B Line in
those couple of months that the G Line has been open-- so maybe shifting people that way. But I
don't think we have enough data to be able to tell whether they've shifted from light rail to fixed
bus service at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is there a way in which you could look at the declines in ridership on light
rail and see if there's a bus near proximity to see if there's an increase in ridership on that route?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We could. I don't know if we did that or not, so let me check.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Folska, you're next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Doug, what is the combined marijuana sales
tax between medical and recreational?
DOUG MACLEOD: In percentage terms or dollar-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just the month. Like, you said $200,000 from medical.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, sorry. $200,000 for medical, and about $700,000 for retail-- so
$900,000.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, and that's consistently increasing?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So maybe they're not riding the train.
[LAUGHTER]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But that's really Director Broom's thought. I just thought it made sense.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think they're riding the mall shuttle.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm sorry. I'm getting a little punchy, but-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But actually, when you think about it, when you think about the commuter
rail versus light rail, now people have a choice. And the commuter rail is big. It's bold. It's

sparkly. It moves fast. It's groovy. It's going somewhere, right? Our light rail is like a brokendown old horse. I mean, it's breaking down.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, don't take it personally. I love the light rail. But I'm getting these
email notices at 3:00 in the morning, 4:00 in the morning, about problems with all of these lightrail lines. And they take forever. I'm glad that we opened the Southeast Rail extension. But if you
were going to try to get from one end to the other, you might as well drive a car even in the
traffic.
I think that maybe those are some questions to look into because it takes-- before we opened it, it
was a 45-minute ride from Lincoln to down here. Now, if you are busy doing other things and
you don't mind-- but for a lot of folks, that's just too long.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We won't comment.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I mean, [INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're both Lincoln-to-downtown riders on that line. So
[INAUDIBLE].
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I mean, but you have work to do, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Lots of it. So you can occupy yourself. But I mean, for a lot of people, I
think that's the thing. When they think, oh, I could drive somewhere and get on the A Line or the
B Line or the G Line, that's moving. And you get the sense you're really moving. You're not just
stopping every five minutes.
And then that's really the issue with the R Line, because it's just meandering around and slow.
So-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we'll definitely be looking at those things.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: What if we had a chat with Henry and got a nice double-decker express
rail from the Southeast to Denver?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, you can't see Henry, but he-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know. I feel it, though.
[LAUGHS]
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you, Director Folska. Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: Just quickly, I have an informational question. I think they're called use taxes.
I'm not sure. But does RTD collect if somebody in the district goes out of the district and buys a
car and that pays a sales tax? Do we get that too?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is called a use tax.
JUDY LUBOW: And we do get it.
DAVE GENOVA: If they registered in the district.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So use taxes are much more difficult to collect, and so that's why you
see that number. Well, you might not see the number, but we see the number. It varies greatly
from month to month, how much use tax we collect. And that's really on the citizen to pay their
use tax when they have done something such as that.
Now, in car sales, they track that. They keep track of-- if you bought something in Grand
Junction, you have to report where you live, and you get charged the sales tax on where you live.
But on other items, such as boats and RVs and things like that, it's much more difficult.
JUDY LUBOW: But theoretically, we do collect it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we do collect it. It's just probably more of a reporting issue than a
collecting issue.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Great, thank you. And we are moving on to our next update, the pass program
update-- a lot of overlap in these.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Well, I don't know if this has overlap, but I did want to give you
an update on where we are. The update is in your packet, but we do have some breaking news.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Breaking news. We have determined a go-live date.
[INAUDIBLE]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We do have one more hurdle to get through tomorrow, but we're fairly
confident that will be positive. And so we are aiming for Monday, July 29 to go live. So in the
next couple days, we'll be quite busy. We're going to be sending you additional information that
we had promised you before on FAQs and information related to the program.
We will then be working and informing our nonprofit programs right after you receive that
information. And then we will be doing a press release after that. And then all of the documents

that you have received and the nonprofits have received will be posted on our live page. We have
a-- no. We have a LiVE page that will be live, is what I meant to say.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, I was so-- I even had it written down. So that will be starting to be populated tomorrow with
those documents. And we continue to have meetings because there has been concern from the
nonprofit programs about how this affects them. There's misinformation. There's information that
we need to validate with them.
And so we're continuing to set up meetings with them, and we'll make sure they continue to get
information as we go through the process of going live in the next couple weeks. So we expect to
have more meetings with them. But that's where we are as of tonight.
[APPLAUSE]
So we will be moving forward on that, and then we will continue to report to you progress. So
we expect the first few weeks or so to be kind of slow because it will take a while for people to
apply and start getting their cards and then start selling the fare media so that's available to them.
But we will continue do monthly updates on this program so that you know the status and any
ongoing issues and concerns that we have.
We do have the capability, in working with OAT, to do updates and future phases of this
program. And so immediately, we'll be dealing with defects that might come up as people use it.
We'll have a mechanism for people to provide us feedback on the LiVE page where they can
provide us feedback.
So we're hoping to gather that, and then that will influence changes that we will make to the
system, whether they be immediate changes or changes that we'll roll out in future phases. So we
will be providing that opportunity also so that they have kind of a direct line to us to provide that
feedback, and then we'll be accumulating it and figuring out where we have potential issues
moving forward.
So it's going to be an ongoing review and update of the program to see how it's going. Again, this
is a major undertaking. We've never done anything of this magnitude before, at least in recent
history. And so it'll be one of those issues we continue to work through and report back to the
Board on.
KEN MIHALIK: I see a couple of speakers. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, I want to really commend
you and your team on the willingness to look outside of the box, because this is probably one of
the most important pieces I've seen come through this agency in a very, very, very long time.
And because it's so complex with the constituents that are going to be utilizing this and what it
was developed for, I just don't want to lose the spirit of it. And I'm really happy to hear you

saying that there's going to be a feedback page, and then also that you're willing to look and
adjust things.
I will just say to you, again, for the record, that very concerned about my community, the Latino
community, especially in light of the immigration sweeps that's being set that maybe happen in
Denver. They're very leery of doing anything. And I would say that not only for the Latino
community, but refugee communities and people who are here, struggling to try and make it
here. That's one thing I just want to say for the record.
But the other is I appreciate what you are saying about working in collaboration with the
nonprofits and their constituency bases. Because it's an app base, a lot of those folks don't have
smartphones, or they are not app-savvy, or that platform may be a real detriment to them.
So I just want to say I do have a lot of serious concerns, but I also have a lot of optimism in the
sense that everybody's willing to sit at the table and work. But I think communication and
transparency is probably the two most important things that I see. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis, you're next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I second everything you have said there. One of the
things that come to me quite often, Heather-- and you mentioned this was the nonprofit
programs-- particularly the service providers and those that work with our in-house folks, and the
proof of eligibility, and then also needing to keep up with the past as well while also
experiencing homelessness.
And so my guess is, because it's come to me quite a bit, that it's probably going to come to you
all and to plan for that, to mitigate for that, prepare for that. Because I think while this expands
further to a lot more folks in terms of reach, individuals, I think our in-house folks may
experience more barriers to access the program.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and I definitely think we're hearing those things from a variety
of sources. I think one thing that we have had from day one-- so we've been aware that this is
probably going to be a concern-- is working with CHP and Colorado Human Services, as well as
Denver Human Services, very closely because they deal with this population on a very regular
basis.
And so we just had a conversation the other day about some of the things that they experience on
a regular basis. We've been able to work with them on some of the homeless issues and how they
get their benefits to the homeless population and how we can accommodate that also.
So I think, like I said, it's a new thing for us. It's going to be clunky, is the word we've been
using, probably at first until we are able to work through some of the issues. And I'm sure, as we
work through one issue, we're going to come up with more things that we weren't anticipating,
working through the program.

But the team is not disbanding when we go live. To their chagrin, we have weekly meetings set
up all the way through the rest of the year so that we can continue to make the program evolve
and then see where we have issues and deal with them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: We just need to publicize that we do not have a citizenship question on our
application.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct, and it does not require a social security number or a
TIN number.
KATE WILLIAMS: So we need to put that on the front page of the paper. That may help.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and I still understand the concerns that people have by putting
their information into a database. But we purposely did not require that information.
KATE WILLIAMS: And in my other job, we're going to talk to DHS about putting a page in the
Getting There Guide in five languages that references how you go about being qualified for that.
So I've been talking to people already about getting that information out into those communities.
So thank you for all of the work that you've done on this. And like I said earlier tonight, let's just
hang in there and get it out on the street and get it up and running, and then we'll carry on.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. We will move on to our last update for this committee. And
this is the draft report on finishing FasTracks and the Northwest peak service plan.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want to start?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: So Mr. Chair, we'll just be brief in our remarks this evening and be happy to
take questions and input. So at the last Board meeting, we presented the draft preliminary report.
We went through a brief presentation with the Board of Directors. We had a lot of good
questions. We were able to answer some of those questions that night.
We've received a number of questions also from board members. So tonight, in the packet that
you have for the committee tonight that came out earlier in the week is again the presentation
that we did at the board meeting. The draft preliminary report that we had put together is also in
the packet.
Plus, we have the questions and answers of all the questions that we received. And most of them,
we were able to answer. We still have some that we need a little bit more time and a little bit
analysis to work through.

So it's a lot of information. I know that you've have a good amount of time to look at the report
in the last few weeks, and we were really appreciative of the questions we received. They were
good. They were thoughtful. And we're happy to take any questions. So Heather's here. Bill's
here. And also Henry's here, and myself.
KEN MIHALIK: Great, thank you. Director Folska, you're first.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. General Manager Genova and your SLT team,
thank you so much for the courage of your bold and big ideas. This, to me, is the best thing I've
seen come out of this agency. In spite of what Director Malpiede said, the fare pass program is
good. This is off the charts.
And I do think it takes a lot of courage, and it's going to take some time to digest it. Again, I
would encourage you to include the CAC in your process of moving forward on this in a very
meaningful way. But thank you so much. I appreciate it.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I, too, want to thank staff for all the work that
you've put into this. You're very busy people, and having this added in addition asked a lot. And
I asked a lot of questions, and you answered them. So I really appreciate that from all of you.
I wanted to give some comments because, I mean, it's huge. And a bunch of us, a whole bunch of
us, went and spoke with Adams County Commissioners. And one of the things I was saying was
the Agency is at a turning point now. We're kind of winding down construction of the easier
corridors to fund. And we're winding down, and that's freeing up time and effort to go after the
harder-- not the low-hanging fruit, the high-hanging fruit. And we haven't had that freedom
before. So it's an exciting time.
I personally believe that funding over $2 billion worth of projects is-- we're going to need
additional money. And most probably, that means going back to the voters at least for some of
that. And in my opinion-- and I don't have a crystal ball. But in my opinion, it's going to be hard
for RTD, with the history that we've had, on our own, going out and getting that money and
having it pass. That's just my opinion.
So therefore, I would think that we'd have a better path being part of a regional initiative. And I
know they're out there. People are discussing things now. And I would urge staff-- and I'm sure
you're already doing it-- being part of those discussions and, this time, not being shunned, but
really addressing finishing FasTracks. Because it's the elephant in the room that, in my opinion,
has been stalking the transportation initiatives. If you don't deal with it, it takes it down because
people are angry. So I think it needs to be dealt with.
And I think if we can be creative and show that we're really trying to improve things and that we
have a good plan, I think we could and should be included in a regional initiative. So I think one

of the things that we have to do, in my opinion-- and I'm just stating my opinion-- is we have to
put some skin in the game and not just say, we don't have any money. I personally think that
that's not a good ask to say we don't have anything.
And so that means looking at our own budget, which is very tight-- and I know that-- but really
looking at it to see where are there wants as opposed to needs that we could get some money out
of our own budget to say that this is what we could afford to pay to pay down the cost so that
then we can go to the stakeholders and the citizens and ask them for money. We're not just
asking them with a hand out. We're saying, we're also coming forward with our own. And it's
painful, but we're going to do it.
I personally think that finishing the corridors, in the time that I've been on the Board, has not
been a priority. It's just been seen as almost this thing that we can't do. And I would urge that we
have an attitude of "I can" rather than "I can't." At least try. At least try to have that attitude.
And I think what that means is looking for money in our budget, and also talking to the
stakeholders for support for the creative funding ideas that Heather listed in the report. There's
lots of them. And we can't do it on our own, but we can do it with the stakeholders.
And I also think that we need to think outside the box about getting our corridor projects, if,
possible on the DRCOG project lists. I'm not sure if we can do that. I don't know enough about
that, but I think it would be worth trying so that we could see if we could incrementally finance
things. OK.
And this is a hard one. I think that we need to give this a major, major shot, and do everything
that we can to try to raise money in creative ways. And if we are hitting up against a wall that we
just can't beat it, we have to start thinking really about going to our citizens and saying, well,
what else can we do to make you whole? If the rail is not going to happen, what can we do? And
you know if I would say that, that's really something, because I've been working on this for
years.
So that's the big picture from my take for now. But one additional point I wanted to talk about
was the ridership figures for the Northwest Rail, which are very low, unfortunately. And they
were reduced, of course, after the NAMS study because of the Great Recession. And the Great
Recession brought down development.
But it's been 10 years since the Great Recession. I mean, we're in the great boom, really. And I'm
just wondering how we get those more realistic figures in based on the reality that we're not in
the Great Recession. And I think that could really change things in terms of ridership.
And one additional thing-- it's my understanding that, for the 119 bus ridership, they include
Larimer and Weld potential riders. And if that is true, I think we should also think about doing
that for the Northwest Rail. At least for now, that's it for me. Thank you for listening to all that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Chairman Tisdale, you're up.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. I do want to applaud
staff again, as I did last time when this was presented, for pulling together an exceptional report.
All of the update reports this evening had been exceptional and extremely useful. This one in
particular I appreciate very much, addressing the questions that were submitted to you all
immediately following the initial timely presentation of this draft interim report.
And I note, on packet page 259, question 27, I very much appreciate your including question 27
and giving us the opportunity to consider alternatives to sales tax. Because we did, after all,
dictate in that April 16 resolution that staff be creative in reviewing financing opportunities and
possibilities. And I think, as discussed here in question 27 on the response, you have done that.
So again, congratulations. Thank you. And we know this continuing process will repeat itself and
will come back to us for further discussion, further exploration. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger, you are next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I agree. This is a great work. I spent a lot of time with
it again in the last couple of days and really appreciate it. And I also appreciate Director Lubow's
comments. I agree with much of that. Thank you for taking the time to answer so many of our
questions from before.
I am looking at the chart that shows the projections of the NAMS study. It's page 11 of the
report. And at that point, the weekday ridership in the horizon year 2035 was projected to be
9,300 to 10,800. I think now, in 2040, it's down to-- this is for full development of the corridor-4,100 to 5,400, which is basically half. And I guess I'd just be interested to see-- I think you said,
Bill, that it's based on DRCOG's employment projections. Is that right?
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. That is
correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is it possible to get the data and just look at it? When I look at it and see
800 projected for a peak-period rail and that these numbers are half, I'd just like to see what we're
looking at.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, we can provide that information, of course.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. But yeah, I think it's great. I think that we need to start
looking at all of these options and keep working with our partners to try to move it forward
constructively. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Buzek, you are next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thanks for this report. A lot of information in here
and, importantly, the estimated costs to complete these corridors-- thank you, Kate-- is
interesting.

So we've got all these different scenarios, different options, moving forward. And we don't know
what's going to happen down the road because we're clearly not going to get very far with just
our sales tax revenue and fare box revenue. So something else has to happen.
But as I explored these different scenarios, one thing I have to say, that the more attractive types
of scenarios involve sequencing that built out the less expensive corridors in a quicker fashion.
The problem with that is those corridors are south of I-70. And again, we have the issue of
regional equity.
And because we created a goal, in our 2020 General Manager task goals, to consider regional
equity, I continue to hope that we look at that moving forward beyond 2020 as well so that if we
somehow come up with money to work on FasTracks corridors, we need to look at the corridors
that may be more expensive, may be more costly to work on but, because of this equity issue, are
the ones that we really need to focus on.
So I know that's probably way down the road, but I just wanted to get those comments out there.
Thank you, Mr. Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: You're welcome. Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Scenarios 3b and 3d are pretty aggressive. And I'm wondering what
type of a work force would be needed to complete those lines in that amount of time, and do you
think Denver, this region, will have that type of work force available, especially since this one
community in the district decided to not grow at all anymore.
And if others follow, what happens? Where do the tens of thousands of people that I think it
would take to-- or at least 10,000 people that it would take to complete this, where would they
live? Because they wouldn't all be already in Denver, not with what we have going on already.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll take a run at it. So this is Dave Genova. It's a great question. I thought
about that same question as well as I was reading through the draft report the first time. And
essentially, that's really-- and I'll go out here and say I think the team's going to concur with this.
But we really didn't look at that part of the equation as far as the labor market for, well, not just
construction, but also for the operations and maintenance, right?
Because I think that we can look at our history of the buildout that we've done since, let's say,
2013 and even earlier than 2013. Before we started doing FasTracks, we've been in a pretty
aggressive growth in terms of opening new corridors. I mean, we've done, I think, 10 corridor
projects in 25 years. So that's, what, one every couple of years? And so I think we're definitely
feeling the effects of pretty rapid expansion in terms of having enough available labor pool to do
our operations and maintenance.
So for now, the report, as I see it, doesn't look at that piece. But I think as we move ahead, it's
something we would have to really look at in terms of when we started to have conversations
about maybe sequencing, or which project is first, and is it commuter or is it light rail. I mean,

those are things we'll have to consider, I think, as we have those detailed conversations in later
years. Would-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I guess I would just second that. I mean, we did have
conversations around-- and not even to Henry's-- where he'd like to see them is trying to get
those corridors, as Director Buzek mentioned-- how could we get as many done as possible? And
we weren't looking at geographic equity in that place, but that's why we did run several
scenarios, one doing north corridors first and one doing the least expensive ones.
But that human resource issue is a big issue that we did not take into consideration because that
would have further complicated how we could actually do that process, just to be honest about it.
We also did not really look at sequencing the projects from a true construction scheduling
process. And Henry can attest to that. We tried to get them done as quickly as possible, and we
spread them out one year or maybe two years.
But practically, what we've learned over the years in doing the FasTracks program is we need to
really look at how we're doing that, not only from an internal labor-- can we hire the operators
and stuff-- but also our community, and do we have the construction capability in the community
to do that also. So no, we, for this exercise, did not get there.
JEFF WALKER: And that's fine. It was just a thought that I had. And also, the jurisdictions that
would be along with even the permitting-- the stormwater permit, the swamps, and all the other
civil permits that are needed out there-- they need to have the staff to help review these things
also, the state or whoever else steps in. Just a thought. Great effort, though. No doubt about that.
This is fantastic. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I just wanted to reflect a little bit on what Director Buzek
mentioned about equity. And I think Chair Tisdale could confirm this. And my numbers might
be a little off because I think they're old. But the Southeast Economic Development
Organization, at least when Mike Fitzgerald was there, I think I heard numbers that 70% of the
workforce in South Denver metro region, Lone Tree, come from north of I-70. So I'm always
kind of curious. Does that ring true, roughly? You got to talk to me.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, if I may. It rings high, actually, at 70% north of I-70 working
in South Metro. That doesn't comport with my understanding. It's high.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: My number's too high?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, well, that's the number that I had heard or remembered it because of
the 70 and the 70. But nonetheless, there's a lot of people coming down or is going to be coming
down there. And that seems to be some numbers that maybe you need to go in to, Mr. Van
Meter, your numbers and projecting the ridership.

But you go up there. Even on the weekend, it is bumper to bumper. And even the express lane on
I-25 up to-- what is it, 120th or something-- is packed. I mean, it's not even an express. So it's
quite clear that expanding the highway isn't going to solve the problem either.
So I'm wondering about those numbers, Bill, those projected numbers. And can you maybe look
up what the original FasTracks projected numbers were for the W Line and what they actually
came out to be?
BILL VAN METER: We can provide that ridership information. You bet.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, just from the projections. I mean, we did that. And then when it
comes to human capital, I think Director Walker's quite right. I mean, where are we going to get
these people? But I do recall some people being worried in Weld County that they wouldn't have
jobs. They could come work here. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. I did want to say I agree with Director Buzek about the
concerns regarding sequencing. And it was part of the reason I requested the train miles. I'm
hoping we still can get that-- not to be provocative, not to assert that those are the only things we
should consider in deciding.
But it should be one of the factors, the amount and quality of service that's already in place and
has been in place as one factor in considering if we have to make that painful choice about
sequencing-- or if we get to, I guess I should say-- I still think we ought to consider that as one
legitimate element. Because just the way things have worked out, the majority of the service has
gone to the south if you talk about train service, or rapid transit too.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Broom, I'll let you get the last word.
BOB BROOM: Thanks, Chair. I stepped out for a couple of minutes, so maybe I missed this. But
now that this report is completed, what is the plan for disseminating the report and the
information, and trying to bring some leadership to determine whether any of this is feasible and
how it should move forward?
Because I hate to see things be developed and just simply put on the shelf. I think that's a
disservice to the people that spent all this time compiling this information, and it's a disservice to
us as a board to not follow up on something that's obviously been promised and we need to
deliver, but not 2050 timeframe.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Mr. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, thank you. So actually, there's a lot of interest in this report. I've had
requests from stakeholders to send it to them, and I have, along with the Q&A. And I think it

provides, for the district, a great opportunity to have just an expanded dialogue of where we are
with the program, and especially when we talk about funding and turning around that
conversation in terms of-- I think it was Director Lubow that mentioned being part of a
transportation funding initiative as opposed to not wanting anybody to associate with us because
of where we are with the FasTracks program.
And actually, I think as we look at the variety of different scenarios, I've had some very good
conversations with elected officials so far. The encouraging aspect is when we look at the
scenarios under 3 where we look at just a very moderate increase of what we can accomplish in
the timeframe that we can accomplish. I had a conversation yesterday with an elected that said,
I'd certainly like to see the N Line finished, so let me know how I can help this. And I'd like to
see more rubber tire service. So how can I be supportive of this?
So I think what this report does is it allows us to really actively engage in those conversations,
especially for me as I go around the district and talk to various stakeholders and do presentations
and engage our public and our communities. So it will be a living document. I can't recall. Did
we post it, Bill, on the website yet? If we haven't, we will, and we'll get that information out.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you very much. That concludes our updates this evening. We will
go on to other matters if anyone has any other matters. Chairman Tisdale, you have some other
matters for us.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to note, for the sake of
the record, that the expense policy amendment that was discussed, I believe, three weeks ago has
been withdrawn and will not be coming forward at this meeting or at any time in the future. The
issue that was addressed there and now, having been examined and explored, has had a light
shone upon it, and there's not any concern that there will be any issues with that going forward.
Sunlight cures so many issues.
It was never a policy aimed at any one director. I want that understood. But in any event, it will
not be going forward.
The second point, under other matters, is to note, as the Chair mentioned earlier, Transit Watch.
Transit Watch is an app that provides for safety and security for everyone on our buses, on our
trains, at our stations, on the platforms. If you use Transit Watch, you'll never ride alone.
We had an exceptionally dramatic display of the impact of Transit Watch, and we are delighted
that Director Walker is here to tell the tale-- not that he's going to tonight, but I'm just saying that
he's here with us. Because he did, appropriately and adroitly, use Transit Watch to communicate
with our Transit Police Department eight days ago in a situation that was fraught with danger and
potential harm to our riders, none of which occurred by virtue of Director Walker's actions and
our Transit Police, working also in conjunction with the Denver Police Department.
So just really, folks, please, download the Transit Watch app. Keep it handy. Know that you can
use it, because we know it works. And thanks very much to Fox News, Channel 2, Channel 31
here in Denver for highlighting that and doing a story on that and promoting Transit Watch. As I

said, you'll never ride alone. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Those are my two other
matters.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. I don't see anybody else has any. Our next-JUDY LUBOW: Wait. No, I do.
KEN MIHALIK: --meeting is-- oh.
JUDY LUBOW: Yoohoo.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow, sorry I didn't-JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I didn't press the button, so sorry. Thank you. I just wanted a couple of
comments, one about that expense policy that was dropped, that issue. I'm really glad it was
dropped. And frankly, I would hope not to see something like that again, personally. So I'm just
glad that we're moving forward from that.
The other thing is this City of Golden letter that we got at our desks. And it just intrigued me
because it mentioned that, hey, we corresponded with the Board before. We had some concerns,
and we haven't heard back from you.
And I'm thinking, well, that's a reasonable thing to expect, and maybe we need to think of a
policy of if a city corresponds with us, that we respond back. And maybe it's worth discussing
offline how to do that. That's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, thank you. On that City of Golden, we'll check on that because we
track all these letters. And we typically do develop a response to them. And I'm trying to recall
whether we did to this one or not, but we'll work through that tomorrow at Senior Leadership
Team.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I wanted to-- one, I was going to answer the question Director
Folska asked about the West Line because that is-- this was a really big packet, 400 and, what,
39 pages? The ridership is in here on page 163, but it's buried right in the middle. West Line,
predicted for the year 2025, would be 31,200 to 36,500.
And this has always puzzled me. It makes calculations so hard when we do weekday ridership.
And I want to just split it out by the months, days of the month. So if I look at the West Line and
I divide it by 20 days out of May's ridership, that puts us at 16,100. But that's not accurate

because we got weekday ridership. Then you're going to get down more to 14,000. So why do
we have to do that?
BILL VAN METER: Well, in terms of federal funding requirements and things like that, they
look at daily ridership and projected annual ridership, is their two key measures. And their daily
ridership is weekday. So those are just common metrics that we do use.
Our current ridership, I believe, is reported in the questions and answers that were presented new
tonight as average weekday. So that does provide you a direct comparison for our weekday
excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, and in that one, which-- yeah, my screen won't flip. It's not gonna
flip fast enough for me. That's in there also, but I think Director Folska was asking about the
2012, the early projections.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, actually it's the 2003 original projection numbers.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's the number I gave you then.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, [INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, because it was the report that was signed by the all the RTD board
members at that time, 2003-2004, [INAUDIBLE] DRCOG. It's the official original. But as you
mentioned, Mr. Van Meter, the updated numbers are towards the end of this very large packet
also.
And then I just did want to comment on the City of Golden. I generally do keep pretty good
communication with the City of Golden. And this issue, they seem to have some confusion about
what's going on. Number one, they've always been regional out there. They were not handpicked
just to be the only station on the West Line that was regional.
And then when we-- and I'll try to keep my temper down. When we went through the fare policy
change in 2015 and spent a year and a half going out to the public over and over and over and
over and over and over, and we said, OK, let's make all the rail-- except for the airport, I believe- one cost, Boulder came in and said, this is not fair to us. City of Golden jumped on and said,
that's right. It's not fair. And all of a sudden, our single fare went away and we went to distance.
So they brought this upon themselves, as far as I'm concerned. They were always regional. And
if we want to talk about being fair, there are other places on our line and others that are regional
fares. They are not singled out. And I have explained that to the City Manager. I explained that
to the Mayor.
And if we want to go into this discussion, number one, we don't do it now. We're going to be
doing it-- I won't even be on the Board when we go to have this discussion. So if you all want to
do it, fine. But that's the history on this, and I think this is going through our GMR process. But I
will be happy to write another letter or speak to them personally, so if you'd like to get me a

status on where we're at with this so I can explain to them that the Saturday change does not go
hand in hand with amending them being a regional stop.
And what are we going to do about Peggy's Conifer area and Evergreen? Because they're
regional, and they're just right up the hill. So where do we end this? All right, now I'm done with
my rant. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Yes, we will meet again next month, August 13. And we will
adjourn this meeting.
[GAVEL BANGS]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

