Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
Corrected Minutes
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 11, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
May 10, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl,
Cohen, Daly, Hoy, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Directors Deadwyler and Malpiede arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Cohen and Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Susan Sandoval,
Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Walt
Stringer, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Eric Biga – Veolia, Bert Bondi – Bondi & Co., Jeff Leib – Denver Post,
Stanley Gronek, Treasurer – ATU Local 1001, Rich MacIntosh Transportation Software, and Cheryl Wallace – Bondi & Co.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Presentation of 2010 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to
Governance
Terry Howerter noted that Cheryl Wallace, a representative of Bondi & Co, LLC would
present to the Board the information found in their audit of RTD’s financials.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 2 of 5

Cheryl Wallace indicated that with regards to the Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report, that in the auditor’s opinion; all financial statements presented fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the District as of December 31, 2010 and
2009. There were no disagreements with management, no material adjustments to
financial records, no significant difficulties, nor any need for outside consultation. The
Report to Governance shows a snap shot of the financial trends for the past 5 years.
RTD has well above the cash on hand guide with regards to cash, cash equivalence, and
marketable securities, which is quite favorable. Salaried and Union Pension Plan liabilities
are fluctuating, but are growing from previous years figures. Advisory comments and
suggestions include:
 Interim Financial Reporting
 Capital Assets – Costs Adjustments and Depreciation
 Bank Reconciliation Review
Terry Howerter noted that out of the 3 recommendations, staff agrees with those
changes, and they are already being implemented.
Chair Kemp asked if the difference between cash on hand versus the sustainability
recommendation could be explained, since we have more than the recommended amount
on hand. Terry Howerter explained that the audit and financial statements include
FasTracks funds, which are different than the RTD Base operation funds, which skew
the figures.
Director Tayer noted that the Union Pension Plan was mentioned as being unfunded and
inquired how this affects RTD, and if the Board is ultimately responsible for the
difference. Terry Howerter explained that the Union Pension Plan is currently funded by
RTDs contribution into the plan by both RTD and the employee. Under GAAP, we are
required to recognize these liabilities, but is more of an information item to the Board.
Director Brohl inquired as to what the funding percentages were with regards to both
pension plans. Terry Howerter noted that the Salaried Plan was at 98% funding, and the
Union Plan was close to 73% funding. Director Brohl added that these figures were
within the norm, since not all pension plans were funded at 100%, room is allotted for
growth.
Marla Lein noted that the Board of Directors cannot and does not control the union trust,
and is therefore not responsible. The information must be disclosed, but the Board has
no responsibility to this plan.
General Manager Washington commended Terry Howerter and his team for the great
work they have done to receive the highest rating for CAFR possible. Chair Kemp added
that especially for them to take on DUSPA financial reporting and to establish a FTA
recognized fund. The Board appreciates all the hard work.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating
to the year ended December 31, 2010 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District’s

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 3 of 5

independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the
motion to accept this
presentation of 2010 RTD
Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report and Report
to Governance.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Committee Chair James indicated he would entertain a motion to move these two action
items together.


Records Analyst and Document Control Services Contract – Cen-Tec

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award Cen-Tec a contract to provide records analyst and document control
services, for the amount not to exceed of $300,000. The proposed action also requests
authorization to execute a budget transfer form capital project 10307 task 90 to
expense budget code 01.3305.53012.000.0000 in the amount of $101,951. RTD
policy requires Board authorization for this transfer.


Booz Allen Hamilton Business Process Work Order Contract Increase of Contract
Value Not-to-Exceed.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
increase the contract value not-to-exceed limit for an existing contract with Booz Allen
Hamilton for Business Process Services (Contract 10DJ001). This contract was originally
awarded in 2010 to Booz Allen Hamilton through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to be renewed based on
positive performance by the vendor. The proposed action increases the current contract
not-to-exceed limit of $450,000 by $1,000,000 to a new total contract not-to-exceed
limit of $1,450,000.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the
motion to move these two
actions to the full Board
meeting on April 19, 2011.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 4 of 5

the motion.
Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Tayer noted that the not to
exceed amount is quite significant,
what was the rationale behind that
figure. Trent Ratcliff noted that our
intent, along with the analysis of
other processes and the new smart
card system warranted this new
amount.
The Motion passed Unanimously.

II.

First Quarter 2011 Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes noted that 3 audits were performed in the 1st quarter of 2011:
 Smart Card Implementation Procedures
 Fully Burdened Labor Overhead Rate Determination
 Central Parking Contract

III.

TIFIA Application Update
Teresa Sedmak indicated that the District is currently in the application process for the
TIFIA loan. RTD worked with USDOT and were invited to apply for the TIFIA funding for
the Eagle P3 project. This program offers a number of advantages in that we can borrow
at Treasury rates which would be fixed at the time of closing, and allows a 35 year
repayment term. There is also flexibility if we need to defer a payment in the future,
which is not found in the Bond Market.
Chair Kemp inquired as to who would be presenting this application, and where would
the presentation take place. Teresa Sedmak noted that the TIFIA office is located in
Washington DC, and she would be going along with Bill Van Meter, Tom Rusacus, Chris
Elmore, and other members of staff on June 16, 2011.
General Manager Washington added that only 4 invitations went out from the TIFIA
Agency, and we were the only transit agency invited to attend.

IV.

First Quarter 2011 Investment Report
Teresa Sedmak noted that while there was growth in the economy, there was a lot of
volatility in the markets due to worldwide events in the 1st quarter and the Federal
Reserve maintained its position regarding interest rates. However, we did exceed the
benchmarks for our portfolio for the 1st quarter and the policy considerations and
parameters were complied with.

V.

2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan Update and 2011 Amended Budget Update
Jeannette Scarpino explained that the SBP includes only service and projects funded
from the base .06% sales and use tax. FasTracks expense and projects are included
separately in the FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation financial plan. This SBP update

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 5 of 5

also includes forecasted information from the CU Leeds School of Business. SBP
Expenditure Assumptions need to consider:
 Operating and Maintenance Costs
 Fuel Costs
 Debt Service
 Capital Expenditures
Challenges for the 2012-2017 SBP include:
 Sales & Use Tax Volatility
 Fuel Price Uncertainty
 State of Good Repair Commitments
 FasTracks Corridors In-Service Costs
VI.

First Quarter 2011 Performance Measures
Jeanette Scarpino noted that the measures that were not met were detailed for Board
Review.
General Manager Washington added that this report is definitely something that we use
to help us campaign these issues that are lacking to ensure that we meet our goals by
the end of the year.

VII.

March 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod noted that ridership is 16,000 below what was recorded last year
regarding bus transport; however, ridership has increased on the light rail. We have
increased fare revenue, mainly due to the fare increase that was implemented this past
January. The Balance Sheet indicates that we run $30,000,000 per month with regards
to operating expenses, but we usually have $80-90 million on hand. Overall for the
current month compared to the prior month, ridership is up 2.3%; fare revenue is up
11.7% and sales and use tax is up 7.1%.

VIII.

Other Matters
None

IX.

Next Meeting Date – June 14, 2011

X.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned to the DBE Committee Meeting at 6:37 p.m.

