Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 30, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms RT D

Board
Members
Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Cohen, Daly,
James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Directors Bagley and Martinez
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cheryl Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, K Parker, Paula
Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Mike Smith, Bill Sirois,
Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Cherie Sprague, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert,
Lisa Trujillo, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington
Others Present: Incoming Board member Barbara Deadwyler, Jeff Leib (The
Denver Post * * *
Call to Order:

Second Vice Chair Busck called the Study Session meeting to
order at 5:33 p.m.

I. State of the District Address
Phil Washington, General Manager, with his senior leadership team presented
the State of the District by departments.
He shared the 2010
accomplishments, 2011 goals and challenges. Some of the highlights from
each department included:
General Counsel:
 2010 accomplishments included timely negotiations of Burlington
Northern, Union pacific Railroads and completing negotiations for
award of P3 concessionaire contract.


2011 goals and challenges included assisting Labor relations in
negotiations of collective bargaining agreement and assisting west and

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 6
Eagle P-3 teams in obtaining Public Utilities Commission authorization.
Finance:
 2010 accomplishments included providing a $1.1 billion of new
innovative debt funding for Eagle P3, advancement of FasTracks
projects and base operations; and compiled additional federal grant
reporting requirements for ARRA, assumed responsibilities for DUSPA
accounting and improved setup of separate funds for base operations
and FasTracks financials.
 2011 goals and challenges include providing funding resource
strategies to maintain current levels of service, advance FasTracks
projects and maintain a balanced budget; and assist in the
implementation of the farebox and smartcard projects. A key challenge
is maintaining financial sustainability through the current economic
crisis.
Administration:
 2010 accomplishments included advanced the computer aided
dispatch/automatic vehicle locator (CAD/AVL) system and radio
upgrade project and created the Civil Rights Division.
 2011 goals and challenges include fully implemented Smartcard
system, preparation for 2012 Collective Bargaining Agreement and
complete development of the WIN program and have one full cycle of
students/participants fully engaged and employed. Challenges include
managing resources with increasing demands and expectations.
Safety, Security and Facilities:
 2010 accomplishments included completed scheduled ARRA/stimulus
funded projects, maintained schedule for on-going ARRA projects and
other facilities engineering projects.
 2011 goals and challenges include complete the development of
RTD’s asset management/state of good repair and complete
implementation and transition to automated fare inspection and
database program, and accident/incident report management program.
Challenges include maintaining older facilities and equipment that
funding shortfalls have not allowed to be replaced.
Communications:
 2010 accomplishments include addressed more than 2000 direct
media inquiries and public information requests; logged more than
5,000 earned media interviews, mentions and responses.
 2011 goals include expanding upon the RTD and FasTracks marketing
and advertising campaign; and launching phase one of the subscription
e-mail service that will permit subscribers to receive information on
specific routes. Challenges include providing appropriate resources to
support phase 1 of the new subscription email service to give
subscribers information on specific routes.
Bus Operations:
 2010 accomplishments include awarding of contract for smart card
project and completing development of operations and maintenance

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 6
components of the Eagle P3 RFP, evaluated proposals and awarded
the contract.
 2011 goals include developing a draft West Corridor 2013 service plan
in cooperation with affected stakeholders and a full implementation of
the “Yield to Bus” program. Challenges include maintaining bus
operator headcount in order to minimize/eliminate operator mandates
except in cases of special event service needs and smart media
technology roll-out.
Rail Operations:
 2010 accomplishments include the completion of the Southwest
Corridor Safety Improvements (installation of seismic intrusion
detection) and power upgrade projects.
 2011 goals include commencement of 4-car train operations and
revision of RTD rail rules and standard operating procedures.
Challenges include the participation in the Denver Union Station and
West Corridor cutover and preparation for Wes corridor opening in
2013.
Planning:
 2010 accomplishments include adoption of an expanded TOD plan
with emphasis on transit oriented communities and development of a
new TOD pilot program.
 2011 goals include securing the $1.03 billion FFGA with FTA for the
Eagle P3 by spring 2011 and obtaining the North Metro record of
decision from FTA. Challenges in 2011 include reaching concurrence
on the best short-term and long-term alternatives for FasTracks, and
providing planning and environmental support of construction ready
projects; and developing a recommendation on how to move forward
with re-use of the historic DUS building.
Capital Programs:
 2010 accomplishments include completed procurement and financial
close of Eagle P3 investment and full notice to proceed construction
on the Denver Union Station project.
 2011 goals include implement the construction ready plan to provide
for useful, short-term investments on currently unfunded corridors
and to provide the remaining notice to proceed on the Gold Line
corridor. Challenges include performing major cutovers of track and
systems work at the new connections from existing track to the West
Corridor and Denver Unions Station with minimal disruptions to
existing service.
District-Wide Emerging 2011 Challenges and Priorities:
 Improve the level of bus and rail safety throughout the District
 Work aggressively to implement the 2011 goals from Board/Senior
Leadership Team Advance
 Implementing and managing new technologies such as smartcard,
CAD/AVL, fareboxes, Oracle, radio upgrade, etc.
 Acquiring funding sources

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 6
For a copy of the complete list of accomplishments, goals and challenges, please
refer to the presentation located in the Study Session minutes in the Board office.
Board members comments/questions:
Chair Kemp—thanked the General Manager for the excellent presentation. He also
recognized the new incoming Board member, Barbara Deadwyler. He commented
pertaining to these areas:
 ARAA funding—how many jobs have been created?
 Strategic Leadership Development and employee retention/labor agreement
important efforts in these areas to keep an eye on
 He requested Austin Jenkins, AGM rail for more involvement from the rail in
operations committee
 Thanked Bruce Abel, AGM operations and Mike Gil, Deputy, for wonderful
work in operations
 Complimented Terry Howerter on great financials
 Complimented Scott Reed on his handling of the “POT” conference
controversy
Director Daly: Inquired about operators who quit who do not consider a bus
operator as professional. Mike Gil commented that there are approximately 80%
of the drivers who do consider this professional; however, it is industry norm to
have drivers from other professions (i.e. dentists, construction, etc) that during
economic downturn may drive part-time or temporary but return to their regular
profession when the economy improves. Phil Washington also clarified his
statement on professionals.
 Director Daly inquired of Austin about the automatic breaking capabilities and
if we plan to install on LRT vehicles. He also questioned if the SOP be
negotiated with the ATL.
Austin Jenkins responded they are in
communications. Director Daly also inquired about a device used on buses to
prevent people from getting hit or dragged.
Director Brohl: Needs a better understanding between goals and challenges. What
is the link? Would like to see goal and its specific challenge better clarified.
Director Brohl also questioned that as changes occur from FTA and FRA, how do
we bring the contracted services into compliance also. Phil Washington responded
that RTD does have oversight responsibilities for these contractors
 Director Brohl inquired if we have the in-house expertise to perform design
work in-house. Rick Clarke responded that we are primarily looking at the
SE/SW extensions and it is their assessment that we do have the expertise.
Director Tobiassen: Thanked Phil Washington for an excellent presentation and
commented on the vast knowledge/expertise of the staff. He reflected positively in
these areas:
 RTD responsiveness to the community
 Looking forward to smart card implementation and getting away from paper
bus transfers
 Recruitment and training efforts
 Transit police cops
 Upcoming email technology for communicating about routes

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 6
Director O’Boyle: Congratulated Phil Washington for assembling a great team.
 He noted that we need to continue to increase hours to keep up with outside
world
 Innovative thinking-everyone is working in the same direction.
Director McMullen: was extremely complimentary of Phil Washington who has put
his mark on the organization and for staff who are the best. He values how we
have put Civil Rights at the top of the priority. He complimented Bruce Abel for
putting internal bus operations and privates in the same world. He wanted to know
what is the process for applying for the APTA Annual Award.
Director Tayer: Complimented Phil Washington and his excellent staff. He is most
comfortable having the Board to stick to policy and let the staff manage. He had a
couple of challenges pertaining to:
 Challenges staff to see if we want to replace some of the cuts that have
already been made-need to set the bar higher than the current service levels
 Sustainability-would like a common definition which he is defining as long
term sustainability for future regardless of the economy
 Smart card-would like to re-engage the EcoPass Study team during the
implementation process
 Communications—encourage taking steps to better communicate with the
riders-need to take measures to make it clear to our customers we are
improving real time access to information.
Director Busck: He is honored to have been Chair of the GM Transition Committee
to pick the new GM. He is impressed by how quickly Phil Washington moved to
put a new team in place and has done an excellent job in his selection. His primary
concern is one of safety and security. Over the last few years, riders have
expressed increased concern over riding our buses and rail. We need to do what is
most effective with the least cost in ensuing our passenger’s safety.
Director Malpiede: She is honored to work with such a high caliber staff. She
believes our bus and rail operators have the most difficult jobs and are on the front
line when it comes to customer interaction. These drivers have to be able to multitask while focusing on safety and security of our passengers.
 Communications is the number 1 issue with her constituents. We need to
look at how we can engage in the planning on a regular basis with the
recreational centers, school systems, housing centers, etc before they build
in an area where there is no service. Too often, we hear from these
constituents after they have built in a location where there is not available
service. How can we proactively plan and work together?
Director James: He offers his thanks to our commitment to excellence. He has
had great interface with the staff. He also feels there may be available minds in the
real estate who are willing to work with us on TOD opportunities. We need to
consider these resources.
Director Pulliam: General Manager Washington has met his expectations and has
put in place a great staff. However, he did want to comment on the bus ad. He
feels RTD is making a big mistake in hanging our hat on the legal technicality. This
has the potential to become a politically hot issue.
Director Christopher: He echoes kudos to Phil Washington and his staff for their
outstanding work. The State of the District presentation was outstanding. He is

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 30,
2010 at 5:30p.m. Page 6 of 6
truly proud to have been a member of this Board. When he reflects back on what
has been accomplished, the $3 billion in active projects that the General Manager
spoke about is significant. This report also shows the full plate RTD has in the
coming year. One of the things that he leaves as a legacy is advocating on behalf
of the TOD expansion policy. This is huge. He would encourage the GM to video
this presentation and send it to every Channel 8.
Director Cohen: He agrees with all that has been said. He also feels we should do
streaming technology for our meetings. Doing this real time will improve our public
communications. He continues to be impressed and is proud of the RTD team who
are responsive and transparent. We are truly making the leap from good to great.
He is also honored to represent the West Corridor where an exceptional amount of
planning, scheduling, sequencing and rerouting of traffic patterns have been well
executed and transparent to the public.
Chair Kemp offered these parting remarks. He had the opportunity to present at
the League of Cities meeting today. They asked how do you keep it all together.
The answer is with the caliber of staff and employees that RTD has. He would ask
each of the senior leadership team to talk to their managers and supervisors to
make sure information gets disseminated to all the employees about how proud the
Board is of them and their work in making this a great agency. Phil Washington is
a great commander who is doing an excellent job.
VII.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 7:20 p.m.

