Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 7,

2009
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

April 7, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 7, 2009 at 7:40p.m.

* * **
Board Members
Present:

Chair Christopher, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Cohen, Daly,
James, Kemp, Martinez, O'Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Director McMullen participated via teleconference but did not vote.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Scott Reed, Bill Van Meter, John
Shonsey, John Tarbert, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

* ***
Call to Order
I.

Director Christopher called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m.

Recommended Action
John Shonsey, Senior Manager, Engineer/Chief Engineer, indicated that in February
staff came to the board asking to enter into an agreement with CPV Metropolitan
District to relocate some utilities that were impacted by the pedestrian bridge on 181 h
Street. Now staff is asking to amend the agreement for an additional 75k to build a
water service line and an electrical utility vault and extension of conduit.

Amendment to the "AGREEMENT REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF
RELOCATION OF UTILITIES" with the Central Platte Valley Metro District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD approve an
amendment with the Central Platte Valley Metropolitan District (CPVMD) pertaining to
the "AGREEMENT REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF RELOCATION OF
UTILITIES". The amendment will provide an additional $75,000 to the original
agreement for an amount not to exceed $150,000 for other utility relocations, bringing
the total amount to $225,000, allowing the CPVMD to install for RTD at RTD's cost a
new fire line, underground electrical conduit and a new electrical vault serving the
future underground bus facility at Denver Union Station (DUS). Funding for this work is
included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Denver Union Station project.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 7,

2009
Page 2 of 3

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the April 21,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with 1 3 in favor and
abstention.
Barbara Brohl abstained in case this action
item is any way related to the company
she works for.

II.

Updates
•

Station Addition Policy
Cal framed this item for the Board. A policy is being developed to address
requests for additional stations from cities or developers or both. The
implications are: 1- have to look at service quality - do not want to get to he
point where we are stopping every couple miles, it would add travel time.
2- Have to look at schedule and cost - to maintain service additional vehicles
will need to be purchased and is very expensive. Staff will come back to board
with a general policy that will affect commuter rail and establish criteria. It will
be on May's Planning & Development Committee meeting agenda.

•

ARRA Grants
Bill Van Meter informed board that staff is pursuing Tigger Grants. IT is a
Greenhouse Gas Emission and Energy Efficiency program in which 100 million
dollars are available nationwide. RTD is intending to submit 3 separate grant
applications: hybrid buses, solar panel projects and other 7. 5 million dollar
funding for US 36 que jumps.

•

FasTracks Fare Collection Joint Procurement
Rick Clark informed the Board that RTD is going in with a joint procurement with
Utah Transit Authority for the FasTracks fare collection ticket vending machine
and validator. The bigger the order the lower the cost, the two agencies will
share the cost and reduce their individual cost. RTD has worked with UTA
before on fare collection equipment - it was successful. Utah will do the bid
and RTD will piggyback with them. We will exercise option if we choose.

•

Bike-n-Ride Program
Bill Van Meter informed the board of a couple minor changes to the bike-n-Ride
program. Staff is proposing to get rid of the program that mandates permits for
bikes on light rail and put efforts towards enforcing in communicating with
cyclists the rules they need to abide by when bringing bikes on light rail.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 7,

2009
Page 3 of 3

The other change relates to bicycle locker program. Currently customers pay
$20 to purchase an RTD issued padlock to use on their specific locker. Over
time, they use the lockers less frequent. Staff has heard from a number of
bicycling constituencies about this issue. Staff is proposing a solution which
would institute a nominal fee program, charging $30 every 6 months and
renewable lease program that is $5 every month. We believe this will spure
infrequent users to give up their lockers.
Cal met with a group with the City of Denver staff regarding a rental bike
program that will allow you to rent a bike on a per hour basis. The company
implementing this program is asking RTD if they could use some of their space.
They will be coming to the Board to give a presentation. This was very
successful during the Democratic National Convention.

Ill.
IV.

Other Matters
Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, May 5,
2009.

V.

Adjourn- Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at approximately 8:15 p.m.

