Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 25, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
September 25, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
11 members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan, and Ruchman were
out of town.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees but none present to receive the award.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Jennifer Osborne, a disabled rider of Access-n-ride in Arvada, made an appeal for a bus stop
closer to the First United Church of Arvada. Currently she is picked up and dropped off
approximately ¾ mile away from her church.
Mark Costello, First United Church of Arvada, made an appeal for a closer drop-off on behalf of
Jennifer Osborne, citing safety concerns and unfinished sidewalks impeding her ability to
navigate the ¾ mile distance.
Gerald Anderson, First United Church of Arvada, also advocated for Jennifer Osborne and
stated there are buses that run pass the church so this would be a logical drop-off. He stated
this is a safety concern which would not cost more and would provide advantages to dropping
her off in front of the church.
Cal Marsella indicated he would review this issue and follow up on the issues raised on ADA
access, sidewalk issues and other matters.
Russell Greear, Denver, spoke on security concerns over the Labor Day weekend when the
train car was packed and he got his wallet lifted, and also about the route 16 bus being
continuously overloaded. He cited one case where he and 4 people were asked to get off the
bus to accommodate a wheelchair passenger. He stated he is also handicap and if this
situation is not resolved he will file a lawsuit for discrimination against handicap people and
overloading of the bus.
Director Chacon indicated she had issued a GMR on this issue asking particularly why the bus
may have been overloaded at 2:30 p.m. in the afternoon.
Barb Steinmeyer spoke concerning the exclusivity negotiation with University Station. This
project has an overwhelming community opposition and she requested community

representation in the negotiation with the developer for this property.
Katie Fisher representing the University Station Neighborhood Group, expressed similar
concerns over the lack of community involvement in the negotiation and the potential negative
impact of adding more housing in an already saturated market.
Bernie Rogoff, National Guard Association, petitioned for an extension of the policy that was
adopted last year to allow free rides to military in uniforms. Bernie’s request is to provide free
rides for the duration of the war as a morale booster for the National Guardsman.
Director McMullen inquired what is the status of the National Guard and Bernie responded they
are fully deployed.
Cal Marsella indicated he would take this back to the Committee for review.
Andrew Bateman, Metropolitan State College of Denver Student Government Assembly,
expressed his disappointment in the proposed college pass increased and indicated they had
many questions without answers. He challenged RTD to explore options to reduce fare and
cited a $320K hit to their budget with the passage of this fare increase.
Brent Belisle representing the Disability Center for Independent Living, requested a bus stop
closer to the facility located at 5900 E. 39th Ave to accommodate their many customers with
multiple disabilities who are transit dependent and require access to the facility. The Center
currently serves 50-100 people with disabilities on a weekly basis.
James Thompson also advocated to have a bus stop close to the DCIL facility and shared his
personal health problems and issues with walking from the current stop to the center.
Barry Reiling, Project Manager for Laidlaw in Brighton, expressed thanks to RTD for having
served them previously on the Access-a-ride service and committed to a smooth transition to
the winners of the Access-a-ride paratransit contract that was on the agenda to be approved
by the Board later this evening.
Gary Lefman, Student Government at Metropolitan State, stated the current fare increase
proposal left a lot of questions including if RTD had exhausted other options such as better fare
enforcement before considering a fare increase. He urged the Board to vote no on the
proposal and pursue more creative solutions.
Deborah Keppas representing multiple groups for the disabled, stated that access is a civil right
and advocated for better accessibility for the disabled riders. She also voiced the need for
ASA equipment for subsequent meetings as she is partially hearing impaired.
Will Ryan, Student Government at Metropolitan State, spoke about the fare increase and
questioned why would the price increase when the quality of ridership is going down?
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Chair Martinez asked if there were any questions or additions to the minutes from the
Committee reports. Director Tayer indicated the audit minutes needed to reflect that they
planned to provide an opportunity for the Board members to provide input to the 2008
audit schedule.
Director Pulliam stated the Pension Trust Fund would be coming to the Board with
information in the November Study Session.

Readout from Hudson-Berger Tour
Director Daly shared their findings from the tour that he, Director Busck and Director
Kinton took of the Hudson-Berger line in New Jersey to acquire a better understanding of
PPP. He indicated the Hudson-Berger line in New Jersey was the first to run using DBOM
process. He shared the cars were low floor, double articulated which ran well but
experienced problems with snow over 12 inches. The most significant thing observed was
the TOD revitalization of this area from the “armpit” to a vibrant, growing area with
youthful and energetic riders of the system making connections to ferries and other mode
of transportation.
Director Busck echoed his report and complimented the Washington Group for providing an
objective opportunity to speak with mayors, government officials, contractors and users of
the system to hear firsthand of their experiences. He also commented on the quietness of
the system even at speeds exceeding 50 miles per hour. The few accidents experienced
with this system had to do with it being so quiet, people could not hear the train coming.
Director Kinton concurred with the findings and shared the ontime performance was 99.6%
and that the light rail trains had been in service for about 7 years, were very clean and
looked like new. Director Daly added that one feature that supported the quietness was
everything was on the roof.
Overall, the experience was quite positive and assuring of the benefits of PPP.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 21, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the AUGUST 21
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor (Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against. Directors
Brohl, Kemp. Quinlan and Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Closing on Federal Center Property-RTD, City of Lakewood, GSA, St. Anthony’s
Hospital
Cal Marsella stated they had closed on the property, creating a wonderful partnering
relationship between RTD, GSA and St. Anthony Hospital. He thanked Susan Altes and
Marla Lien for their role in this negotiation.
2. Meeting with Bob Greenlee-Issues on Northwest Corridor
Cal met with Bob Greenlee, now columnist with Boulder Daily Camera, who is a staunch
opponent of the US 36 recommendation. Bob had requested a meeting with the RTD
Board, mayors and commissioners along this corridor. Cal believes it is in the best interest
of RTD to conduct this meeting to review with the interested parties how we got to this
recommendation.
3. Meeting at CDOT on Rail Governance
Cal Marsella participated in a meeting with CDOT on Rail Governance to discuss what
might happen if the freight rail is relocated out East. Cal feels this is premature to discuss
and RTD is not ready to move ahead with governance.
4. Presentation to Birmingham Chamber of Commerce
Cal Marsella spoke to a group of Birmingham elected officials who were interested in

learning how did RTD develop its plans and obtain regional consensus and
endorsements from all the mayors and government stakeholders. Many of these
referrals are coming from FTA which Cal perceives escalates RTD
standings in Washington D.C. where decisions on funding occur.
5. Other Matters
Cal Marsella reminded the Board that the approved January service changes are predicated
on the approval of the fare increase. If the fare increase is not approved, RTD would need
to modify $7 million dollar which have been precipitated by fuel cost increases, ADA 10%
increase in program cost, and increased ridership. Cal Marsella corrected the perception
that profits would increase with increased ridership, stating there is an inverse relationship.
While he sympathized with the concerns that there is a disproportionate affect on poor
people, our fares are not out of line with other properties.
Director Daly noted that RTD does not charge for transfers whereas other properties do so.
VIII.

PUBLIC HEARING FOR 2007 FASTRACKS PLAN AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Chair Martinez read aloud the statement on public hearing. A copy of this statement is included
with these minutes. Hearing no discussion or request to speak, Chair Martinez closed the
public hearing.
Director McMullen commended the staff on the quality of the presentation.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director Kinton requested that items B&O is removed from the Unanimous Consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda excluding items B&O
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer, and Yamrick)
and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and
Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Lincoln Station Parking Garage License Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute a
License Agreement between RTD and the Lincoln Station Metropolitan District that
permits the use of 200 parking spaces at the Lincoln Station Garage for an initial term
of five years effective May 15, 2008 in exchange for compensation in the amount of
$40,000 per year. Notice to terminate the license may not be given by RTD prior to
June 1, 2009, and would provide for termination as of June 1, 2010.

C.

RTD Boundary Certification and Director District Designation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the Board
Secretary to certify the boundary map and description. It is further recommended that
lands newly annexed to RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be designated
as part of Director Districts F, G, H, I and K, as appropriate.

D.

Proposed RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks I-225
Corridor Environmental Study and Preliminary Engineering Phase
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute a proposed
RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks I-225 Corridor
Environmental Study and Preliminary Engineering phase. There is no financial impact
related to the approval of this IGA.

E.

Contract Amendment for Contract 16DM006 with Carnation Building Services, Inc. for
Light Rail Cleaning Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM006 by $260,000 to a revised contract amount of $508,000.

F.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM008 with Bear Creek Landscape for Snow
Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option year One and amend
contract 16DM008 by $150,000 to a revised contract amount of $317,706.

G.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 25DM006 with Carnation Building Services for
Snow Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 25DM006 by $336,424 to
a revised contract amount of $679,612.

H.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM009 with L&M Enterprise for Snow
Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM009 by $112,000 to a revised contract amount $250,739.

I.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM011 with All Phase Landscape for Snow
Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM011 by $171,700 to a revised contract amount of $392,512.

J.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM003 with Carnation Building Services for
Snow Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM003 by $758,000 to a revised contract amount of $1,558,636.

K.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM007 with Ground Service Company for
Snow Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM007 by $250,000 to a revised contract amount of $499,974.

L.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM010 with SaBell‘s Enterprises for Snow
Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option Year One and amend
contract 16DM010 by $353,000 to a revised contract amount of $775,036.

X.

M.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 26DM005 with Service Solutions, Inc. for
Custodial Services
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 26DM005 by exercising
the first option year of a one-year custodial services contract with Service Solutions,
Inc. in the amount of $809,556 to a revises contract total amount of $1,613,508.

N.

Contract Amendment for Contract No. 16DM012 with Quality Building Specialists, LLC
for Snow Removal
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise Option year One and amend
contract 16DM012 by $162,000 to a revised contract amount of $325,909.

P.

January 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors approve
moving the proposed January 13, 2008 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public
review and comment.

Q.

Contract Amendment to increase quantity of Mobile Digital Video Recorders for buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16FK013 with GE
Security, Inc. to add 50 digital video recorder units for replacement of the 7-year old
units currently used in the NABI articulated buses. The additional cost for the project is
$185,000. The funding for this contract amendment is provided by a grant from the
US Department of Homeland Security.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Items B and O were moved to recommended action for discussion before vote.
B.

Agreement for Exclusive Negotiation – University Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement providing for the exclusive negotiation
between RTD and University Station Developers, LLC, a single purpose limited liability
company to be formed by Mile High Development to provide for development at
University Station for a period of time not to exceed twelve months.
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein made the motion for approval to
proceed with an exclusive negotiation between RTD and
the developer.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Kinton asked what precedent is being set by
allowing for an exclusive agreement.
Cal Marsella responded a precedent has already been set
and the Board had approved a policy supporting this.
Director Pulliam shared three cases in the past and stated
that this is not a closed deal but allowed the developer
time to proceed with the necessary negotiation.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick)

and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and
Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
O.

Award of access-a-Ride Paratransit Services-rev
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into
contracts with four (4) service providers, MV Transportation, Global Transportation,
CUSA, and Special Transit, for the provision of access-a-Ride Paratransit Services.
These contracts are for three years with two (2) one year options. The combined
amount for the initial three (3) year contract term shall not exceed $78,524,200.
The combined amounts for the two (2) one-year options shall not exceed
$31,894,600 total in option year 1 and $35,376,400 total in option year 2. The
combined total amounts for these contracts shall not exceed $145,795,200 for the
five year period. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in
amounts estimated to total approximately $14,745,200 for the initial three year
contracts and $26,670,700 for the five year period. This results in combined
contract totals not to exceed $93,269,400 in total for the initial three year
contracts and $172,465,900 for the five year period. These proposals represent the
most responsive and responsible proposals received in response to Request for
Proposals (RFP) 17-DH-007, to provide Paratransit Services. The contracts to
provide this service are scheduled to be effective January 1, 2008.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion for the awarding of the
Access-a-ride Paratransit Services contract.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Kinton indicated that he had no concern but felt
this item should be voted singularly due to the dollar
amount of the contract.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick)
and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and
Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

R.

January 2008 Recommended Fare Policy Changes
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in attachment A,
to take effect beginning January 1, 2008.
MOTION:
Director Busck made the motion to approve the January
2008 recommended fare policy changes.

DISCUSSION:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
Director Chacon expressed some concerns with this
action, expressly the fact this is the second increase in 2
years, the disproportionate impact to people who are
least able to afford the increase (i.e. indigent, transit
dependent), inequitable subsidies such as the P-line, ADA
issues, and other concerns. Her concern is the impact on
people who do not have alternatives and she requested

that all options are fully examined before a fare increase
is approved. She would vote no on this action.
Director Busck concurred that the service level may need
to be reviewed but he supported the action for a fare
increase.
Director Yamrick indicated that both she and Director
Kinton had opposed this action in the Committee meeting.
Director Daly and others expressed a real need to obtain
some Federal funding to address the tremendous ADA hit.
Director Christopher expressed his sentiment also for the
impact on people who may not be able to afford but
stated we need to weigh the consequences of the
negative impact this will have on service if the Board
does not support a fare increase, citing sales tax down,
economic vulnerability and increase in diesel fuel costs.
He also stated RTD had provided a list of 172 agencies to
dispense discount program passes for indigent and transit
dependent.
Director Chacon corrected this statement to say we have
a list of agencies that can qualify but few of them
actually have purchased these discount programs.
Director Kinton echoed the concerns expressed by
Director Chacon and indicated he would also vote no. He
does not feel RTD has exhausted all options.
Director Tayer asked why the Access-a-ride cost
increases per ride versus the number of riders. Cal
Marsella stated it is both. Director Tayer indicated the
timing is inappropriate to increase the EcoPass and
request this is considered in the first or second quarter.
Directors Elfenbein, McMullen and Pulliam basically
agreed RTD needs to bite the bullet now to ensure we
stay financially sound and can maintain some basic level
of service throughout the district.
Chair Martinez summarized by stating this is a difficult
decision and he was concerned about the cash dependent
customers who were absent tonight. He requested
moving the discussion raised on service levels, ADA, fare
increases, public hearing access, etc to a parking lot item
and review in a Study Session before the end of the year
with a focus on “Are we doing the right thing”.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 9 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick) and 2 against
(Chacon and Kinton). Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and
Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

S.

Purchase Thirty 40 Foot and Thirteen 30 Foot Ultra-low Sulfur Diesel Heavy Duty
Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to exercise the option included in Contract 13DK005
with Gillig Corporation for 30 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 40 foot transit
buses and 13 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel 30 foot transit buses at a total cost not

to exceed $13,762,151. Funding for the purchase of these buses is available in the
2007 amended capital and expense budget.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to purchase thirty
40 foot and thirteen 30 foot Buses.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

This was a heavily discussed items with several concerns
raised on what is the leadership role RTD wants to take in
going green. Cal Marsella offered a potential solution that
it may be possible to use funds from the $5M rapid trust
reserve to purchase 5 hybrid buses. Some of the Board
members felt 5 buses were inadequate to demonstrate
commitment while others expressed concern over the use
of the reserve funds for this purpose. Concerns were
also expressed about the payback from investment in
hybrid buses. Other concerns were expressed about the
appropriateness of purchasing hybrids while raising fares
that affect the transit dependent.

AMENDMENT
TO POSTPONE:

Director Christopher amended the motion to postpone
voting on this item and take it back through the
Operations Committee for further analysis for a vote in
the October Board meeting.
Director Busck seconded this motion.

VOTE ON
THE AMENDED
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick)
and 0 against. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and
Ruchman were absent.
Chair Martinez declared this item will be postponed until
the October Board meeting.

T.

Approval of Updated 2007 FasTracks Plan and Financial Component
It is recommended by Executive Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt the
updated 2007 FasTracks Plan and Financial Component.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to adopt the updated
2007 FasTracks Plan and Financial Component.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Christopher expressed he thought this was a well
thought out plan and the assumptions were good.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 11 votes in
favor (Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Directors Brohl, Kemp, Quinlan and Ruchman

were absent.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.
XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:01 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, September 25, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Shirley Bennett
Susan Cohen
Phil Eberl
Jennifer Heisler
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Scott Roberts
Dean Shaklee
Errol Stevens
Georgann Van Gemert
Greg Yates

District B
District J
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Larry Buter
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Marla Lien
Brian Matthews
Bill Porter
Teresa Sedmak
Cal Shankster
Pauletta Tonilas
Sean Vonfeldt
Susan Altes

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
Roger Sherman (CRL Associates)
Holman Carter (ATU 1001)
Larry Warner (Parsons)
Jennifer Osborne
Mark Costello
Gerald Anderson
Russell Greear (IAMI)
Barb Steinmeyer (University Neighbors)
Katie Fisher (University Neighbors)
Ed Colby (Washington Group)
Tom Welch (Spectrum A/V)
Doug Gies (MV Transportation)
Bernie Rogoff (National Guard Association)
Bill Hipp (MV Transportation)
Andrew Bateman (Metro State College Student Government)
Will Ryan (Metro State College Student Government)
Anthony Rolson (DCIL)
Victoria Oliver (DPD)

Rick Clarke
John Dawson
David Genova
Lloyd Mack
Tony McCaulay
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Joe Smith
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington

Eric Biga (Veolia)
J. Arrowod
Barry Reiling (Laidlaw Transit Services)
Phunonglan Ngyuen (FRESC)
Brent Belisle (DCIL)
James Thompson (DCIL)
Jon Esty (Colorado Rail)
William James
Brad Langner (JP Morgan)
T. Vigil (KDVR)
Angel Rosales (KDVR)
Devorah Kappas (DCIL)
Sara Lee (Goldman Sachs)

