Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 1 of 11

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 12, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations and Customer
Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 12, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms,
R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, William Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill
Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, O’Neill
Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

David Genova, Lisa Trujillo, Cal Shankster, Susan Cohen, John Tarbert, Terry Howerter,
Phil Washington, Robert Merriman, Bob Lewis, Bill Van Meter, Liz Rao, Brain Matthews,
John Dawson, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Sherry
Ellebracht, Cal Marsella, Tony McCaulay, Nadine Lee, Karen Morales, Scott Reed, Ron
Dodsworth, Cheryl Holmes, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, John Shonsey, Marla Lien

Others Present:

Joe Kneib (Denver Transit Construction Group), Roger Sherman (CRL), Holman Carter
(ATU 1001), Eric Biga (Veolia), Bruce Behnke (Veolia), Debbie Champion, Steve Fisher,
Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Dave Minshall, Matt Cohen, Jack O’Boyle

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
a. Consulting Services-Geographical Information Systems – Bob Lewis, Senior Manager, Information
Technology, introduced this item. This is the last option year on a three year contract that
supports the District’s GIS system, which serves over 130 users in the District. Information
Technology does not have any staff that specifically works in this area.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to
initiate the second-year option with Idea Integration incrementally increasing the limit to $891,600
to extend the contract for Consulting Services and part-time GIS programming servicesGeographical Information Systems (16DK006). This contract was originally awarded in 2006 to
Idea integration through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus
two one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The second one

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 2 of 11
year option is to begin on September 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year until August 31,
2009. The annual limit is not to exceed $308,480.
Director Chacon spoke about for future contracts that come up for renewal have the DBE
component addressed and reviewed.
Director Yamrick asked if that six months before a contract goes out for option so that the Board
can have input on the process and make sure the DBE element is included in the contract.
Motion: Director Pulliam made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously (13 – 0)
Directors Brohl and Quinlan were not yet
present.
b. Authorization to Move Ahead with New Starts Application for East Corridor and Gold Line (PPP) –
Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager, Planning and Development introduced this action. The New
Starts applications for the Gold Line and East Corridors allows RTD to maintain consistency with
existing FasTracks financial plan and schedule assumptions. The submittal of the application by
September 5, 2008 allows RTD the opportunity to become eligible to access both Federal and
private sources of funding to support the FasTracks program.
It is recommended by the Financial and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
provide direction to the General Manager to submit the Gold Line Corridor, East Corridor and the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility projects for approval to enter into FTA’s New Starts program
by September 5, 2008. Submitting these applications will not preclude the RTD Board of Directors
from making any future decisions concerning the implementation of the overall FasTracks program.

Motion: Director Martinez made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.
Vote On
Motion: The motion passed unanimously (13-0)
Directors Brohl and Quinlan were not yet
present.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 3 of 11
c. 2008 Amended Budget - Phil Washington gave the introduction for this item. Robert
Merriman, Manager of Budget & Financial Analysis, pointed out the summary of the 2008
budget and explained that it is composed of six main items: 1) Staff is asking for an increase in
operating expenses of $7.3 million, primarily composed of fuel, 2) A $10 million decrease in
interest expense budgeted due to a delay in the issuance of the 2008 ACOPS as well as
favorable interest rates on commercial paper, 3) – New capital has an increase of 15.8 million
dollars, this is primarily an acceleration of already programmed FasTracks monies from future
years into the 2008 year. 4) The FasTracks contingency reserve had $7.6 million transferred
to the FasTracks capital program and the amended budget restores the contingency fund back
to the $30 million level, 5) The Transit Development reserved has been decreased $2.6 million
to reflect increases in fuel costs, decreases in projected Base System sales and use tax, offset
somewhat by higher than anticipated grant revenue and Base System investment income, 6)
Adjustment of Capital CarryFirward – The previously approved capital-carryforward has been
decreased by $49.6 million from the 2008 Adopted Budget to reflect fourth quarter 2007
actual expenditures, adjustments and project scope changes.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
Resolution No.___, Series of 2008 to amend and appropriate funds for the proposed 2008
Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation, by $10,455,280 to $892,438,867 as detailed
below in the Overview of the 2008 Budget Amendment, and to decrease the appropriation of
Capital Carryforward (Previously Approved Capital Funds) by $49,610,894 to $304,785,131.
The 2008 Amendment Appropriation includes the amounts in the August 2008 Amended column:
2008
Adopted

August 2008
Amended

Change

2008 Amended Operation Expenditures
2008 Amended Interest Expenditures
2008 Amended New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
2008 Appropriation

$382,905,106
$ 75,533,891
$388,544,590
$ 30,000,000
$ 5,000,000
$881,983,587

$390,236,116
$ 65,467,440
$404,341,667
$ 30,000,000
$ 2,393,644
$892,438,867

$7,331,010
-10,066,451
$15,797,077
$
0
-$ 2,606,356
$10,455,280

Previously Approved Capital

$354,396,025

$304,785,131

-$49,610,894

Director Ruchman spoke of a request he had made to revenue and expenses that come from the
FasTracks sales tax from the Districts revenue and expenses from the 6/10 of a cent sales tax the
District receives.
Robert Merriman explained that the funds were listed together in the summary and they are kept
separate in the books and budgeting. A greater separation of items is in the detail of the Amended
Budget Board Report.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 4 of 11
Director Ruchman asked if the FasTracks figures could be separated from the Base System figures
on the summary page. Staff responded that they would list it that way from now on.
Director Yamrick had several questions. She wanted to know if the new vehicles for access-aRide would be going to contractors. Cal Marsella responded that yes, the contractors will be
getting all the new buses since access-a-Ride service is performed completely by contractors. The
old buses are sold at auction in accordance with Federal guidelines.
Director Yamrick wanted to know if the Board was approving additional money for access-a-Ride.
Bruce Abel clarified that the Board approved more money for the contracts (contract authority) but
not more money for fuel, that’s what is coming forward now.
Director Daly asked about some line items on the budget. He was concerned about failure
component failure on the light rail lines and thought they should be under warranty. Cal Marsella
responded that the District is in negotiations with the contractors regarding whether this is a
warranty issue or a fleet defect.
Director Daly also had a question regarding some staffing issues regarding security. Dave Genova
explained that these were two vacant positions that are being moved over from light rail. Fare
inspection database has been maintained by light rail but it is now being moved over to
Safety/Security.
Director Daly also wanted to know about some costs in administration for medical exams and
advertising. Phil Washington explained that costs for drug and alcohol tests have almost doubled.
Director Quinlan asked about the Cost Recovery Ratio and how that number was calculated. Cal
Marsella explained that it is a State mandated calculation.
Director Chacon asked about how much cost does the District look at bringing some services
(such as medical testing) in house.
Cal Marsella requested that Phil follow up on this issue. Director Busck was concerned about the
ethics issues around doing test in house.
Director Christopher asked about the expenditures for the 16th Street Mall costs. John Shonsey
said the District is entering into a pilot program in regards to replacement of the pavers on the
mall. By 2012 the initial settlement associated with repairing the mall will be terminated. At that
time, RTD may turn the mall over to another entity to maintain. It is probably two to three years
before the paver program is revamped.
Director Brohl asked about the staff changes from light rail to Safety and Security. Staff
responded that this is really a budget transfer rather than an increase in the budget
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 5 of 11
meeting.
Second: Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously (15-0)
At this point Director Kemp moved Item II - Budget Update/2009–2014 TDP Preview to discussion. Phil
Washington presented Revenue Enhancements and Expense Strategies. There are three areas that staff
is looking at, the Projected Budget, the 2009-20014 TDP and long term prospects.
Phil Washington stressed that these are projections. Actual figures will be presented on August 21,
2008.
Terry Howerter gave an overview of the 2009 TDP Projected Budgeted Major drivers behind Changes
from 2008 Amended budget.
Phil Washington spoke about diesel fuel costs. The District is assuming a $4.55 per gallon cost for
2009. Almost 10% of the District’s budget is fuel.
Terry Howerter said that most cities are not meeting their budgeted projections.
Susan Cohen gave an overview of the 2009 base system budget summary estimate from 2009-20014
TDP changes from 2008 Amended Budget. There will be a 35.6 million dollar gap between the 2009
TDP and 2008.
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer reviewed some strategies to eliminate deficit including; fare
increase, EcoPass restructuring, advertising on trains, and deferral of intercity bus purchases until 2013.
A SB1 grant has been applied for to purchase half of those coaches. If the District receives that grant
they would only pay 80/20 on the coaches and that is figured into the savings.
Susan Cohen reviewed the 2009-20014 TDP revenue assumptions and 2009-20014 TDP Major Capital
Projects after 2009. She described it as a bare bones capital program to keep the system in good
repair.
Director Tayer would like to see the figures (assumptions) on diesel fuel, sales tax, and inflation
index specifically vetted by third party entities.
Director Ruchman asked about delaying some of the projects until later (purchase of new fareboxes and
radio system). Staff responded that the fareboxes are 23 years old. Radios must be replaced due to
FCC regulations. FCC is mandating a change in bandwith and the District must change out the radio
system to meet this deadline. Several Directors stated their support for the farebox replacement stating
the problem with public perception regarding fare evasion and non working fareboxes. Cal Marsella said
that the new fareboxes will be able to read fare cards and will give the District much better information
on pass utilization.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 6 of 11

Director Busck asked about losses delayed on bus purchases. Cal Marsella spoke about delaying the
purchase of the intercity coaches. The maintenance budget may need to be adjusted. Performance
measures may have to be adjusted for distance between breakdowns. Amount that it costs to delay
the replacement is much less than the capital expenditure.
Director Kemp spoke about the upcoming emission standards and how this replacement of buses may
be difficult to delay. He thought there may need to be a balance between refurbishment and
replacement.
Cal Marsella stated that if we receive the SB1 funds, half the buses would be replaced immediately. If
there are more funds that become available, bus replacement would be the first priority.
Director McMullen asked for talking points for the convention regarding the district’s needs and where
Directors could ask for a re-direction of Federal dollars.
Director Christopher spoke about the service reduction options. How many hours does a 1% service
reduction equate to? Phil Washington responded that is a 1% service reduction equals 1.3 million
service hours.
Director Christopher asked for specifics on how the diesel price affects the District. Every penny that
diesel fuel increases equals $100,000 increase for the District. He gave his support for the COP
approach with Capital equipment. He wanted to know how many years we were assuming. The
answer was ten years. Director Tayer asked if there was an early payment penalty. Teresa Sedmak
said there are different options available for early payment.
Director Elfenbein asked if we use the same boundaries as SCFD and the Metro Stadium District. Have
we checked with these organizations on the revenue assumptions? Staff responded that they would
check this.
Director Daly spoke about the options – he does not want to see advertising on light rail trains. He liked
the option of no service reductions.
Director Kinton asked about the farebox replacement, is there a plan to present the specifics for the
Board on the functionality of the fareboxes? Cal Marsella said the recommendation will be coming to
the Board soon.
Director Quinlan asked about salaries for staff – when was the last time they were frozen? Staff
responded 2003-2004.
d. Authorization to Take Fare Adjustments to Public Hearing – Bruce Abel gave an overview of this
action item. Staff recommendation is a 14% across the board increase in fares. This equates to 25
cents on local, 50 cents on regional and express, $1.00 for skyRide.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that RTD staff be directed to solicit public
input regarding staff recommended changes to RTD fare policy. The recommended changes would

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 7 of 11
increase cash fares for local, express, regional and skyRide service by approximately 14 percent and
would also include corresponding increases in other multi-ride tickets and passes. Following
consideration of public input, staff is further directed to present a final recommendation to the RTD
Board not later than the regularly scheduled Board meeting in October.
Director Quinlan asked about Regional and Express passes and how the percentage increase is
calculated for these passes. Staff responded that it is a 14% increase across the Board.
Director Martinez addressed the issue of the fare equity. He believes that the monthly passes are too
deeply discounted compared to the regular fare.
Cal Marsella spoke about the justification for monthly pass pricing. He stressed that the fare increase is
supposed to be a fuel surcharge.
Director Daly asked about doing away with transfers and Bruce Abel responded that staff is not
considering this option currently.
Director Yamrick wanted to know if there was a way to discount passes for social agencies. Cal
Marsella spoke about the discount token program and that there are over 200 agencies that distribute
the tokens to people who need help affording bus fares.
Director Chacon spoke about the discount token program and said that a lot of the non-profits can not
afford to purchase the tokens so this program is not as large as one might think. Most non-profits do
not have the ability to purchase the tokens on a regular basis.

Motion: Director Christopher made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously (14-0) Director
Ruchman left before the vote.

II.

2009 Performance Measures - Phil Washington introduced this item. Staff is asking for approval
on the performance measures.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors adopt
the 2009 Performance measures for Goals 1-6 and non-capital measures for Goal 7.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 8 of 11
Director Tayer spoke about adjusting a few of the performance measures. These are all goals the
District has no problems attaining; Director Tayer would like to see standards raised a bit. He
listed the following performance measures as ideas:
1.1 – safety incidents - moving the goal to 1.8
2.2 – vehicle complaints – move it to .4
3.3 Miles between Road calls increase it to 600 hours
4.4 – website hits to 3.3 million
6.6 stock outs decrease it to .5%
Cal Marsella said staff would look at these items and see if there was a budget implication. The
updates will be in the Board packet before the August 19, 2008 Board meeting.
Director Brohl said that the goals that Director Tayer is proposing are already being met and that
she didn’t necessarily think they would affect the budget.
Motion: Director Elfenbein made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Quinlan seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously (14-0)

III. Authorization to Implement the Parking Management Program – Dave Genova gave a brief overview
of the implementation. It would be phased in. Maximum number of consecutive dates would be
changed from 30 to 15.
Cal Marsella requested that there be a mechanism for prior approval if you need to stay longer than
15 days.
Dave Genova spoke about the reserved parking spaces and that if there is a large response the spots
would be reserved by lottery.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to implement the 2008 Parking Management Program as detailed in the
attached document entitled “2008 Parking Management Program” dated August 2008.
Director Daly voiced his dissatisfaction with the program. He felt it was not fair to a lot of the patrons
that use the Pine Junction park-n-Ride.
Motion: Director Busck made a motion for

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 9 of 11
full approval before the Board
at the August 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.
Vote On
Motion: The motion passed 13-1 (Director Daly opposed)

IV.

Budget Update/2009–2014 TDP Preview - This item was discussed under Recommended
Actions, Item C.

V.

Second Quarter 2008 Investment Report – Teresa Sedmak gave this information item. During
the second quarter of 2008, the total return on the District’s unrestricted portfolio slightly
outperformed benchmarks. The current yield of the total unrestricted portfolio (including all
sub-portfolios) through the second quarter of 2008 was 4.60%, resulting in investment
earnings of $11,149,623 to the District. The current return for the month of June was
4.25%.

VI.

Second Quarter 2008 Performance Report - There were no questions on this item.

VII.

June Financial Status Report – There were no questions on this item.

VIII.

Sales and Use Tax Forecast RFP Update - John Dawson, Purchasing Agent, gave this update.
Based on staff’s recommendations they put the RFP out and got four responses. One firm
was significantly qualified but the price was too high. Staff was looking for Board direction
on what they wanted to do as they felt the window was lost for input on the 2008 budget. It
was the sentiment of the Board not to continue with this project. Chair Kemp said the Board
considered this item closed.

IX.

Democratic National Convention Update – Phil Washington gave this update. Mr. Washington
referred to the brochure that the Directors have received that outlines the impacts to RTD
service. The website has been updated and TIC operators have been briefed. RTD is
expecting to sign some contracts this week to provide some service to the Pepsi Center and
also Invesco Field. There are discussions with the railroads in regards to service on Thursday
after the speech so that patrons can get across the tracks.
Director Quinlan spoke about the condition of Stapleton park-n-Ride and that it needs to be
cleaned up before the delegates arrive. Dave Genova addressed that some clean up has
already begun at this site and he had before and after photos available.
Director Quinlan also asked if delegates would receive free rides. The response was that they
do not get free rides but over 4,000 passes have been purchased for delegates.
Director Martinez asked about light rail service on Thursday for the Invesco Field acceptance

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 10 of 11
speech. Phil Washington said that light rail will not operate North of Invesco, Monday –
Wednesday but that on Thursday the route will operate but not stop at Pepsi center. Mr.
Washington reiterated that this is all subject to change.
Director McMullen asked if RTD would be running “Broncos Ride” type service to Invesco
Field on Thursday night. Security is not allowing anyone to park around Invesco field so the
District will not be allowed to operate this service. Staff is looking at an alternative to
Broncos Ride service.
Phil Washington said that the District is subject to Secret Service decisions and they could
change plans at any time.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee and Operations & Customer Services Committee held on
Tuesday, August 12, 2008
Page 11 of 11
X.

General Manager Report
a. Presentation to Transportation Legislative Review Committee – Cal said the felt the
presentation went well. The Chair of the review Committee was very appreciative of Board
Member attendance. There were a lot of questions.
b. Presentation to Metro Mayors Caucus – This was Cal’s initiative to give the Mayors an update
regarding FasTracks. Noel Busck and Lee Kemp also attended. Everyone wants FasTracks
built as soon as possible without cuts. There is a lot of unease over money and finances. Cal
Marsella stressed that the original FasTracks plan was blessed by DRCOG.
c. Access-A-Ride Services – Staff is seeing a lot of progress regarding complaints. Cal feels that
the District has turned a corner and that the district will stay with the Route Match system.
d. Federal Railroad Administration Meeting – There was a meeting with the Federal Railroad
Administration and three major problems with DUS were discussed: length of platform
provided for Amtrack, use of tracks for through service, and grade coming into DUS. Good
progress has been made and the District has received approval to negotiate directly with
Amtrack.
e. Contract Negotiations-Denver Union Station – This item will be discussed in Executive Session.
f. Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and Relocation to Platte – The Denver Post building is no
longer an option for the bus barn.
g. Preview Annual Program Evaluation – August 21, 2008 will be the FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation and Cal encouraged the Board to attend.
h. Peer Review – APTA is here conducting a Peer Review. They were out all day today riding the
system and visiting different components of the service. There will be a debriefing on the Peer
Review Friday morning, August 15, 2008.
Director Elfenbein spoke about the cost increases for FasTracks and mentioned the cost of diesel
fuel. When FasTracks was voted on diesel was $1.11/gallon.
Director Tayer thanked Cal for the Metro Mayors meeting and stressed the importance of keeping
the lines of communication open.
Director Martinez spoke about meeting with the Peer Review team this morning and that the team
received a copy of the resolution. Director Daly added that he spent the day with the team and
was really impressed with the caliber of the team.
Director Kemp also met with the team and had positive things to say about it.

XI.

Motion to Move into Executive Session – Director Quinlan made a motion to move to
Executive Session. Director Christopher seconded the motion.

XII.

Executive Session – The Committee moved into Executive Session at 8:45 p.m. to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Contract Negotiations: DUS – USNC Negotiations

XIII.

Adjourn – The Committee adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

