May 14, 2020
GMES-GMOC
Teaching and editing. And so if I could go through the-- Director Cook offered some suggestions
this morning as well via email. So I'd like to turn it over to Director Cook-- pardon me? All right,
thank you, bye. Did somebody else join the call?
I see Director Lewis joined.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep, I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. All right, just to reiterate, John McKay sent
around six documents this morning that we can reference during this meeting. I started by saying
that I heard from a number of you that you preferred the short version that Gregg circulated
yesterday with perhaps some rearranging and trimming even further. And Director Cook had sent
an email this morning with some suggestions. So I'd like to turn it over to her now for her thoughts.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Catlin. I partly did this because I'll have to leave
the call pretty quickly to get to my class. But basically, I don't know exactly how we're going to
be doing our advertising and whether the job description where we have the short version is now
the main part of that release. But I've wanted to suggest that our main advertised job description
be more similar to what Pauletta had put together for our interim search.
It kind of captures you know the dynamism of the individual, the fact that we're seeking a leader.
And then include the more detailed, short version in the link where somebody goes to see the full
job description available. I just thought the format of the release and the way that it's worded is
more descriptive in a sort of intriguing or appealing way would be more eye catching and more
likely to appeal to the kinds of persons that I think we're talking about attracting. So I don't know
if that made sense. But I've put it in sort of shortened version of that in the email that I sent to you
all.
And again I'm just assuming that what we were talking about is the short job description might in
fact turn up in the release and so forth. And I thought that way we had done it previously was more
appealing. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. I'm just going to go through the list to see what
other directors are thinking. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. I was just looking for my notes. I'll start by seconding that motion I
think that-- I guess it's not a motion, whatever it is. You know, we're looking for a leader. We're
looking for someone who will bring vision and inspire the team. And I'd like to see us lead with
that.

I liked what Pauletta had done before. I had suggested that we moved the About section to an
attachment. And I still would suggest that as a fifth bullet under Transit Management starts talk
about some of the features I think that we want. I don't have it in front of me right now. I've got to
find it again, in terms of a leader, someone who inspires and move things forward. So I think,
innovative, and you know, to me, those and building relationships and listening to our partners and
making decisions inclusively with our partners, I think are some of the main things we're looking
for. So I would support Director Cook's suggestions and add those.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does everybody have the short version that Gregg provided up in front of them?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll get it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think that might be helpful as we talk through this. Director Lewis, your
thoughts.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, thank you. I have the number of thoughts. I actually am not far from what
Director Cook has put forward. In my conversations with Greg had shared some of this about really
looking-- asking us as a board and as a staff, as an agency, what are the outcomes that we hope
that folks have the ability to do and what questions we're asking in that regard. I do think that
someone who is a visionary is really, really important.
I also shared that, I wanted to, and I didn't know how to explicitly say this, but I would love to see
someone who is able to present a vision during the face of a pandemic. And what's really important
to me, I mean if we know our history and about public transit and how-- about public
transportation, its richness in injustice and equity inclusion and diversity. And so not having a
leader that only embraces that but leads in that way, and really centers the experiences of those
that are most marginalized and on the margins and those that are most vulnerable in our decision
making. And so someone who can bring that vision forward.
I did have a question, because I was looking through the email that John sent and I don't see what
you all are referencing when you talked about what Pauletta had sent previously. And so I may
just be missing something. Happy to look through my inbox again and add some thoughts once I
have that document in front of me.
SHELLEY COOK: Shontel, that was sent out as a second one. I'll post it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did you have something to say, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, so it was sent separately. It wasn't forwarded with my email and I
apologize for that. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK.
SHELLEY COOK: I think Barbara then subsequent to that did send another one that just had the
interim release. That's the name of the PDF file.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK, let me take a look at that and I might have something to add. So
sorry I didn't see that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I'll circle back to you, Director Lewis. OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I've spent time looking at Gregg's two versions, the short and the full
version, and really thought what-- I, like the full version. The more information, the better to me,
the thing I was thinking about with the short version is that just better fit some places where one,
we are paying by word. There may be space limits.
We don't want it to be like a full page of this. But I liked those versions. I did not get to spend as
much time with the versions that I've just seen today. So, am I understanding right that when we
are talking about this, the suggestion or one of the suggestions that came up is, let's say it's the
Wall Street Journal or whichever one of the various media outlets, we will be putting the short
version combined with Pauletta's wording. Is that what I understood? And then the full version say
at our website and the media outlet article or the advertising would link to that full?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten, this is Peggy Catlin, we're just talking about ideas right now.
And one of the proposals that Director Cook put forward was that we lead with some of that
language that Pauletta had in that release in November. And that perhaps we take the-- in the
shorter version about RTD and either have it as an attachment or a reference. And then have the
rest of the document there. That's just a proposal that-SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, Yes, ma'am,
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook. Yeah, in terms of what I was proposing, And again, I'm not real
familiar with how Mr. Mosher would get this out, but to the extent we are advertising, I would
think that the Pauletta release which is narrative in summary and, you know as I say, captures some
sizzle or conveys some sizzle, that that would be what we'd list and then linked to or provide
information about how to get to the full job description which I am assuming is the shortened
version from Mr. Mosher,
OK, but to Director's point-- that that's still up for discussion. That's why I'm going through and
asking Directors to give their thoughts, and then I would like to turn it over to Gregg Moser
afterwards to understand his thinking as we move forward.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Then I'll just close with my summary. It's Natalie. I was very
happy with Mr. Moser's job description. The long version is what I especially focused on. I didn't
do a word-by-word comparison on the short and assume that there were only trimmings done.
But the fact that it concentrated on some long-term things past the pandemic-- I liked that. It talked
about efficiencies, which, of course, to me is very important. So that's where I sit with this. I
apologize that I didn't quite put everything together in a final version there. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. And as I spoke with Gregg before he sent out the
shorter version, what I think he really did with the long version to the shorter version was make

sure that he got rid of some of the redundancy that had appeared in the longer version. Even though
there were some subtle differences, I think he tried to combine or trim in that way. Director RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. That was exactly my comments and
after talking to my buddy-- was that there we just needed to do a tighter edit because there were
some redundancies in this. And I think that Pauletta's components are really great. I mean, it was
very successful for us doing the interim General Manager position, which was not that long ago.
So I think that we can just build on those successes. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Malpiede. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I liked the short version a lot. The long version captured everything
everybody to say. The second one is really tight. And I think the folks that'll be interested in this
or qualify for this will be more focused on getting to the meat of it.
I'm fine with using Pauletta's release as, I guess, the lead in the advertised job description. If I
understand correctly, the full text of either the lead or the job description wouldn't be in any one
document like APTA or a path to transport. But there would be a really short summary that would
lead someone to investigate the website, RTD, and then KAs, or Krauthamer. And that's where
they would get the full four-page document of the job description.
Can somebody mute their phone? I hear pages turning. Thank you.
So I like the short version. It's really tight. Gets to the heart of it. Pauletta's description here, with
some editing to make it current, is fine. I was looking to see if there was anything else.
Item number three on Shelley's email-- I don't know if that needs to be on the job description itself.
I'm indifferent, but I just don't think it adds anything to the job description because anybody who's
looking at it already knows that we're looking for someone. That's it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. I'm going to do a check-in to see if either Director
Whitmore or Buzek has joined us yet? OK. General Manager Ballard, would you like to offer some
comments?
PAUL BALLARD: No, I'm fine. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, now I'm going to turn it over to Gregg. Gregg, if you could give us your
thoughts and how you came to this point and what you might suggest based on her assistant's
proposal.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, thank you. So as you saw, there was a very long version of the job
description. I tried to do a brain dump of everything I had heard from all of the directors. And I
think, to Director Catlin's point, there were definitely redundancies, and there were redundancies
within sections and then across the document itself. And I think that I was trying to highlight where

various directors had input as to what was important to them for various aspects of the job. And
there were some slight subtleties amongst those redundancies.
But what I then did was, based on all the feedback on that long version-- and again, thank you all
for your feedback, because there was quite a bit of very good feedback. I made sure to incorporate
that in the long version so that I had all of those comments reflected in there. And then I basically
went with a fine-tooth comb, more or less, and read it line by line and started to cut out things that
looked redundant to me, that didn't really add a tremendous more value to the document, to cut out
what was about four pages.
And as you can see, some basic information, like how many buses RTD operates-- I think that, in
the very long version, that's great. But on a shorter version, that's the kind of information that's not
necessarily necessary for the reader, for the person interested in the job. And quite candidly, when
I talked to Dr. Catlin yesterday about reducing some of those redundancies, I think we both agreed
that that should be some of the responsibility of the person coming in, that as they prepare for an
interview or as they're interested in the job, they ought to be able to look up those things. And if
they can't, then they're probably not the type of candidate we're looking for in a CEO, if they can't
do that fundamental diligence. So that was the thought process behind removing some of that extra
information.
So I think we've gotten it down to about 3 and 1/2, just under 4 pages. I think that adding that
sentence that was suggested by Director Cook-- I think it's perfectly fine to add a line like that into
the job description. It's not going to extend it much longer.
I can appreciate that there is a value added by having a longer and more detailed job description. I
think that even the three to four-page one does offer pretty robust information for a candidate. And
I think that the documents sent by Paulette is a good brief summary to hook the reader and capture
the audience. And then say, for more information and for the complete job description, click here- would be a nice and appropriate way of doing it.
I think that, to Director Menten's point, there are certain publications that we can advertise in that
don't restrict length, so we could put the full job description in there, or we could put the shorter
version. And then one of the directors mentioned the possibility, for APTA, having a shorter
version. APTA does charge by the word. It gets pretty expensive pretty quickly. So I think we can
have even a shorter version of Pauletta's document go into APTA with, for more information,
contact Gregg. Visit RTD's website to obtain the full job description. So I think that that's perfectly
appropriate, and that's not going to not yield a good candidate.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. I did mention that I would circle back to Director Lewis.
Did you have anything additional to add at this time?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't. I'm so sorry. I was on mute, and I'm trying to navigate back to the
team's call. So I don't. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: We all have those challenges. Thank you. I just had mentioned that I was going
to circle back and wanted to make sure I caught you.

OK, if I might summarize, then, that we will lead off with Pauletta's language to capture the reader
and then proceed with the short version of the job description via a link. Or if there isn't a length
restriction, it could be put in its entirety and then proceed from there. Is there any objection to that
process?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sounds fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm good with it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you all.
So Gregg, are you clear with how we're going to proceed, then, and that we do have consensus on
the job description?
GREGG MOSER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, great. Next on our agenda is the stakeholder outreach overview and next
steps. So you have in there a executive search stakeholder spreadsheet, and you were asked to
provide any additional items. And I know that Director Lubow had provided some.
So I'm looking at this spreadsheet as somewhat of a dynamic document that, if some other agency
or someone else comes to mind, that we can ask Gregg to add to it, but I think this is a really good
start. In fact, it's a very comprehensive start. Gregg, could you please address how you plan to
proceed in your strategy for moving forward on the stakeholder outreach and next steps, please?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, absolutely. And again, thank you for everybody for your input. So there's
a lot of people on this. There's a lot of people to contact. And as you can see, I have email addresses
and phone numbers for certain individuals on this list, and I don't for other individuals. And even
for some organizations, I have an organization suggested but no point of contact for that
organization.
So there was discussion during our last series of calls about a primary and secondary outreach, and
primary being those folks we wanted to involve immediately, maybe some direct outreach. There
was some discussion about members of the general assembly, members of the governor's office,
folks like that. I think that we should post the job and start the recruitment process, and I can very
quickly start reaching out to those people as I'm also sourcing and identifying candidates.
I think that the question really comes down to-- of this list, there are approximately 60
organizations on here. It's maybe a little bit less. Maybe there's 55, because I'm trying to take out
the lines that say "secondary outreach" or "other recommended outreach," things like that.

And so I suppose the question is, of these, which are the primary targets that I'm going to reach
out to. And then I think one Director had suggested that an email might be sufficient to reach out
to folks via email. And is there some we want to save towards the backend of the process? So some
level of direction onto which are primary and which are the most important to get that personalized
outreach would be very helpful.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Gregg, I appreciate that. And I think we also talked about utilizing
our liaison, whether it be CRL for local governments and Brandeberry-McKenna for the legislative
folks. And I don't know where we are on that effort. Director Guissinger, have you talked to them
about that at all or worked through Sherry to see how we could leverage some of those resources?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I talked to Brandeberry-McKenna and gave some feedback, and it was
along the same lines as what Paul Ballard had said in the last time, which is-- the leadership, the
speaker, the Senate Majority leader, the chairs of the two transportation committees-- it would be
nice to give them a phone call, although, as I told Gregg in my email to him, they're up to their
eyeballs and probably won't call back. But it's just a nice thing.
And I'm looking at this list, and I do think a lot of these people-- just an email would be plenty. I
don't think you need to be, in my opinion, calling most of these people. I think that Sherry talked
to Roger. And I think I saw something, but I'm not sure if his list got in there. Does anybody else
know that?
Yes, that was forwarded to Gregg. And Gregg, I'm assuming that the list from Sherry Ellebracht
and Roger Sherman was incorporated in this master list?
GREGG MOSER: That is correct, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So we're covered there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might, I'd like to suggest that, if we're sending
out emails, just to add a line that says, if you know of someone else, please forward this to them,
might be helpful.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's an excellent idea. And I'm going to go through the list again-each individual Director. But I have another suggestion, and that is adding a column to the
spreadsheet that maybe says the date and the method by which a person was contacted and whether
a message was left or whatever, just so we have some sort of tracking so we have a trail of contact
so that people know that they'd been at least we tried to reach them. Does that make sense? Would
that be possible, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would be helpful for us to even know where we've done outreach.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. I'd also like to say that there probably will
be some redundancies when we send all of the communications out through our communications
group through .gov to some of these folks on the spreadsheet. But the press release will go out
through .gov with all of the information to all of the extensive list of stakeholders that RTD
Communications communicates with on a regular basis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for pointing that out. Then, in addition to the suggestion that Chair
Rivera-Malpiede stated, since people tend to get annoyed if they receive a communication from
more than one source, if we could say something about-- you may have already been notified of
this via .gov, but just wanted to reach out to you personally to let you know that we're embarking
on this search. So that might be better.
I think I heard somebody else join the call. Could you identify yourself, please? Hello?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn. I just am looking at this, and I would just talk about-- it looks
to me like the phone calls could be limited pretty roughly to the first nine people or so. And then
plus add in maybe the governor's office and the mayor's office, just as a suggestion. And emails
could go to others.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right. I don't know if Director Cook has dropped off the line yet to go
to her class or not. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm still here but getting ready to.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, well, then I'll let you offer comments first.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks very much for everything. I'm glad we're getting things ready to
go, and thank you for the ideas. But one thing I wanted to bring up-- I don't know if we actually
explicitly talked about it, but do we really want to make the bachelor's degree not mandatory? I
would think at this level it would be mandated but wanted to open that up for a question for the
group as a whole.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I think in the wording it said people without a
degree would be considered if they have the management skill and combination-- years of service,
both on the short and long-term. Did I not read that correctly?
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe you did, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to go through the list one-by-one, and that might be the most efficient.
Director Cook, are you done then?

SHELLEY COOK: I am. Signing off. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
I see that the telephone number 218-443-1272 joined the call. Can you please identify yourself?
I'll give you an opportunity to unmute and identify yourself, please? Well, we do have somebody
who is on the call with the last four digits 1272.
Director Lewis, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Were you at me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I was at Guissinger. I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all right.
PEGGY CATLIN: I interrupted myself.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I had the same reaction. And I think, in terms of education, I feel the
bachelor's degree is highly desired. And then the last sentence, has an equivalent combination
education and experience will also be considered-- you could leave the last one in and still say a
bachelor's degree is required. It just seems like that's really minimal. I think I've given my other
comments that could-PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I think Gregg does have some thoughts about that verbiage. Do you want
to respond to that at this point, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, so I don't know what the division is, but I think there's a split amongst
folks as to whether a bachelor's degree is essential or not. So what I tried to do was provide some
language that that maybe comes somewhere in the middle. And so what I tried to do was indicate
that a bachelor's degree and even an advanced degree is ideal in this situation. But at the same
time, experience in lieu of that would be possibly considered. And I tried to provide strong
language that it is really preferred but yet not required. It leaves the door open.
And like I think I said before, I've been through searches where I've done it both ways. I've had
certain searches where the boards have felt very strongly that this person needs to have a degree.
And I've worked with boards that felt that we should be open-minded. And there's really no right
or wrong approach.
My only comment is that, by using language such as what's written in the current short version, it
allows you to cast the net wide, and you always have the ability to narrow it down. So at the end
of the day, if you have two candidates that look almost identical to you in terms of their experience
and one has a degree and one doesn't, you could use that as a differentiating factor. I don't believe
that that's discriminatory or a violation of any HR hiring. You're not choosing them based on what
college they went to. You're just simply choosing it based on having a degree. This person has a

little bit more education or criteria. So it allows you to cast that net a little bit wider and then allow
you to filter it down from there.
On the other hand, it casts the net wider, so that is the downside of it. So again, there's no right or
wrong answer. That was my thought process, was to try to come up with something that would
bring everyone together. And it's not going to be perfect for either side because of the fact that, if
you believe that this person must have a degree, obviously it opens that door up. And at the same
time, if you're open to someone who doesn't, it's really strongly indicating that you really ought to
have a degree or we believe the ideal candidate will have a degree. So that was the thought process
behind why I drafted the language as I did.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Gregg. And as I like to say, I believe Bill Gates does not have a
degree. So we want to make sure if the next Bill Gates walks through the door, we don't have to
automatically rule them out.
Director Guissinger, did you have anything else to add?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Not right now, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And this is just regarding the degree, right? You
just want me to respond to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, actually, what I'm trying to canvass is not only for the description and the
degree but also the outreach, the executive search stakeholder outreach. That was the agenda item
we were on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, sorry. I got a bit confused, and I wanted to make sure I was responding
to the proper question. So for the outreach, I'm actually comfortable with what Director Guissinger
has suggested and what you've suggested. I think there are some folks who should receive a phone
call, and I think the way in which they're listed are probably the ones who are going to receive a
phone call anyways. But I do think an email is sufficient.
And I also really like Director Malpiede's suggestion of adding a line that says, if you know
someone, to send this out as well. One of the things that I saw to be missing was the different
chambers, so the black chamber or the Asian chamber or things of that notion that are very specific
to targeting different demographics, and so just calling that out. So that's one piece.
In response to the bachelor's degree required, I think I was the one who initially brought this up
because I was just concerned that we might screen folks out that we may have interest in simply
because they didn't have access to education. And so for me, it's a deeper issue. And I think if you
take the time to think about our history and to think about the folks who have had access to
education and those who have not, I think one might understand why I take that position. And to
your point, Director Catlin, I appreciate you saying that Mr. Gates does not have a degree, because

there are many folks who do not have degrees, and their competency is not actually attached to
their ability to achieve. And so I think that's important to say.
And so those are my comments. Happy to go with what the group decides. It is a bit out of line for
industry standards. And I think I would have a question for Gregg if this is a discussion, because
it's not on our agenda. But if this is something that we'd like to discuss about, whether or not a
degree is required, I would just be curious if you've done this both ways, with both requiring a
degree and then not having that degree at all-- what that has looked like and what you've seen in
terms of the quality of candidates.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I'm happy to respond to that. So I have two examples to tell you-- the
search that required a degree, a midsize agency, I would say. And a candidate, a current CEO
wanted to apply for the job, and the job description said, degree required, and he didn't have a
degree. And this was recent. This was in the last year and a half. And so he didn't apply for the
job. And he was a CEO at another agency. So that was a situation where someone ended up not
applying for the job.
I had another search where I was doing, and we had this exact discussion. And the board decided
to require a degree. And as I presented resumes of the top candidates, they said, was there anyone
else that you thought was really interesting? And I said, well, there actually was somebody. And I
shared the resume. And they said, the resume looks great. Why would we not consider this person?
They were a COO at another very progressive, large, multi-modal agency.
And I said, the only reason I didn't put it forward was the person doesn't have a degree. They were
in the military. They had gotten some education when they were traveling around the world serving
in the military and gotten their educational credits from various colleges and just hadn't put it all
together and actually gotten the degree. I think there were few credits short, also.
And so, lo and behold, believe it or not, that's the person they ended up hiring. And what ended up
happening was we had to bring legal counsel in because they got through the interview process.
They wanted to interview him despite the fact he didn't have a degree.
And we had to bring legal in and open the process back up and repost the job for a period of time
to allow people to change the job description and allow people to go through and apply for the job
if they wanted to because we couldn't just simply hire him. It was going to create a situation,
potentially putting the organization at risk for a lawsuit, to hire someone that didn't meet the criteria
of the job description. So those are two examples of situations that I've dealt with where the degree
was required and people didn't have it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate you providing those examples.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I believe that the language as we have it in there now gives us that
flexibility without creating a liability as we move forward. Are you comfortable with that, Director
Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Before I answer that, if I say, lean on the expert here. Gregg, have you seen
this blend that you've presented forward to this? Is this the first time you've done this specific
thing? I know this is not the first time you've hired folks. Is this the first time you've presented this
blend?
GREGG MOSER: This is pretty frequent. And this is a conversation that takes place in nearly all
the CEO-level recruitments with boards I have, is this specific-- do you want to require a degree
or not require a degree? And so for those situations where the organization's willing to be more
open and consider people that don't have degrees, I do usually put a preference of a degree to at
least indicate that that would be a desire of the organization if at all possible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anything else, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does give me pause to just not explicitly just strike out the requirement,
specifically because it does state a minimum of 10 years executive management experience. And
I would imagine that they would probably get more from that 10 years of experience than four
years of a degree and be usable, tactical, strategic behaviors that they might be able to implement
to be effective and efficient in their jobs.
And it also gives me pause from an equitable hiring practices. It just speaks to unconscious biases
that we aren't bringing to the table. And so I think I'll speak my piece. It's certainly not a sword to
die on. I think the candidates that we have the opportunity to review-- we deserve those candidates.
And so I think I'll leave it there. Thank you so much, Director Catlin. I appreciate you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm one of the ones that feels very strongly on not having a
requirement. This will sound a bit harsh. But if I was to put a value on a college credit versus real
life experience, a real life experience is going to come in at a much higher value for the agencies,
for the public, for the taxpayers, for the writers. I feel very strongly on it. And I think we, as a
group, are able to go through that and determine what might best fit us. So I'm just one of those
who feels really strongly about that and not narrowing the field based upon somebody who spent
time learning English literature or something that perhaps doesn't exactly help a bus rider.
Let's see. Outreach-- you said that's fluid, so I'm good with that. I did fall behind on adding some
names. But the way I'm viewing this is that I can simply pick up the phone or send an email and
take that self responsibility to do that. Because I fell behind, I'm not getting it in the list. And as
was suggested, we're going to have it in there any way that people should pass it on.
One small note-- again, just looking at free advertising-- if there were some way to perhaps have
that summary, very brief for us, this was sent to us so that I can reach out to city of Lakewood,
have them put it on channel 8 so that we've got that when the time is right. There's another just
free media type things. Every bit helps. I think that's all of the comments that I have. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. If I could make a plea, though, just so that we
can have a rather comprehensive outreach list, that when any Director does an independent contact
that they at least keep a record of it and then let our communications people know, that would be
great. OK, thank you.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I think a lot of stuff has
been covered already. And I also think that the outreach is also-- I know it's a fluid document, and
I'm going to be thinking if there's anyone else on here that I think should be contacted. But I, like
Natalie Menten, will do the same thing, will outreach to people when I think about them or send
them information but will copy Ms. McManus so she knows exactly who I've done outreach to.
But I would assume that all 15 board members might take that opportunity as well. So other than
that, I don't have any comments. Thanks, Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And actually, as you all are talking to your
buddies, you might want to let them know that they are welcome to go ahead and reach out during
this process as well. There still is somebody else on the line who has not identified themselves.
Looks like it's a Minnesota area code. Could you please state who you are?
NATE MINOR: I'm sorry. It's Nate Minor at CPR.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Nate. The mystery caller's been identified. OK.
NATE MINOR: Sorry, everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: No need to apologize. All right. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. I notice that there's no one on from a federal delegation on the
outreach list. And I'm wondering if that's by design or just an oversight or what.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, would you like to respond to that? I think we can certainly add add that
to the Squire Patton Boggs contact. We can put them on that.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I figured, since we go out there when we can to talk to them, visit with
them, that would be nice. And I imagine everybody at the state assembly, our state reps and our
state senators from the metro area, would be contacted, even though they're not all listed here.
Some of them are. I imagine all of them would want that same consideration, even if there's nothing
that they want to do with it. It's just the outreach would be nice.
Everything else as far as the outreach is fine. I added a couple names and organizations. I can
follow those up with actual contact info. I just gave names, but I'll get the contact info for those
also.

Regarding the degree, I don't think it's necessary. I've been on the leadership APTA committee for
a few years now, and a lot of the folks who come through that don't have degrees. A lot of them
do. I think most of them do. But a lot of them do not. But they're still there and I think their
experience, their stick-to-itiveness, their grit, whatever you want to call it, gets them to a level
where it's anticipated that they'll take that C-suite at some point.
If we were talking a lower level, then maybe a degree does show that level of experience, even if
it's not real world experience, at least book experience. But I think at this level, somebody that we
would consider would have the amount of experience, whether or not it's real world or college
level, so I'm fine with leaving that requirement as written because it does leave the door open for
folks who went another route besides college. And that could be military or started driving buses
when they were 18. That's it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I need to warn people in advance that there might be a lawnmower
going on outside here, so I'm going to try and keep my phone on mute as much as possible. I
wanted to circle back with a comment that Director Lewis made about some of the chambers and
other communities. And I think that, Barbara, we should probably check in with Zamy Silva and
some of the folks that she does outreach with to make sure that we're as inclusive as we can be.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Sorry to interrupt you. Thank you so much, Director
Catlin. I really appreciate that. That's exactly what I was getting to, really being specific about
targeting people who, in order for us to get a diverse pool of candidates-- diverse in race and
thought and experience, et cetera, et cetera-- but I think that's a great idea. I really appreciate you
thinking about-- And even with the city and county of Denver, I know we lost Adrina.
PEGGY CATLIN: Michael.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Adrina to the city and county of Denver. But she may have a list of
folks that she just may know, and so just thinking about how we can target more diverse folks who
may not usually be on our radar. Thank you so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, You're welcome. All right. Have either Directors Whitmore or Buzek
joined the call? I guess not. OK. I think we can move on to the next agenda item, which is a press
release. And I don't know if this requires a lot of discussion, but I believe that we are going to go
along the lines of what Pauletta had done last time. Greg, your thoughts?
GREGG MOSER: I'm sorry, state-- apologize, one more time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just your thoughts on the press release, excuse me.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I think that it would be great to do the press release and modify it. Based
on the stakeholder feedback, I think that Director Walker mentioned the federal, that was just an
oversight. It was simply I was compiling a list of what everybody suggested. And I don't believe
that I captured that, so we can certainly include that.

And I can work with Barbara and the team to make sure that when a press release goes out we
have some sort of email that goes out. So they're not getting bombarded with different people
reaching out different ways to them.
And to those folks who are on the stakeholder list that we want to make sure we have our outreach
to, make sure that they have an ability to reach out to me if they want to discuss, or provide input,
or suggest candidates, or things like that. But I think that that press release modified for the general
manager search is perfect. It's a good idea.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to ask a question about the timing for that press release. And I believe
that since we have mostly consensus on the job description and the stakeholder list, I'd kind of like
to get a sense of the timing for that. Barbara, do you have any thoughts about that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I met with Pauletta yesterday. And their team have a skeleton, if you
will, of a press release to go out. I haven't seen that yet, but I will forward Director Cook's email
to her just to make sure that we're all on the same page. We also, so Gregg and I would have to
meet with the communications team. Because we wouldn't want to make the launch without the
website up and running as well.
And what that looks like, and are we going to have a link that's going to go directly to Gregg? I
mean, when we launch this, we have to make sure that all the elements are there. It's not just as
easy as sending the press release out.
So I can get with Pauletta's team. And maybe Gregg, tomorrow, we can meet and look at all those
elements and find out the timing from Pauletta and get back to the committee.
GREGG MOSER: That works for me.
That sounds great. And thank you for pointing out that it's not as easy as turning on a switch.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Some of some us think it's that easy. So I think that's great if you could get with
Pauletta. And then let us know what you think the plan will be and what you anticipate the timing
to be. That would be great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you, Barbara, do you mean a whole different website, or is it just going
to be a subpage of the RTD-ember.com?

BARBARA MCMANUS: It's going to be the same sort of web page that we had for the interim
general manager. In fact, I forwarded a PDF of that website to Gregg already so that he can see
the elements that are listed and what information we'll need in order to build that. Does that answer
your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm wondering, is it a subdomain? If somebody goes to RTD-ember.com
are they at the same website? Or is it going to be a subpage? Or is it going to be a totally different
www.RTDgeneralmanager.com, as an example?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's probably going to be a link off of our website. And when I talked to
Pauletta, what I have asked her to do was to put a link on the home page that goes directly to that
page. And that it will be front and center for anybody that goes to the website. They won't have to
really search for it. It'll be front and center for them to click and get there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I was just-- the definition of website, new website versus new web
page. That'd be two different things. Sounds to me like a new web page.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It'll be a web page on our website.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, excellent, great, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK thank you. I think we actually did cover next steps and timing moving
forward within that last agenda item. Although we need to get together, Barbara, you and I, to
discuss the next meeting and the agenda for this process. But I think we're getting underway and
we may not need to get a meeting for the next couple of weeks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, so Gregg, I know that we were originally talking about doing eight
weeks. We're a little bit behind on our schedule, I think. Can we talk a little bit about the timing
and how long we want to have the search out on the street, and see if we can get consensus on
what that would look like?
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: From my perspective, it really comes down to what the board's desire is. I mean,
I think that there's obviously a lot of uncertainty at the moment with situations, COVID included.
And we've obviously highlighted that in the job description. I suppose, you know, the question is,
how important is it to stick to that timeline? Or we can we be off by a week or two by keeping it
at eight weeks?
I mean, the only thing it possibly does from my end is just puts a little pressure on candidates and
the ability to vet them and things like that. But it's not impossible. So in an ideal world, it would
remain about eight weeks. But if folks feel strongly, I can work with you to adjust to it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Either is fine with me. I just wanted everybody to understand that we
either were moving forward with the original timing that you proposed or whether or not did it
make any sense to make a change to that. So it's up for discussion with the group. I don't really

have any desire either way. I just want to make sure that everybody is in consensus with what will
be out and how long it will be out.
PEGGY CATLIN: So eight weeks from today is July 9. And I think our hard stop is the November
board date to have a final selection. So I think we still have room if we keep the process at eight
weeks, to still meet that end deadline. Other thoughts? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm fine with a little longer. Nothing really bad, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I am totally OK with the eight weeks. I think we
built in some time to be able to accommodate the eight weeks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm OK with it, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm fine with it, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
WALKER: I'm good with eight weeks. I think we have enough float to still hit that November.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: : I'm good with it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK Gregg, I think you got your answer.
GREGG MOSER: Thank you, everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'll press on with that schedule in mind. OK, are there any other questions of
directors?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin, this is Shontel Lewis, if I may speak.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Chair, appreciate it. I just wanted to make-- as I know a
few directors have reached out to me-- to make you all aware, in my full time job I typically run
lunch meetings, town hall meetings. And so if we have these between 12 and 1, it's pretty much
impossible for me to attend.

And so for future meetings, and I have requested this in the past, if we could just get a few dates
and times to pick from it would just be really helpful. Otherwise I am more than happy to connect
with Director Catlin and Gregg offline to continue to catch me up. But I also don't want that to be
your responsibilities. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. As we look at the schedule moving forward, if we
can look at maybe a 1 o'clock-- 1 o'clock then interferes with Director Cook's schedule as well. So
we're going to try and work around as many people as possible but as we move forward we'll look
at that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, and I will share that 1 o'clock is not the only time that I'm open.
Happy to do something in the morning or something in the afternoon. It's just that 12:00 to 1
o'clock that I'm pretty much always in something. Because that's the time that our clinics are able
to be closed.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, well I appreciate that and we'll work on the schedule moving forward. Are
there any other question? All right, any other matters before we adjourn this meeting? Let Gregg
go on about his business and we'll reconvene our next meeting.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do have one other matter to cover. Barbara, could you give me a summary- or give us, as is-- a summary of where we are on the budget? I'm very conscious of that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We did receive one incremental invoice from Prayhammer and it's
being processed right now. Other than that, there's no change.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, good, I'm glad to hear that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We can probably have that as an agenda item on subsequent
meetings, just a status report. OK, well, any other questions or other matters? Gregg, thank you
very much. The next part of this meeting is really talking about the General Manager Oversight
Committee. So you are-GREGG MOSER: I will drop off now.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you very much. We'll chat soon.
GREGG MOSER: Have a good day. Bye-bye.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, so the executive search portion of our meeting is adjourned at 2:06. And
I'd like to call the GMOC portion of our meeting to order. So we have a couple of things to talk
about.
Well, let's call rule because I think we no longer have Director Cook on the line. But we have
Guissinger, Lewis, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, and Walker. Has anyone else joined? OK.

Do you have the materials that John forwarded to you, the 2020 and 2021 goals update? And Paul
Ballard and I had a discussion about these the other day and thought that the updated goals and the
2021 goals would really be a good starting point for questions that we could ask potential
candidates. And that this document could be used as a framework for interviews and questions.
Paul, would you like to elaborate on that a little bit for me, please?
PAUL BALLARD: Sure, absolutely. I thought it was a really good conversation. And as I was
thinking ahead to the selection process, and it seems to me one of the steps that we would want to
take is to get ideas from the candidates as to how they might deal with certain circumstances.
And these goals that are put together really lay out some real world issues that the board is
interested. And I would kind of make them, at some point, part of the selection process to get their
feedback on how they might tackle some of these things. So that was kind of what we talked about.
And I'm not precisely sure at what point we introduced them.
We might want to talk to Gregg about that and see if that's something that we might want to put
out there upfront, or he could share with candidates that are interested, or it could be part of a
question and answer process down the road. So I just feel like the board has done a lot of work in
organizing these.
And we've synthesized them down to, I don't know, three and a half pages or so. So it's a very
manageable document. And I just thought we should take advantage of all the work that's been
done on this and make it as part of the search process at some point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. With regard to the document itself, are there any comments on
those? We're scheduled as a board to approve them in June, right Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, in June.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guissinger, do you have?
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, are you going to go through each one?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I mean, each director? OK, all right, I'll hold.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Guissinger, any thoughts?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Come back to me, I'm looking for a couple things, if you would, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I certainly will. Director Lewis. I'll give you a chance to unmute your phone.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It looks like she might have dropped off.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, all right, Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: I mean, we have to be a little bit dependent on here. You'll see what I mean.
It seems like this has trended towards social equity. I've expressed my concern about this whole
issue. Again, and I'm going to let somebody else chime in and say whether I'm wrong on this or
not.
But with social equity, and I can very clearly remember our discussion in the March of 2019 when
equity came up and what my view of it was is that there was a majority of those who wanted to
use the word equity, that it was about transit equity.
And I'm going to say that my view, which could be wrong, was it was in relation to a lot of, is the
area that I represent getting the service that's either been promised to them, or that they expect, or
considering the contribution, let's say, and that's a kind word, I'm using that kindly.
Are they getting what they've put in? That's what I remember from the March 2019 equity
discussion. But it seems to evolve into a social equity. Could somebody please respond, let me
know if I'm just completely wrong? Or their thoughts on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin. My recollection of the March 2019 meeting was that it
encompassed both. Both the geographic equity as well as the social equity. And I don't know if
Director Rivera-Malpiede, or Director Walker, or Director Guissinger, the remaining folks that are
on the line, how they remembered that retreat.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, this is Director Malpiede. I would just say to you that it was
a very good conversation, but we really ended up talking about equity versus equality. And that's
kind of where I ended up at, was equity is so much different than having equal processes in terms
of service. So I think it has transpired more than that. But I think we were talking about two
different kinds of components here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Director Walker.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin, I just want to let you know that I'm back on the line. I'm sorry
I dropped off, I disconnected, I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh good, well, thank you. Then we'll have an opportunity to hear your
comments on this too. OK, Director Walker.
WALKER: Thanks, I was just looking for my notes here. I can't find them, so I don't remember
what I wrote down. But my recollection is that we had a discussion that had both parts to it so even
though it's not exact my recollection is in line with yours, Director Catlin, that it encompassed
both. The percentage, the weight of each one wasn't clear. It wasn't clear to me, from what I
remember. But I remember that discussion being done. So addressing both issues and under that
one term, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might back up a second, we're looking at all of the goals here right now.
And I know we honed in on goal number two, transit equity. But just coming back to Mr. Manson,
did you have any comments on the rest of the document?

NATALIE MENTEN: No, it's number two, transit equity, equality. That's the one that I'm having
difficulty with.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: As in definitions and recalling where we were at when we had the
discussion. And Barbara, we still have the recording from that meeting, correct? The retreat in
2019?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could I get that copied onto a CD and I will pick it up? Or a USB, sorry.
Can we fast forward 10 years?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll have to check with my team on that, whether we can do that remotely
or we have to go into the office to do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, whichever, if I need to go down to Blake, that's fine. Whatever I need
to do that will make it easiest, if that's a remote Dropbox, or OneDrive, or go down to Blake. Any
of those would be fine but I think that would be handy to have for my records.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, that's all the comments I got on this.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your thoughts on the entire document, the goals?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I'm actually OK with the entire document. I think that
we've really delved into it and I've looked at it several times. And after the March meeting, I
thought it went very, very well. So I've sat with these, I've looked at them, I've reviewed them.
And I think this is a good document to work from. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Back to Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You know, I'm busy with some other RTD things, so I'm just
spending a little time with it now. I guess I feel like it's sort of gotten so tactical that it doesn't look
at the big picture and a lot of ways, you know? We say, develop the best and worst case scenario
rather than protect our finances to ensure the stability of the agency.
And I'm not seeing in here that-- and again, I'm kind of off the bat here-- to develop our
relationships with our local and state governments and develop processes for making decisions
involving them, which is a real critical piece that we are not doing well. So I have some concerns
about the overall document.

I also agree that we have talked about social and geographic equity. You know, it kind of goes
back to what I said in the executive committee earlier, that I thought we had a really good meeting
on re-imagine ITV this morning. Because we were talking about some of the big picture things.
And I hope that we can come up with a process for the board. I like the fact that we're saying the
thing is she should have a strategic plan by the end of next year. But I think we need to really come
up with a process for the board to look at. We've got a lot of big picture things coming down the
road. I'd like to see us looking at some of those things and setting our goals a little higher, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Director Guissinger. Before I go to Director Lewis, I'd like to make
the comment that we actually have the goals from the retreat that do address some of those bigger,
broader picture items. So I think these tactical pieces really need to operate in conjunction with
those broader goals.
So that's kind of the way I'm looking at it, but I'm just one Director. Director Lewis, I'm glad you
came back on. Your thoughts on the tactical plan and the goals for 2020 and 2021?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I'm so sorry about that, I just disconnected for some strange
reason. I think I may have caught the tail end of the discussion you all were having about equity.
And so as you posed the question to me, know that I wasn't trying to ignore you, I just dropped
off. About this tactical plan, and I may have alluded to this during our call on Tuesday. It was
really a desire-- I had shared,
I guess to some degree, some surprise that our goals had come back to the board in this way. And
not that we didn't ask for this, but I thought things might change just a little bit considering COVID19 and us not moving forward from a business-as-usual approach.
I think one of the things that I would really love to was-- I think these are great things to do, and
to strive for, and to try to achieve is for the board to, and with staff, and I imagine some folks may
not be interested in another meeting, but I do think it probably is necessary for us to sit down and
have a conversation, an honest conversation in the face of COVID-19. And getting our ridership
back.
And just thinking about all the things that we have to consider during this pandemic to think about
what we can afford to do, the real level of service that we're able to operate safely. And in that,
how do we prioritize those that are most vulnerable in our communities? And so I think that this
document was probably really good previously.
And I just hope that we're more flexible as we move forward in the COVID to not just want to give
back to businesses as usual. But really lean in to the opportunity that this pandemic presents for us
to create a system, and to imagine a system, and to implement a system that I think worked for
many more people.
And so I know that doesn't address any of the specific goals, I just would hate to see General
Manager Ballard have these four things that he would be evaluated against and we haven't, in a

very intentional way, included the impacts and the implications on even the unknowns of those
into what the outcomes of these goals could look like. And that's all I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair, are you unmuted?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. No, I wasn't unmuted. And I just said the-I'm sure I can't repeat what I said, but I'm sure it was very eloquent. I just said that Director Lewis'
comments were a nice segue to updates to the tactical plan that we may want to have additional
elements of the tactical plan that address the COVID-19 pandemic. So, may I share?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. I said some of the executive committee and Director
Lewis wasn't in there. But what you just said is right along the lines of what I was looking for,
which is that we are looking at a lot of these decisions, how we're going to look at the future, what
telecommuting might affect us, what this means for fares as we bring them back, and all of the
different things we offer. So I would just second Director Lewis' urging to have that conversation,
thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to make sure that folks are looking at the updated 2020, 2021
goals, because of the whole first part of that document is on COVID.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is that the document that John would have sent us this morning? Or is this
something else?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, that was one of the documents that John sent in the group for these
meetings this morning, yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, are you referring to, for the first time I see it, and I may be looking at the
wrong document, it's goal number four, increase ridership, improve rider experience with a focus
on recapturing lost riders from COVID-19 in 2020, is that what you're referencing? Or is that a
piece of what you're referencing, rather?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, on the top of that page not specifically the goals, the first portion
of that document talks about COVID-19, communication, safety, operations. And in the
operations, it does say restoration of service as well as ridership headcount. A number of the
elements we've been discussing are in that section.
So those are things that staff will be working on as well as the goals one through five that starts on
the second page and moves to the third page. I just wanted to point that out, that some of those
elements are already listed in the top of that document.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Is everybody looking at the same thing?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Guissinger, does that does that help at all? Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, I re-muted. You were saying that, again, I was inspired by the
conversation with reimagine where at least in my small group in the reporting, we were talking
about the importance of looking at the big picture. And I assume, I'm hoping that Bill Demeter and
his team are all looking at what the changes after COVID could be. And obviously there are a lot
of questions.
But I'd like the board to be in a position to discuss those questions and kind of help envision the
future of the agency. And I think that was sort of along the lines of what Director Lewis was talking
about, which is why I was seconding that. But that's my thought today.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you Director Guissinger. Other thoughts about this document? And
my only comment about-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I just have one comment about the document and that's it still
says that the fast tracked corridors plan needs to be updated. And I would like the word corridors
taken out, because it's not just about the corridors. And in our discussion of the mid-term financial
plan and examining the use of the side track, I think that that's going to be coming up. All right,
Director Lewis.
Before I move on to-- I guess everybody else has had a comment. I wanted to turn it over to Paul
Ballard. But did you have another comment, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, yeah, I was just going to say to agree with Director Guissinger, that's
exactly what I was saying. Really urging for us to have a conversation about what's realistic and
what is not realistic. The feeling that I get is that we-- and this is not unique to RTD-- that many
agencies are really just kind of holding on long enough to get past this COVID thing, that we can
go back to business as usual.
And I am of the belief that we are not going to go back to business as usual. And our new task and
responsibility is to really deal with what's in front of us right now with the understanding. And
putting everything on the table, putting reimagine on the table, putting the in line on the table,
putting the items on the table, so that that board in a real way can grapple with those-- staff in a
real way, grapple with those. And we make decisions from that standpoint moving forward.
It just appears to me that we are just hoping that we get to the other side of it so we can just do the
thing that we've always done. And I just feel strongly that that's not what we are going to be able
to do, that we are not going to do the thing that we've always done. And we're going to think about
how we serve folks differently and considering the telecommuting that Director Guissinger has
mentions.
So I look at these goals, and I appreciate you all putting this document together. But it does make
me wonder if we are operating in a world that no longer exists and making decisions in that world.

Or are we operating in a real world right now? And if we aren't, if we are not, how can we? So
that's about pretty much it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. You know what, I have a have a suggestion that we, the chair
and members of the executive committee have a conversation about this for moving forward with
the full board.
But for now, I wanted to move on on this agenda. And one of the things that we want to talk about
is Mr. Ballard's evaluation process. And we talked about these 2020 goals and 2021 goals, however
they are going to be evolved if we update the tactical plan, as a means to evaluate candidates and
move forward with the new general manager.
But in light of the fact that Mr. Ballard's assignment here is temporary to the point that we transition
to a new general manager, I thought it might be worth having a discussion about not doing business
as we have in the past in terms of evaluating him.
And so as we talked about this, we talked about the initial welcome letter that the board had sent
to him prior to his arrival. And our request of him for what we expected him to achieve. And so
Ms. McManus sent out that letter.
And I don't know if you all received the email, it was a separate email, that outlined our
expectation. And if we could really have a discussion about proceeding along those lines as
opposed to using these particular tactics to evaluate Mr. Ballard's performance. So thoughts about
that, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you asking if we got an email that was addressing something different
here? I'm not clear what-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Barbara McManus sent an email at 1:02 PM that was a letter that we had
transmitted to Paul prior to his arrival here on February 17. And we outlined the interim general
manager action steps for the next six months.
And what our thought was that was the action of steps by which he should be evaluated. For
example-- so I don't know if you have that in front of you, but-LYNN GUISSINGER: My computer just loaded it. Oh, it did bring it up, I'll look. You might want
to go to somebody else because I need to revisit this.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Lewis, do you happen to have it in front of you or-SHONTEL LEWIS: I do.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, your thoughts about proceeding along with mine?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I will say, I did just pull it up, I haven't had the time to look at it because
I got it while we were on this call. I can just give you-- I'll just maybe say the thing that I may have

said again. I really want to make sure that we are doing a good job of setting Mr. Ballard up for
success while I know his time here is temporary.
I don't want to spend our budget, our money, our priorities, our time, our accountants, our
treasurers on things that may not matter. And I use that lightly. I'm not placing value on anything.
I'm just saying that this is a really good opportunity for us to re-prioritize.
And I wonder if it makes sense for us to look at this document, press to push these conversations
at the board level to say, like, let's have some real nitty-gritty conversation about what's real and
what's not real.
And I think this document, there might be an opportunity for us to look at this document and say,
like, what's real for Mr. Ballard to achieve, what's not real for Mr. Ballard to achieve. And how
much of this stuff is just kind of us doing this thing for the sake of doing it? And not taking into
account the impacts of COVID?
LYNN GUISSINGER: If I-- I apologize for interrupting. One of the reasons that we're having this
meeting today is one of timing, which is that we are supposed to approve the practical plan
document in the June board meeting.
That said, I think I would like to hear from Mr. Ballard about his thoughts on-- I mean, when we
hired him, he set out to achieve the handful of items or action steps that we had outlined for him
in the next six months. And that's how he's been proceeding. Am I right, Paul?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll let you speak to that. But I think I'd also like-LYNN GUISSINGER: What are your thoughts-- I'd like to hear his thoughts about if he thinks he
has a chance to succeed based on the document. Paul?
PAUL BALLARD: This is Paul Ballard speaking, thank you. You know, I will address that the
same way that you all are discussing, the 2020 and 2021 updated goals. Things have changed, big
time. So when we had the meeting on March 7th at the history museum, everybody put in a lot of
work. And these goals were organized and we went through a process over the last several weeks
of similar to some of those and coming up with what we feel is [AUDIO OUT] of the board's work
that day.
And I think I'm hearing that we have this in pretty good shape as far as what transpired on March
7th. There was some discussion by a Director Menten around the equity issue. We can have further
discussion there. There's a real legitimacy for why it's written the way it is, but I won't get into that
now.
Now, as far as what was given to me, this was very helpful to me. And as I've said to the board
before, this letter, which I received-- or email-- a week before I started was helpful to me because
it allowed me to take a look at what the key issues are. Obviously, the operator shortages and
dropped runs were critical.

So I certainly started out spending a lot of time on that. And we took a number of steps to begin to
address that issue. I guess the silver lining to the corona's cloud is that we achieved all of this on
April 19th. We stopped mandated, we stopped dropping runs because we dropped 40% of the
service. That's certainly not the way any of us intended that we would get there.
But now that we are there as part of the service restoration, we're making sure that as we restore
service we have-- the passengers are back, that we can operate safely-- that we have the financial
ability to operate the service as we bring it back.
And then also that we have the operators to operate the trains and buses as we come back. So as
long as we continue to hire and train, which we are doing. We've been training all through the
coronavirus until now.
We're building up the operator workforce. And so as service comes back, we will reinstate the
service as we have operators who are able to operate it. So that was one of the key goals.
To reimagine initiative, we've had a lot of conversation about how we need to change the direction
of that. I can tell you that I've worked with the reimagine team, I've monitored that. I've talked to
participants.
But once again, things have changed. Do we need to take a new direction on this? But I can tell
you that we're working very hard on reimagine. And it's most likely still a solid basis for making
determinations of the future service level and how we provide service in this agency.
And by the way, if you do have the document, the highlighting is mine that I did when I got it. So
when I pulled this out to get it out to you today, that's my highlighting. Well, the listening sessions
with stakeholders and lunchbox briefings kind of went down when the whole community was
locked down. When I was here for, I think, my third week that started.
But I've continued to make a real effort in Zoom meetings and Microsoft meetings. I've been
plugged into multiple community groups on phone calls, and in video chats, and that sort of thing
to do the best that can be done. And I think that we have continued to build some relationships,
even though it wasn't a lunchbox-type approach.
And then flipping over to page two, analyze budget issues including fast tracks. Well, we've spent
a great deal of time looking at budgets, developing budgets. And once again, that has completely
been upended by a coronavirus.
We're very fortunate in that we did receive the CARES Act funding. And so we are in much better
shape than all of our local governments around us to weather this. So we've done that.
And then the other issue that's not contained in here that we had quite a bit of discussion was
starting the north metro line. And we've continued to make the progress necessary. We'll be in a
position to start that service in September. We've signed onto the final agreements with the Denver
transit partnership to make sure that we can fully operate on the lines that we'll be sharing.

The construction is wrapping up. We'll be doing final acceptance on the line this month. Training
is moving along. We'll have proper staffing trained. And we're ready to start in September.
So that was the one item that you also stressed which was not included in the welcome letter. So
that's kind of where we're at. And bottom line is, things changed big time when coronavirus came
along. And significant hours are being spent dealing with that.
But you should know that we're continuing to make progress on the other issues when this was
written and received by me on February 17th that we never knew we would be dealing with. So
all in all, I feel pretty good about the fact that we've continued to maintain business, we've
continued to make progress, as well as dealing with the coronavirus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. You know, I think that this document is a good
reminder to us about where we were. But I also think that we do need to be nimble in the way we
move the agency forward. So I would suggest that directors reread the letter and provide your
thoughts.
The chair has meetings with Mr. Ballard quite frequently. And maybe long before we have the
next GMOC meeting we can take a look at this a little more critically of the committee, rather than
belabor it today.
So that kind of brings us to the next evaluation process in timing. Ms. McManus? Barbara are you
still on the line? We may be having some technical difficulty.
Maybe I'll table that agenda item until we have a chance to visit with Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
Barbara, and Paul, and myself. Are there any other matters? I'll poll the directors. Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's all, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing else for me. I just hope that we continue to have the conversation.
Thank you so much for your facilitation.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm just glad that we're going to take a second glance at this letter that was
sent. Because I don't recall getting it before today. It very well could've gotten swallowed up in
the hundreds of emails. be meals but I'm glad we'll be coming back to revisit this and that is all I
have. Thank you
PEGGY CATLIN: That's my excuse, that it gets swallowed up in all my emails. But I do recall
this letter. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to continue this discussion offline with you if I could.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
WALKER: No, nothing from me, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'll speak with Barbara McManus about the next meeting. But if I'm
hearing no other matters, I'm going to adjourn this meeting at 2:44 PM. Thank you all for taking
quite a bit of time today to get through these few things. I think we've got a lot accomplished. I
appreciate it.
WALKER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, goodbye.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you!

