Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 12
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 25, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms RT D

Board
Members
Present:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, and
Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Chair Kemp
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Janne Bennick, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, J. Donovan,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Anna Lars, Nadine Lee, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta
Tonilas, Christina Tubb, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington,
Susan Wood.
Others Present:

US 36 Coalition: Mayor Osborn (Boulder), Mayor Sisk
(Louisville), Craig Coon, Laurie Frasir; NATA: Mayor McNally –
Westminster, Jim Paulmero – CDOT, Mayor Natalie-Commerce
City, Gene Putnam - City of Thornton, Mayor Baum –
Longmont, Phil Greenwalt – Longmont, Mayor Downing –
Northglenn, Commissioner Hansen-Adams County; Mayor
Murphy-Lakewood; Councilman Ryan Frazier (Aurora);
Councilman Bob Broom – Aurora, Scott Weeks – DRCOG, City
of Aurora: Mac Callison, Robert Watkins , M. Cheroutes-HPTE
Heidi Baskfield, Celina Benaug, Brad Block, Ken Burns, Nina
Cress, Andrea DeBarros, Marc Devos, John Downing, Selena
Durham, James Ellis, J. Fernandez, John Ferguson, Maria
Garcia-Berry, Yuriy Gorlov, Ellsworth Grant, Nehemiah Hall,
Dick Henson, Kevin Hogan, Diana Howerter, Terri Jackson,
Robert Jackson, Steve Karan, Melony Keene, Theresa Kruse,
Galina Leiphan, Matt Lutkus, Herman Malone, Kat Middleton,

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 12
Claudie Minor, Karen Morales, Ray Murphy, Susan Osborn,
Jim Paulmero, Tim Quintana, Tim Romer, Tom Rousakis, Alex
Ruell, Terry Ruiter, Bob Sakaguchi, Erik Sandstrom, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Alvertis Simmons,
Todd Smith, Joseph Stukes, Jeff Thompson, Les Townsend,
Larry Warner, Bob Wilson, Davey Wilson, Kathleen Welo,
Linda Wilson

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the Study Session meeting to order
at 5:31 p.m.

I. FasTracks Public Participation on Short Term/Long Term Options
Mayor Susan Osborn, Boulder, spoke on behalf of US 36 Coalition, MCC. She
thanked the staff for the information provided in the three packages and
commended RTD for listening and responding to the strong voice of the
stakeholders.
The $90M included for US 36 BRT managed lane project is a
significant investment and will advance a major portion of the BRT restructure. The
US 36 corridor is the highest performing BRT corridor in the District. Will be able to
create the multimodal vision they have had for the corridor which includes work
leveraged funding sources CDOT, RTD,USDOT DRCOG and federal loans which
will be paid from local toll revenue. We are also pleased to see the funding for the
end of the line station in Longmont to demonstrate commitment to complete all the
corridors. Since the BRT is scheduled to advance in 2012, they request specific
BRT design and costing acceleration including special BRT vehicles, prepaid fare
kiosks and service planning. This will insure critical transit improvements are part
of this first re-structure phase of the BRT.
Craig Coon--Chairperson of US 36 coalition. We are a non-profit serving as
advocate for multimodal investments for the US 36 and Northwest corridors. They
support the position of the local elected officials and give our support in the short
term and long term financial scenarios which will complete FasTracks as soon as
feasible.
Laurie Frasir, SVP, Key Equipment Finance (Key Bank) representing the private
sector employing about 400 people along this corridors. US 36 corridor hosts a
number of important global employers including CU and other labs. NW quadrant
represents 19% of the state. By 2035, employment expected to grow by 53 % and
population by 28%. Transportation investment in this corridor will not only help to
attract and retain quality employees but will keep pace to ensure economical,
vitality and job growth.
Chuck Sisk, Mayor of Louisville, MCC, express gratitude in getting involved in this
effort. They met with several other corridors and strongly support regionalism.
They met with SE, Mayor Tauer in Aurora and several others to make sure it will be

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 12
the collaborative effort of the region. We are happy that Longmont is getting
included in this and getting something they deserve.
The $90M will have a
significant impact on the US 36 corridor. In your consideration of sales tax, we
want to be cooperative; the .1% is not enough under any circumstance. We need
to re-establish that invigoration-let’s make the right decision. They believe that we
need to get the darn thing built in its entirety.
Mayor McNally, Mayor of Westminster and Chair of the NATA group. Others
representing this group included Mayor Downing-Northglenn, Mayor NatalieCommerce City, Mayor Baum- Longmont and Commissioner Hansen of Adams
County. NATA is comprised of cities of Brighton, Commerce City, Decano, Erie,
Firestone, Frederic, Longmont, Thornton, Northglenn, Westminster, City and
County of Broomfield, ACED and North Metro Chamber of Commerce. NATA is a
partnership of public and private entities in the north I-25 corridor that advocate for
transit solutions that will enhance mobility, drive economic development and reduce
traffic congestion. We are pleased to see the inclusion of the North Metro segment
and the end of line station in Longmont as well as the financial commitment to US
36 BRT phase 2. This represents a significant step in the inclusion and equitable
distribution for all the corridors. We are also please to see the I-225 corridor as
part of this package. NATA has worked to obtain consensus. RTD Board should
allow flexibility in the use of the $90M to see if it can leverage the funding with
other sources.
They would encourage RTD to take into account the willingness of voters and the
timing for when this will be placed on the ballot. There should only be one ballot
taken to the voters instead of multiple tax increases over the year to complete the
vision.
Council member Ryan Frazier, Aurora City Council and Chair of the Aurora
Transportation Committee, stated that considering the $305M, there is a strategic
advantage of the I-225 that connects patients and employees across the regions to
the Anschutz-University campus (i.e.
Anschutz, University, Veteran, Children
hospitals.). The I-225 corridor also connects 350,000 people eastern to central
businesses to the SE corridor line. The City recognizes the entire line cannot be
built from the $305M but appreciate that in the spirit of moving forward, RTD has
found a way to use a portion to extend from the existing Nine Mile station to the
Iliff station.
Final design is complete for this 1.3 mile segment and this is
construction ready to be advertised for construction bids.
This project has
widespread community support. It is more than just extending this line. Currently
by 7:00 a.m. each workday the Nine Mile Station is full. This means a number of
transit riders are being turned away each day. This will give a better utilization of
the existing line that is already built. An additional benefit is RTD and CDOT would
like to make this a joint project similar to the successful TREX project. Because
this addresses the need for leveraging resources, expansion of existing capacity,
economic benefits and the opportunity for RTD and CDOT to work together, he ask
the Board of Directors to strongly consider this short term option.
Each line in system has strong merits so he can appreciate the need to show

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 12
progress in the corridor and spread the $305M across the region. Aurora supports
the fact that mass transit (FasTracks) needs to be regional in nature and these
proposed short term options by the staff shows that regional perspective.
Heidi Baskfield, Children Hospital, also spoke in favor of the option to extend I-225
and stated this will help to support transportation options for the children and the
employees.
Jeff Thompson, Anschutz Aurora, reiterated that all of the campus supports the I225 corridor and this is imperative that this happens.
Melody Keene spoke on behalf of Honorable Representative Perlmutter who
provides his support to the I-225 corridor as an option for the use of the $305M.
This provides immediate benefits and enhances the livability focus of the
community.
Robert Jackson representing the African American Contractors, stated the African
American community had supported the first phase of FasTracks and had voted for
it. Unfortunately they have not seen or realized any cooperation from this and have
been overlooked. They are willing to support the FasTracks option to go out for
vote again but with the expectation that the African community will be included
and receive benefits from this. FasTracks will need to have a different look to
maintain the African American community support.
Gene Putnam, member of NATA, shared that he was representing the City of
Thornton and that they supported Mayor McNally’s statement made earlier.
Herman Malone, Business Advisory Coalition (BAC) stated their purpose was to
help identify black business opportunities for the black community. It is nice to see
our WIN program and the opportunities it provides for minorities, women, and
diversity-that is, on paper. This is where it ends. The community is still looking
for real opportunities and feels they have been left out of the Eagle P-3, which is
unfortunate since it runs directly across the African American community. He
cannot support any additional tax for the FasTracks project that does not include
opportunities for the Black community.
Bob Murphy, Mayor of Lakewood, concurred with all the kudos given to RTD and
staff for these creative options. He offers up three words: flexibility, regionalism
and certainty. The voters want certainty so the package needs to include certainty.
Alvertis Simmons, Civil Rights Activist, stated that in July 2010, he hosted a
meeting with Denver City Councilman Linkhart where they shared that RTD,
FasTracks and DTP reneged with the African American Community on a contract.
The 3% did not occur. He does not see how RTD can go back to the taxpayers
asking for more money especially when they continue to exclude the African
American community. DTP has been talking out of both sides of their mouth and
treating the African American community like “Negroes on a slave plantation.” Is

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 12
this a white project?
Kevin Hogan, Aurora Chamber of Commerce, supports a timely completion of I-225
corridor from Nine Mile to Iliff. They also support the US 36 BRT and the North
Metro segment. They support the .4% to complete the whole project.
Joseph Stukes spoke to some of the intangible benefits dealing with the electromagnetic field as the LRT travels through the Anschutz medical center. He stated
he believes there are some unexamined befits which he would like to provide in an
unsolicited proposal. He also believes that more frequent stops should be added.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer closed the public participation after seeing there were no more
speakers. He also shared with the meeting guests that Chair Lee Kemp sends his
apologizes but had to be out of town on business.
VII. Staff Recommendations on Short Term/Long Term Options
General Manager Phil Washington introduced this presentation. He stated they
were not looking for action from the Board tonight but would be providing the staff
recommendations on the short term and long term options for FasTracks. He
reviewed some of the steps taken to-date including accomplishments. He also
shared that in a meeting with the FTA Administrator as late as Monday, 1/24, the
FTA administrator is making plans for the Full Funding Grant Agreement in spring of
this year.
Provided below are the highlights from the staff recommendations. A copy of this
presentation in its entirety is available in the Board minute’s notebook located in the
Board office.
Staff’s Recommendation: RTD staff recommends adopting a financial plan
scenario for the FasTracks program that assumes a successful 0.2% sales
and use tax election in 2011.This will result in completion of the full
FasTracks program by 2027.
This recommendation does not represent a decision or commitment at this
time by the Board of Directors to place sales and use tax increase on the
ballot.
Staff’s Rationale:
Technically Feasible alternative
o completes the program in a reasonable timeframe with a smaller sales
and use tax increase than previously assumed
o Is responsive to initial request by stakeholders to consider sales and
use tax options of less than 0.4%.
o Positions projects to maximize opportunities for future federal grants.
Completes 85%-90% of the FasTracks program by 2022, with the complete
program finished by 2027.
Initiates construction activities on six additional corridors in the next four
years:

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 6 of 12
o US 36 Phase 2
o I-225
o North Metro
o Southwest Corridor Extension
o Southeast Corridor Extension
o Northwest Rail End of line Station
Allows RTD to have all corridors complete or under construction within ten
years
Maximizes partnering opportunities with regional stakeholders to leverage
additional funds for the program.
Established cost certainty by having projects under contract
Provides cross-regional economic benefit by constructing corridors sooner
Creates additional opportunities for small and disadvantaged businesses
Creates thousands of additional jobs for the region and state sooner, which
will help improve economic conditions across Colorado
o WIN program provides regional collaborative partnerships
o Greater good-putting the most impoverished zip codes and
communities back to work.
US 36 BRT

Short-term activities
Additional $90M to
fund managed lanes
extension from
Federal to Interlocken.

North Metro

CDOT releases
construction bid
package in 2011.
-Groundbreaking in
mid 2012
-Segment in operation
in 2015
Short- term
Construct segment
from DUS to the
National Western
Stock Show

Long term
implementation
RTD continues to
coordinate with CDOT
to explore
opportunities to
accelerate project
schedule and identify
additional project
revenues
RTD will continue to
identify opportunities
to accelerate corridor
completion.

Long Term
Implementation
Construct segment to
72nd by 2016 to
prepare for new start
application

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 7 of 12
-Construction bid
package released in
mid 2011
-Groundbreaking in
mid 2012
-Segment in operation
in 2016

I-225

Short-term

Northwest Rail

Construct segment
from Nine Mile to Iliff
-Construction bid
package released in
mid-2011
-Groundbreaking in
early 2012
-Segment in operation
early 2014
Short-term

Central Corridor

Construct Longmont
Station (Bus
operations)
-Construction bid
package released in
mid 2011
-Groundbreaking in
early 2013
-Station operational in
late 2014
-BNSF to begin
preliminary
engineering to define
operating easement
costs in Spring 2011
Short-term
Conduct additional
technical analysis
starting in mid 2011

-Pursue new start
grant to construct
72nd to end of line
-Design for 72nd to
end of line starting in
2015
-Groundbreaking for
end of line in 2019
Corridor in operation
in 2024
Long Term
Implementation
Construct remainder f
corridor
-construction bid
package release in
early 2014
Corridor in operation
early 2019

Long Term
Implementation
Groundbreaking in
2023
-Corridor in operations
late 2027
RTD will work closely
with BNSF to improve
the implementation
plan for this corridor.

Long Term
Implementation
Final design bid
package released in
mid 2019
-Design for corridor
starting in 2020
-Construction bid
package released in

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 8 of 12

Southeast Corridor

Short -term
Complete final design
and federal
environmental process
to prepare for Small
Starts funding
-Final design and
environmental bid
package released in
early 2012

Southwest Corridor

Short-term
Design and construct
UPRR relocation
-construction bid
package released in
early 2012
Groundbreaking in late
2012
Relocate complete in
early 2014

mid 2021
-Groundbreaking in
2022
-Corridor in operation
late 2023
Long Term
Implementation
Pursue Small Starts
grants for completion
of SE extension
-Construction bid
package released in
late 2014
-Groundbreaking in
2015
-Corridor in operation
late 2017
Long Term
Implementation
Construction bid
package released in
2019
-Groundbreaking in
2021
-Corridor in operation
late 2023

General Manager Washington summarized by stating 2011 is the most
opportune time to go to the ballot for a number of reasons:
o No way to replicate the momentum (i.e. $305M, FFGA execution)
o Ground breaking of Gold Line to coincide with FFGA award
o Northwest rail electrified segment
o The longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes
Financial Plan approval-next steps:
o February 8: Recommended financial plan to FasTracks Committee
o February 22: RTD Board approval of the 2011 Financial Plan
o March 22: RTD Board approval of Senate Bill 208 Report
Comments from the Board of Directors
o Director McMullen supports full regional; he supports the 0.4%; SEBP
supports 0.4%; Aurora Chamber supports 0.4%; he believes staff
presenting a compelling argument for the 0.2% but feels this extends
the program significantly. He will need time to ponder.
o Director Anderson-sees this as a well thought out plan. Good to

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 9 of 12
o

o

o

o

o

o

o

know they have listened to the stakeholders-good job
Director Riley-wanted to know for the WIN program will there be an
Oversight to ensure compliance.
General Manager Washington
responded yes. This is one of the responsibilities of the Civil Rights
Division. He also stated we are exceeding our goal now but must act
under the Federal guidelines and cannot dictate the ethnic mix.
Director Brohl-Referring to slide 17, wanted to know if everything
would be operational in 2016. Del Walker responded we will have
operational segments but the corridor will not be complete.
Director Brohl-slide 25-would still like to know if the 0.3 % might be
a viable opportunity. What would be completed in the projected
additional 4 years that the 0.3% might require? She also questioned
why does staff feel the 0.2% tax option when the stakeholders had
not expressed a clear choice.
General Manager Washington
responded some of the stakeholders they had met with had been
emphatic around the 0.2% option and no more. Del Walker indicated
he would provide more analysis on the 0.3% option.
Director Malpiede-Director Malpiede complimented the staff on their
excellent report for completing the vision. She asked if there would
be any competing ballot issues in 2011.
Director Cohen-commented he had spent some time with Del Walker
and did not have any questions. He questioned however, if RTD was
boxing themselves in a corner and what is a reasonable time beyond
2017? He would like to get away from the % discussion to get to a
time discussion on when this project can be completed.
Director Bagley-stated this has been a very rigorous process. He
asked about the 0.4% assumption for 2012 and asked if we would
have the construction capacity to build.
General Manager
Washington responded he believes so, as the market conditions could
drive availability of resources. This is a big question. This is a Board
decision to make. The issue of time is just as critical as the viability
of the number. How bold does the Board want to be? Director
Bagley also commented we already have two other items in the
works: West Corridor will be operational and DUS infrastructure will
be well underway. He also shared a meeting with the company
DaVita where they shared one of the attractions in moving to Denver
was the transit (FasTracks). We need to take this into consideration
to look as FasTracks as an economic development engine.
Director O-Boyle-Also concerned about the capacity, not only
construction capacity but the capacity for the campaign. What is the
willingness and capacity of the business to fund a campaign? He
also takes a page from Mayor Murphy on the concern for flexibility.
The politics in 2016 could have implications on support and funding
options. Is it better to go now than later? There is also no need to
stick to even numbers when considering sales tax options. (can have
2.5, 3.8, etc). His conclusion is this is a major undertaking and we
need to get on top of it right now and make a convincing case to our

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 10 of 12
o

o

o

o

VIII.

stakeholder to complete this program in a short period of time.
Director Hoy-wanted to know why the assumption of 0.4% in year
2012. General Manager Washington responded this is consistent
with our financial plan that was approved by the Board last year.
Director Hoy asked why not 0.4% in 2011?
General Manager
Washington responded we could do that if the Board decides.
Director Hoy asked about the impact of payoff and its link to sun
setting of the tax. Marla Lien responded that the sunset language
would need to be refined as it goes to the ballot. The key is going to
be flexibility.
Director Deadwyler-asked for a translation of this in real dollars.
 0.1% is approximately 40 million so .4% would be about 160
million per year.
 Director Deadwyler also inquired if some of this money could
be used elsewhere. Marla Lien responded it depends on how
you write the ballot question.
The current feedback says
completion of FasTracks but if we did something different, we
would need to tell the voters what we want.
Director Daly asked why not apply Small Starts to the Central
corridor? Bill Van Meter explained that Small Starts range from 75M
to 250M. The estimates for the Central Corridor are around 60M.
This would be an ineffective use of funds.
Director Tayer thanked staff for this thorough analysis and also the
stakeholders who provided their input. He also expressed we need to
be sensitive to the African American community that had spoken
tonight. This is a good first phase in the discussion to determine
what is the correct ballot number and the timing.

Maria Garcia Berry Readout from Focus Group
Maria Garcia Berry talked about a recent focus group that was held with
about 42 people, 2 of the sessions in Jefferson County and 2 outside. She
provided a historical perspective on the voting habits of Jefferson County
indicating that Jefferson County is the largest voting county with
approximately 26% of the RTD vote in 2004. Even the conservative voters in
Jefferson County voted in favor of FasTracks as they understand its
importance in maintaining a quality of life and getting vehicles off the road.
There are approximately 1.2M registered voters of which 69% of the district
votes come from Jefferson, Denver and Arapahoe Counties.
Focus groups are useful for messaging and to also try to understand what
people (i.e. the voters) are thinking.
Some of the Challenges and Obstacles that came from these focus groups:
Too crowded, population growth
Worries about economy and education
Tired of traffic problems-highway system outdated.
Beltway is
important.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 11 of 12
Not a single focus group knew what is being built-not conversant on
this.
Most of them were not sure when the voters approved FasTrackshave no sense of time
Many not sure who the Board of Directors are or who is in charge of
RTD
Considers FasTracks off budget and not on time
Disillusioned with RTD-sees as any other governmental entity
Believes RTD over promised
Believes the Board tried to undue FasTracks
Don’t know what has happened in last 7 years-will need to work hard
at messaging
High on DIA-sees the value in taking train to DIA-want it done in their
lifetime
Sees Park Meadows as evidence of poor planning (i.e. accessibility to
the mall) and thinks it is RTD’s fault
Talks about stealing of land-eminent domain
Concerned we will get it wrong again
Overall concern on accountability and certainty
Opportunities:
Playing for the margins-Board needs to understand the support may
not be as high as last time but we may still need to play the
margins.
Can’t tell you what the RTD tax rate is
# 1 issue: Care deeply for a system
TREX is the bright shiny example-gives CDOT all the kudos but don’t
know RTD was involved in this effort
Understands the importance of having a robust transit system to
attract new companies to Denver
Don’t blame RTD for budget problems-sees things as result of
economy. Nevertheless, would like some guarantees or certainty.
Not parochial-thinks stretching out the time will cost more.
Want it done sooner than later. Must give the government (i.e. RTD)
a deadline.
Summary:
The people get it. All values resonate. The focus group understands
that mass transit is critical to attracting new businesses and being
competitive. We are a cow town but we need to move to that next
level to become a better cow town-Denver needs to grow up. DIA,
DIA, DIA-we need that line completed sooner more than later.
RTD-you get one shot-get it right-guarantee it!
Comments from Board of Directors:
How much money do you think is needed to run a campaign in 2011?
MGB: This would be a different type of campaign than what was run
in 2004. In 2004, it cost approximately $3.6 M. The environment
was different, the economy was different and the air time costs were

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday January 25, 2011
at 5:30p.m. Page 12 of 12
different. Would estimate $2.5-3M in 2011 but $5M in 2012
because of the advertisement and air space competition. I believe
that whatever time the Board decides, that 2011 needs to be kept
alive. It takes a lot of work to get ready for the ballot and starting
over can be challenging.
Do you think we should go for 0.2% or 0.4%?
MGB: I think you are asking the wrong question. I think the focus
should be on the end time, not the tax rate.
Let’s change the conversation to the time. What do you think is the
capacity of the business community to fund a campaign? The real
estate community played a large role in the 2004 with their
contributions and although they fully support us, the funds may not
be available.
MGB: 28% came from the real estate in 2004. I am sure there are
some concerns. We have not yet road tested a financial plan so I
cannot really say.
If we go to the ballot in 2011, do you think we have a reasonable
chance of success?
MGB:
We need to be ready to go to the ballot in 2011.
Understanding the state of mind of voters and their personal
circumstances, we would be facing less competition on the ballot
than in 2012. The school and education issues are tremendous but I
have not heard they plan to go in 2011. 2011 is an off year. The
bigger issue is education and all school districts will be going to the
ballot in next couple of years. We have one shot to do this and do it
right.
VIX. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

