Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 8, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
February 7, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer and Walker.
Directors Deadwyler and Malpiede left the meeting early.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Hoy, Kemp, McMullen and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Michelle Boyd,
Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Phuoc Dang, Eric
Farrington, Terry Friedrich, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Scott Johnson, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Carolyn Martin, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Sue
Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, John
Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Rob Timmerman, Judy
Vialpando, Percy Washington and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Gronek – ATU1001.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.

Recommended Action
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked for a motion to move the first 5 recommended actions
together into one motion to the unanimous consent agenda.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward these items to the full Board
at the February 21, 2012 Board

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 2 of 6

Meeting.
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

Director
motion.

Cohen

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional
Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of
the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an amount not to exceed
$459,084.00.



Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range
Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the
expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an amount not to exceed
$400,000.00.



Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by that Operations and Customer Services Committee that
they Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the
City of Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP
circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the
University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas.
This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,390,348.00.



Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator
bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2012
and is for an amount not to exceed $282,656.00.



Cost Sharing Agreement – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 3 of 6

documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of
Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the
provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County,
Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year
2012 and for amounts not to exceed $325,532.00 for Boulder County,
$133,955.00 for Adams County and $99,270.00 for Jefferson County.
Bruce Abel explained that these actions are housekeeping items. Every year as
part of the budget process we allocate funds to support cost sharing agreements
with different organizations and municipalities. These actions authorize us to
execute the contracts and intergovernmental agreements to provide those funds.
Director Deadwyler inquired why we aren’t looking at these cost sharing
agreements in terms of service cuts. There are a lot of dollars going to these van
pools and cost sharing agreements. The amount of money that is attached to
them is not equal to the rest of our customers.
Bruce Abel noted that when we looked at our cost sharing agreements during last
year’s budget process, we advised our partners that funds could be frozen or
reduced. The performance of each of these vanpools has better performance with
regards to subsidy per passenger. However, we did slightly reduce certain
contributions.
Committee Chair Tobiassen added that this is a carpool service and the driver is a
volunteer.
Director Bagley noted that he and Director Walker were in Englewood last night
and the ART shuttle was mentioned. This works great for trips to the hospital on
the east side of Broadway from the Englewood station. Director Walker further
added that Englewood is very excited about this program and it is very well
received.
Director Anderson explained that the vanpool program has been going on for 20
years and provides options for those individuals that do not have enough ridership
for a full bus. It helps all kinds of people and has been very successful through
the years.


May 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 2012 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in a annualized cost increase of
approximately 936,100 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
Jessie Carter explained that there were 35 participants at the public meetings,
but the majority of the comments were focused on the January service changes.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 4 of 6

Staff is withdrawing the proposed AB service change from Stapleton. There is an
upcoming change to I-70 that we believe will cause significant impacts on traffic
and the AB and AS routes. Staff would like to wait to see what those impacts are
before any changes are made to the AB and AS routes.
Bruce Abel added that staff is addressing the running time and overcrowding
issues due to the January service changes. We are beginning the process of
addressing the most problematic of those issues with the May run board. Staff
will continue to monitor those changes in case additional modifications to the
schedule are needed.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward these items to the full Board
at the February 21, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

Cohen

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Information


Cost Sharing Agreements $250,000 and under
Bruce Abel explained that the Cost Sharing Agreements under $250,000.00 do
not require Board action. This update is to advise the Board of the partnerships
that we enter into which fall into this category.
Director Anderson indicated that she had a conflict with Ride Provide.
Marla Lien explained that the Board is not being asked to vote on this item so
Director Anderson will not have to refrain from voting, but the conflict will have
to be disclosed and this item will have to come back to the Board again.
Director Deadwyler added that anything that is costing this organization additional
dollars should be questioned and reevaluated due to the recent service cuts to
those that are transit dependant.
Marla Lien noted that it might be best to cover this item now, or it would not get
to the Board Meeting in time. Director Anderson has disclosed that her daughter
works for Ride Provide. The code of ethics indicates that a Board of Director can
have an interest in a contract as long as the Director discloses the conflict and
refrains from participating in the vote. A family member working for a company
would be considered an interest. This has never come to the Board, and being
aware of Director Anderson’s conflict, this item should come to the Board with

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 5 of 6

that disclosure. With the Boards permission, even though this is an information
item the approval of Ride Provide will become an action item to this month’s
Board Action. The Board will now have to vote on this contract.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward the Ride Provide contract to
the full Board at the February 21,
2012 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Bagley

seconded

the

The Motion passed with (10) in
favor
(Bagley,
Cohen,
Daly,
Deadwyler,
James,
Malpiede,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker)
and
(1)
abstention
(Anderson). Directors Hoy, Kemp,
McMullen and Williams were absent
from this vote.

 MallRide Prototype vehicle Evaluation – Customer Survey
Bruce Abel explained that customers responded positively to the windows and the
modern design of the shuttle. The negative comments are primarily focused on the
perceived lack of space in the rear of the bus.
Director Bagley indicated that he rode on the new mallride prototype and spoke with
the driver. The driver noted that the bus really works well for the mall, but there were
issues with the suspension. Dean Shaklee explained that we are working with
DesignLine and have ordered special shock absorbers to help fix the suspension
issue.
Committee Chair Tobiassen inquired when we are running an entire fleet with buses
that have 15 less people per bus, how are we going to handle the load during rush
hour. Bruce Abel noted that is a concern and we will have additional conversations
with DesignLine to determine what potential design modifications may be available.
 New Call-n-Rides
Brian Matthews explained that the South Jeffco Call-n-Ride has certainly been a
challenge. Staff has set up a variety of flex trips and a special trip for The Colorado
School for the Blind which seem to be working well. This has been very difficult and
tough adjustment for the residents of South Jeffco. The Belleview and Federal
Heights Call-n-Rides have had ribbon cutting ceremonies, and everything is running
smoothly. At this time, the ridership on Federal Heights has been low, but the
Belleview ridership has been growing.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on February 7, 2012
Page 6 of 6

Director Bagley noted that the Colorado School for the Blind recently purchased an
apartment building with 24 units at the northwest corner of Lowell and Bowles. By
the first of April, they will transition out of the Pinnacle. This is a positive step for
them, and they indicated that they would not have acquired this property as quickly
if not for the January service changes.
 CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Director Tayer inquired as to what exactly is the interface issue.
Eric Farrington explained currently the Smart Media project is using an ACS mobile
data terminal as the interface with the driver. Rather than have that interface in
addition with the INIT mobile data terminal, we are going to program the init mobile
data terminal to take over that function. At the moment, we do not have that
interface developed.
Director Tayer asked if this means a further delay for the smart card system. General
Manager Washington indicated that there is no anticipated delay.
 SMT Project Status Update
Bruce Abel explained that the factory acceptance testing was completed last
Thursday afternoon. This first stage of testing focused on EcoPass and we were
very pleased with the results. Next week, training will begin with the initial pilot
group which will begin in Boulder on February 20th.
 Farebox Project Status Update
Bruce Abel noted that the replacement of the fareboxes has been completed. There
have been issues with the alignment of the bill collectors and the chutes and we are
working with GFI to get those resolved.
III.

Other Matters
Director Daly noted that the Board received a new copy of the Drug and Alcohol Policy.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – March 20, 2012

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:52 p.m.

