Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

January 14, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14,
2010 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez (via phone), 2nd ViceChair Busck, and Secretary Bagley.

Board Member Absent:

Director Tayer, Treasurer

Other Board Members Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Director Daly

Paula Perdue, Phil Washington, Jeff Lieb (Denver Post)
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:16 p.m.

January Board Meeting Review
Phil Washington, Interim General Manager, reviewed the Board agenda for the
January meeting. There were no items of concern from the Executive
Committee.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move the
January Board agenda forward to the January
19th Board meeting for a full Board vote.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:


The Motion PASSED unanimously.

Unanimous Consent
 Selection of Location for Posting of Board Notice (no board report)
The Board hereby designates the entry way of the RTD
administrative offices at 1600 Blake Street as its location of for
posting of notices of all public meetings in 2009 as required by
C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(c). In addition, to the maximum extent

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted on RTD’s
website.


Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan
Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the
expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2010 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $463,500.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion
of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2010 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $585,000.



Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/art shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood
to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art
circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is
for calendar year 2010 and is for an amount not to exceed
$382,804.



Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP
circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent
business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar
year 2010 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,352,745.



Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
Manager, or his designee, to execute all the documents necessary
to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder
and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support
for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2010 and for amounts not to
exceed $325,532 for Boulder County, $133,955 for Adams
County and $99,270 for Jefferson County.


May 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve moving the
proposed May 2, 2010 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to
public review and comment.



Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined
Contribution Plan – 2010
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee
that The RTD Board of Directors certify a 2010 contribution rate
to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined Contribution Plan of 9% of
each participant’s eligible compensation.



Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Second Year
Amendment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group
(IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of
RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (RFP 18DH016) in the second-year
amount not-to-exceed limit of $1,850,000 for a total contract
value of $2,722,000. IBI was selected through the competitive
proposal process. This is the second year of a Board approved 5year period of performance with an additional one-year option to
extend the period of performance available as needed. Due to the
complexity and changing conditions of the project, each year’s
scope of work and fee are reviewed and negotiated annually. The
Request for Proposal (RFP) required eight (8) percent
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. Kenn
Hardin, Business Opportunity & Outreach Officer identified that IBI
exceeded their DBE goal and intends to exceed it again in this
second-year. The contract value for subsequent years will be
determined based upon RTD’s need for services.



Budget Transfer for Cherry Creek LRT Bridge Repairs
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 6
$380,141 from the CPV Pocket Track capital project to the
expense budget to cover repairs to the Cherry Creek LRT Bridge
between north and south bound Speer Boulevard on the Central
Corridor. Funding for the CPV pocket track project is included in
the 2010 Adopted Budget.
 Recommended Action

Item from Executive Session

Request for Approval of the Eagle Project Utility Relocation
Construction Expenditures
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or
his designee to (1) execute Work Orders under the RTD Eagle
Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed
with the construction of early Eagle Project utility relocations in an
amount not to exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of
$23,000,000; 2) to delegate signature authority to execute any
such construction Work Orders. The 2010 Adopted Budget
includes $13,700,000 in the East Corridor project and
$2,500,000 in the Gold Line project for early utility relocations.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize
transfers from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve in the amount
of $4,300,000 to the East Corridor project and $2,500,000 to
the Gold Line project to fund the early utility work in excess of the
amount included in the 2010 Adopted Budget. This transfer
would advance funding that was previously programmed in 2011
to maintain the schedule for the Eagle Project
Phil Washington also provided an explanation of the scope of work
performed by the 16th Street Mall Shuttle Rehab Project Team. This team
worked on retrofitting the mall shuttle busses that are no longer supported
by the manufacturer. These buses are approximately 10 years old. The
estimated budget to refurbish these buses was $2.2 M but the team was
able to successful rehab these buses ahead of schedule and approximately
$800K less than anticipated.
II.

Status Update of GM Contract
Chair Kemp shared the RFP for an external employment attorney had been
issued and hope to award a contract by tomorrow, 1/15/10. There were some
questions around standard pension plan that had to be cleared up. Otherwise,
the process is moving along nicely with a target to have a contract in place by
the end of January.
Director Martinez queried if the contract will be retroactive back to the date
that the job offer was made (December 15, 2009). The Committee felt this

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 6
was appropriate so Chair Kemp will have this included in the contract.
III.

Committee Assignments and New Standing Committee
Chair Kemp is working on the committee assignments and expects little change
from last year. The largest change will be to add a new standing committee
called the GM Executive Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
This will be chaired by Director Busck and the vice-chair will be Director
Bagley. Director Busck shared why it was important to have a vice-chair who
can maintain the continuity in the election year when he was up for re-election
and Director Martinez was term limited. The other committee members will
remain as such. This will not be a committee of the whole but will work to
integrate the decisions and ideas brought forth from the full board. Chair Kemp
indicated a goal of this committee is to work with the General Manager to
define criteria for performance evaluation including an established schedule and
to have this approved by September. This committee will also discuss and set
expectations for the 2010 year in their first meeting.
Director Bagley suggested language could be set in the bylaws around the
criteria for the annual performance evaluation.

IV.

Board Retreat
Chair Kemp shared that the focus of this retreat will be on the questions,
concerns or issues that the Board needs answered to make a decision around
going to the ballot in 2010 or how to move forward. This will be in addition to
the financial plan that will have already presented.
Director Martinez suggested a survey is sent out in advance to the Board
members asking them for what information they need in order to be able to
make a decision by March 4. Chair Kemp requested Paula Perdue to query the
Board members.
Director Bagley expressed there are other crucial issues the Board needs to
discuss which merits a Board advance. Chair Kemp indicated that in the March
4th meeting, a block of time will be set aside to identify other issues and
time/criteria for an additional Board Advance. Director Busck indicated that
such a Board Advance is needed for the GM Executive Oversight and
Performance Management Committee where the full board can brainstorm and
come together on the criteria for the General Manager performance
management.
Director Busck feels we should change the name from Board retreat to Board
Advance and make this an obligatory occurrence on the Board calendar.
Director Bagley suggested language could be put in the bylaws stating the
Board would have an annual Board Advance during a specified time in the
beginning of the year.

V.

RTD Staff Restructure
Interim General Manager Phil Washington provided a handout of his proposed
restructure and org chart and walked through his rationale for these changes.
The Committee provided their support to the General Manager. Director Busck
particularly noted that as part of the GM Executive Search Committee, he had
stated his expectations that the General Manager would address the current
structure but to receive this within 30 days exceeded his expectations.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 14, 2010, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
VI.
IT Customer Service
Interim General Manager Phil Washington shared that one of their goals is to
provide the best customer service beginning with IT. As such, they are
identifying a process that will ensure that Board members needing help will
receive access within 24 hours. Director Busck suggested staff do a survey on
how well they are doing with the customer. Phil Washington introduced Trent
Ratcliff as the new Senior Manager of IT who expressed they have a number of
ideas that they will be discussing with Paula and the Board.
VII.

Other Matters
Director Daly requested access to the names of the employees who are
currently in the reserves or the services. The Board would like to acknowledge
them in some way, perhaps a care package.
Phil Washington informed the committee there have been changes made to the
way the FTA considers new start. They are studying and evaluating the
potential impacts on RTD and will update the Board on their understanding.

VIII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:37 p.m.

