May 7, 2019
Finance Administration & Audit Committee Part 2
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I report to you guys functionality. Now, the majority of you
don't know me, haven't personally met me, or never sat down with me to have a conversation,
but I do report to you guys functionally, and I report to the General Manager and CEO
administratively. At the moment, I'm the only person in audit. I do have one intern.
I've been there on my own since last September, when the Senior Auditor retired-- which I kind
of hope he wouldn't have, but you know, sometimes the family wins against the work family. So
anyway, in the meantime, I've tried to work on 2018 Audit Plan, and I've done considerable work
with a bit of help from a lot of RTD staff trying to get the 2019 Audit Plan on its way.
I'm going to sort of run through some of the things that we've done. I started off the year looking
at the IT audit, which are bigger and more involved than the operational compliance and
performance audits that we normally do. So in the plan for 2019, we have cyber security, we
have insider threats, and we have physical security. In addition, we have IT staffing. I'll talk
about the first three audits.
The first three are continuous monitoring programs, which basically means there is a difference
between what I normally do in an audit. I normally go in and I plan. I do the fieldwork. I write
the report. I present the report.
Eventually, at some point, we go back and follow up on it. With these items, it is not that simple.
I've been working with Mike Meader and others with legal validation to create programs so that
these things we need to look at continuously. The second part of this is, the nature of these things
means that I will not write to these report and give it to anybody.
Audit can choose to report orally or in writing. In addition, we can report publicly or we can
report confidentially. The sensitive nature of some of the information will require that we report
to the Board without a formal written report for the public. For some of these things.
So for example, insider threat program that involves really sensitive information, and/or physical
security, and cybersecurity, as well, because some of us think cybersecurity out there in the sky
and it's the responsibility of sharing with somebody else. And really, it's the responsibility of
every single person in RTD, including our contractors, the Board, the staff-- basically everybody.
We're all responsible for keeping this organization secure in terms of any sort of threat. So
having said that, I've been working a lot on those three, and it is very exciting work, but it could
be very lonely work. So in addition, I've started a lot of the work on the staffing audit.
There are three staffing audits in the plan, and we've started a lot of looking at the staffing audits.
Now, we are not looking at the staffing audits in order to make recommendations that anybody

gets extra staff, or doesn't get extra staff. We're looking at it objectively, basically looking at
what sort of staffing is currently within the organization, and what sort of differences, if you like.
We do have two new AGM's in Bus and Rail, so Bus and Rail were two of the areas that we
were looking at for staffing. The third one is IT. And the reason we were looking at IT is, IT is
really kind of different in that things change fairly rapidly.
For example, last year, both Kevin and myself decided we were not going to do any IT
development for six months. And then, we turned up in the tech center and they were talking
about stuff, and we kept looking at each other like, what are they talking about? And I spoke to
Kim, and Kim was person who said to me, she said, you really can't sit back and let it happen.
You have to stay involved, and you have to stay informed in IT.
So in looking at IT, staffing is sort of different, because the titles of the jobs are changing rapidly
and the roles are changing, as well. I mean, those are not easy audits that we could just come in
to do the day and report instantly. We've been working on it, and there have been changes.
While we've been working on it and we're bringing up sort of issues or ideas, the management
has been working on it. And I know that while we've been working on some of those staffing
audits there has been a lot of work done with-- is it realignment or something? I know there's
quite a lot of work that has been done since we started working on the audit.
So that's always quite pleasing for us. I've been looking at some follow-up work, for example, on
the overtime and extra shifts, and looking at the work that bus and rail have actively done to
basically reduce, and in some areas control how much extra shifts and overtime we're using. And
we've also been kept up to date by bus, for example-- when there's a bus bridge or anything-- so
that we can expect-- we can basically get an explanation before we get the information for the
change-- at that time.
I requested and gotten information on several of the other audits. And the reason I'm trying to get
into all the audits and plan is because I'm preparing for when I have help to get the work done,
and completed. But I feel that, you know, I've made quite a good start on it.
So some of the other things that I've made a start on-- property, audit, subscriptions, controls
over financial reporting, and-- I probably should wear glasses to see it-- accounts payable. And
also, I've done some stuff on small and attractive assets. So I think that the audit time for 2019 is
going to be pretty good considering I am there on my own and I'm trying my best to do the
maximum with very little.
So I want to talk quickly on the current staffing situation. We initially put out an advert for a
Senior Auditor. We got 50 hits and we got 7 applications. I reviewed them and I realized they
were not where I needed them to be. So then, we advertised for an auditor, and we got some
applications in, and none of them where it really should be.
So I sort of felt, maybe I'm just too picky. So we sort of looked in terms of, who can we train out
of the ones who applied? And we've actually done a recruitment and we have hired an auditor

position. Now, I think this person would fit in really well, and I would bring her when she starts
so that she can meet the Board.
She actually has orientation next Monday, and starts on Tuesday. Now, with the Senior Auditor
position, we went out again and advertised. And lo and behold, we got four applications. And of
the four, I sort of went down again and said, let's look at what we can train. And I kind of went
back to the seven, and I looked at the four.
Of the four, I only thought one person might be able to do it. And then, of the seven, I sort of
chose three of them. So now, I have four people that I could interview next-- I think it's Tuesday
and Wednesday, two each day, to see if there is a possibility of recruiting one of them that we
can actually train into the position. Sometimes it's easier to keep them if you train them inside.
So that's basically where it is with the staffing. I have an intern. I may lose that intern or may not.
She's graduating at the end of the month sometime, I think. So that intern might be gone, but at
least I'll have an auditor in training by then.
So the other thing that I quickly want to touch on is audit independence. Now, according to the
Audit Charter, with is included in the packet-- I put it in there-- it says, on the independence and
objectivity. On the next page it says, manager of audit will confirm to the Board that if annually
the organizational independence of the internal and information systems audit function.
So the Manager of Internal and IT Audits will disclose to the Board any interference and
replicated indications in determining the scope of audit performing and/or communicating
results. I sort of wanted to-- because I know a lot of people are saying, audit independence, what
is she talking about? Well, I thought I'd have a few little bits, here.
Now, I'm not sure if you're familiar at all with The Yellow Book, which governs audit-government audit. So according to that Yellow Book, it talks about audits independence. And it
says, "Auditors and audit organizations should avoid situations that could lead reasonable and
inform to the parties to conclude that the auditors and audit organizations are not independent,
and therefore not capable to exercise --- objective and impartial judgment in all issues associated
with conducting the engagement and reporting on the work". Now, generally we talked about
independence comprises independence of mind and independence in our appearance. It goes on
and it says, auditors and audit organizations maintain their independence so that their opinions,
findings, conclusions, judgements, and recommendations will be impartial and will be viewed as
impartial by reasonable and informed third parties.
So independence-- threats to independence-- there's self-interest threats, there's self-review
threats, there's biased threats, familiarity threats, undue influence, management participation
threats, and structural threats. So threats can be caused by a variety of reasons. Now, because
The International Professional Practices Framework-- and this is The Red Book. This is the one
that the internal auditors issues. And they talked about independence in terms of threats.
It says, "Independence is a freedom from conditions that threaten the ability of the internal audit
activity to carry out internal audit responsibility in an unbiased manner. To achieve the degree of

independence necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities of the internal audit activity,
chief audit executive has direct and unrestricted access to senior management and the Board.
This can be achieved through a dual reporting relationship".
"Threats to independence must be managed at the individual auditor, engagement, functional,
and organizational levels--" just so that you understand. Now, as far as audits and being
independent, I do my work without interference. However, I sort of feel that in order for me to
do my work, I need support. I can't have support from a Board that doesn't know me, that doesn't
talk to me, doesn't have any conversations with me about audit. I don't feel that I have support if
I don't feel that I have communication with the Board.
So I'm offering up the opportunity to converse with the Board to have a relationship with the
Board. However, I must remain independent both of management and of the Board in terms of
my ability to do my work without bias or interference. So that's kind of one of the things I want
to bring to the Board. You guys will get my card. No, just joking.
[LAUGHTER]
So the last thing I have here was a budget request. And I did put in a budget request to get
additional staff that will be enable audit to do more work, to do more detailed work, and to
basically be in a better position than where we are in terms of achieving our own objective-achieving audit's objective.
And part of our objective-- and I know that this was just actually subjective-- is to basically look
at the effectiveness and the efficiency of RTD. And to me, that's not subjective, but it's OK. So if
you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer.
KEN MIHALIK: I know that there's going to be a few questions, and I'm guessing we're going to
see you every month from now on. Is that right?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Every month?
KEN MIHALIK: Every month?
[LAUGHTER]
DDAVE GENOVA: Careful what you ask for, Ken.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yeah. How about twice a year, like the charter says.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you're up first.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Can you tell me, young lady, your audits are requested
by the Board and by senior management, or only by the Board? And I have three questions.

ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. So let's get that one out of the way. I begin the process in
September. And what I do is, during the year I attend several different development events, et
cetera. I sit on several chief audit executives' round tables. In addition to that in September, I will
send out and request to SLT and to the Board members asking basically for anything that keeps
you up at night.
So I get some information from SLT. I get some from the Board. I also ask and the controller a
lot of times, because he usually sees things and he'll come to me, and we usually have a really
good relationship, as well. I gather all the information. I put it down on a list. And then, I start
making considerations.
So basically, I determine what gets on the plan that year. So I get requests from everyone, and
then I sort of determine a longer list than we would normally do. And then, we break the list
back down from there as to what we can do with the resources that we have.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was part A.
DAVE GENOVA: Can I just clarify one thing?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Certainly.
DAVE GENOVA: So what Ann Marie does with that proposed list is that it comes back to the
Board, and the Board adopts the audit plan every year. So the Board approves the next year's
audit plan that internal audit does.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I have been a part of that, my-- So just two more parts to this. So how
many audits are pending at this moment?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: On the list that we have, I know that we had four. We had four
in-- We had four IT audits that I put on there. And the reason I put the full amount of IT audits-because they take a lot more time and they're much more in-depth audits. In addition, I do not-- I
will not-- assign audits to people who can't do them. Because I have the knowledge for the IT
audits at the moment, I'm the one there with the knowledge for the IT audits, I would take
control of that.
We have not been able to hire IT auditors, because they're a lot more expensive and people are
not really moving around as much when the economy is this good. I have on there-- I have
about-- I have 12 other audits. Now, one of them is the Annual Audit plan for 2020. I wouldn't
really do anything on that until September.
And the other one is follow-up audits, which will goes right through the year. So that's basically
10 additional ones. Of those I probably have--ten plus four-- I probably have nine on the go at
the moment. And the reason we do several is because audits don't just start and end. If I'm doing
property, and I go and I ask property, can I get a list of this?

They're preparing it. I'm doing something else in the meantime. So we usually have a lot of them
on the go at the same time, and a lot of them finishing around-- closer to the end of the year than
the early part.
KATE WILLIAMS: So all of ballpark we have 15 going on-- 14, 15, maybe, different subject
matters?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Like, eight or nine.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, cool. So of those, how many of those have been requested by a certain
person?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I usually don't have many requested by anybody on my list.
When I get requests, I usually have a look at them. I've had lots of requests in the past of things
that were not auditable.
If it's is not auditable, I say we go back to the person and inform them that it's not auditable. You
know, I've had requests in the past to audit individuals, which I said to the Board member, I don't
audit individuals, you know? So it's not like I'm going to get an audit, be it from the Board
member or from management, for anybody else and just do it because I got it from them. And if I
deem it auditable, unless I know that it is auditable and I can justify auditing it, it really doesn't
make the list.
KATE WILLIAMS: Perfect. Thank you very much for that and for that clarification.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. Thank you, Ann Marie. I think what
you're doing is really heroic, and your job is rather monolithic. I have a couple of questions for
you. Is there anyone who would be undermining your independence in this agency to do your
work?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I don't think anyone is bold enough to try.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would think so.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I wouldn't. I would say that I wouldn't. I'm in a position to not
tolerate it.
ROLF ASPHAUG: If you'd excuse me, I think it would be inappropriate in a public setting if
there are issues about performance of individual employees.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: With all due respect, Counsel, I'm not asking for names, but if there is an
issue--

ROLF ASPHAUG: I thought you were.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, anyone in this organization is going need to give me a name, but if
there's a problem with you executing your work independently because somebody is standing in
your way, that needs to have a conversation-- maybe not here, but somewhere.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Absolutely. If there were someone, I probably wouldn't wait
for the Board meeting. I'd just take action. But there isn't anyone.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. I'm wondering, are you a part of the new Board member orientation
process?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So there was a time for you to tell everybody your function and that
sort of thing.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what concerns me the most is the IT. That is such a mission critical
thing for this agency from payroll to delivering our passengers to their destination safely and
securely all day, every day. I'm wondering, because the level of information that you need, or the
person to be so well informed about different types of information technology and cybersecurity,
is it reasonable for you to think of contracting somebody out like on a on-call kind of basis, as
we do have budgets provided for Henry Stopplecamp, or maybe I think even Heather has these
budgets that are open so that if they need to pull somebody in for something that is there to
supports their mission critical job. Do you have that ability?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I don't have a budget for that. However, I'm sort of very
skeptical usually about pulling people into audit temporarily, especially in IT. Because we have
access to sensitive information, I always feel like I need people who are going to commit
themselves to RTD.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'm thinking of somebody like Deloitte and Touche, who's already
got the security clearance for CDHS and all that, and is already doing IT consulting.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I haven't considered that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, and thank you for your hard work.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What kind of a plan do you have for a career path for the
auditors you're going to be bringing in and trying to train them? In other words, I'd hate to see
you in a position where somebody could come in here for a year, and at the end of the year, then
they just go right back out the door and go someplace else and make considerably more money.

Then, you're back in square one and you haven't made any headway whatsoever. And have you
thought about maybe hiring two to take you through that process, knowing that maybe somebody
isn't going to work out?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Well, at the City of Aurora I actually had that. But they at least
tend to stay three years, so we will be prepared to at least get three years of them before they
actively move on to either the state of federal government, because by then they're well trained.
We cannot expect that they will come in, they will be trained, and they would miss that
opportunity to go out well trained with three years of experience and get more money than RTD
can afford to pay them.
But in the meantime, we can get three years out of them, then to me that's fantastic.
BOB BROOM: Then, the flip side of that is, let somebody else train them for three years and
then you hire them.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: The problem is, when they're trained for three years out there,
they're going in the big firms and we can't afford to pay them. We haven't got that kind of
money. We're not offering that type of salary. So that's why we're not getting the applicants.
BOB BROOM: OK. The other suggestion I would have-- and maybe this is something for a
future retreat-- would be talk about the Board forming an audit committee or something, where
three or four could meet with you on a regular basis to meet that need, and then people can
circulate through that committee over the years in order to become more familiar with what you
do and that type of thing. But you know, I think you do a great job, and thank you very much.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Lubow, you're next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I also wanted to address the issue that you had
raised, Ann Marie, about functionally having a need for interaction with the Board, but not really
having it, and that perhaps there's a way to think of a process that could be created that would
foster more of a relationship, such as maybe, just as an idea, on an annual basis setting up oneon-ones for half an hour or 15 minutes long, or however long, by phone or in person, to discuss
with each Board member what their interests are, and perhaps teasing out of that not only a
relationship but ideas for audits that might be interesting to them.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: That could certainly be something that we could start around
September. It would be basically, what might be, keeping Board members awake, or something
like that.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah-- just some process where there is an interaction. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Some good ideas. Director Catlin, you're next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I had the same question as Director Folska
about the possibility of contracting out. I know that that is done frequently. And I also agree with
Director Broom about forming an audit committee. I think that's an excellent idea.
A couple of things-- you have a number of audits, and they cover a wide array of areas within
this department. It's very, very diverse. And you are advertising for auditors who cover all of
those bases. So just asking the question, might it be better to isolate some of those areas within
the department and hire auditors that are specialists in those areas-- just thinking, because you're
trying to be all things to all people and have three people within their department that are all
things to all people, and I just haven't seen audit organizations that are quite that way.
So it's just a comment. And then, I think I mentioned this in our orientation, new member Board
orientation that I sat in on. And I would be very interested in seeing your risk assessment, and
how you come up with your proposed to audit plan to see where the vulnerabilities are within the
organization and how audits then are subsequently prioritized to address the risks to the
organization. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook, you have the last word with Ms.
Isaac-Heslop.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll try to keep it brief. Thank you. I agree with many of the comments. I like
the idea of the audit committee and the risk assessment. I mean, this function is pretty essential
in terms of safeguarding the organization and trying to identify those risks and so forth. And
because of the dotted line relationship that exists with the Board, I just wanted to voice the wish
that the budget requests-- which normally you would present a recommended budget, and that's
really appropriate.
But for this function, if she had to request it feels like she needs additional funding, I feel like
she ought to have the chance to make that case to us. And I would seek your opinion about it, but
I just wanted to add that piece just to provide that buffer and independence that you're talking
about.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Cook. And thank you, Ms. Isaac-Heslop.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you guys, so much.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Sorry. Trying to hit the right -KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
DIRECTOR MENTEN: I don't know that we heard a dollar amount for the budget request. Did
we? And what span of time was that for the midterm financial plan?

DAVE GENOVA: So could I recommend that we would provide the Board with that, because it
is part of the MTP request. So it's more than just one line item, it's a plan that goes over a number
of years for a number of different staff members. So it's something that Ann Marie, myself, and
with Heather's work through HR, we've been developing a plan on that. So I could make
whatever that request was that was submitted in the MTP available to the Board so you can
review it.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'd like to know what the dollar amount-- what's the amount of labor
hours that that would provide, and any other information that might be related to that. One last
question. You have the existing intern right now. How many hours a week are you getting out of
the intern?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I get anything under 20, but most times its 14 or 15 hours.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and the amount of time that you invested to get the intern up
and running at a pace where you weren't constantly holding the hand every step of the day-- was
it worth it?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I think it's absolutely worth it with this particular instance. This
is the third one that I've had. The other two who amazingly have gone to big auditing firms, even
though I think they were not as good as this person. But I think the hand holding side of it-- I sort
of give them work that I think they can do, that will assist me. But I'm giving something as well
as getting something from them.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And you already have a request in process for the next semester
of students?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: This one should actually stay for one year. And I've basically
sat with Metro State, and I've established a relationship with them so that RTD can get, like,
accounting majors for our audit interns in the future.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. One last note-- you probably don't ever want to say to RTD-- or to a
Board of Directors-- I want to get all of the things that keep you up at night.
[LAUGHTER]
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Not all of them.
NATALIE MENTEN: But just a suggestion. Thank you, Ann Marie.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Thank you. And I see that Heather's already raring to go on Wi-Fi.
But before we do that, let's take a short break before we move on to the Wi-Fi.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[AUDIO OUT]

KEN MIHALIK: We will continue now with the balance of the updates. Heather I will let you
update us on the Wi Fi on RTD vehicles. And mind you that we did all have the material and so I
ask you to limit to highlights or really important information.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, I want to introduce Kim Heldman, Chief Information Officer and
Senior Manager of IT, and Tom Hughs who is our ITS Manager. Tom is going to be doing the
presentation. We have had several requests from Board members about exploring Wi FI on buses
and trains. So, we wanted to bring you back research that Tom and his group have been working
on for multiple years. They have been asked to speak at different conferences and been on
panels. And have worked with different entities around the country as part of different
committees. With that I am going to turn it over to him and he will hit the highlights and then
we'll be ready to take questions.
TOM HUGHS: Very good. Thank you Heather, Thank you Chair and members of the Board.
Glad to be here tonight.
Kind of want to get through a little bit of information for you. Want to talk about Wi Fi in the
industry. I want to talk about technical challenges in the way that Wi Fi is deployed in mobile
environments. Briefly talk about cost and the impact on operations is to roll out a products such
as this.
With that we can get going, and I will do everything I can to get through this as quickly as
possible and hitting highlights for you. Wi Fi obviously for businesses is something that's offered
to customers, not only as a service to them, but as a service for the company itself-- to be able to
gather data, to be able to see what's going on within their business, to understand the customers,
to get information on what makes the customer happy and maybe how to better serve them.
Companies that roll out free Wi-Fi are really happy to collect data and learn customers' habits,
trends, be able to target market to them.
It's an advertising opportunity for businesses or sponsors, and it's a way to attract new customers.
And a lot of Wi-Fi rollouts, it's a way to keep a customer on premises at a bookstore or at a
coffee shop-- something like that. And it's also a huge way to differentiate business from
competitors.
One coffee shops got Wi-Fi and another one doesn't, the customers might tend to go to the one
that has the Wi-Fi, and a little more service for them. So as we look at the transit industry form
transit agencies, in a 2018 APTA fact sheet, I saw that 14% of buses that are in America now do
have Wi-Fi on board on them, that Wi-Fi service is best used in a regional or a train situation-long-distance travel.
We've always got agencies that tell us that their constituents love it. They enjoy it. When we try
to go dig up some data and see how much it's really helping the business, or what they're getting
out of it, we can't find it. It's very, very difficult to find. I can't give you a reason for that, but I
can tell you that we have tried very hard and it is very difficult to come up with it, because
nobody wants to get recorded and down on paper what they're doing with it.

So at that, RTD's got to step in and ask a question, is this a service that we just want to provide
for our customers? Is this a way that we can get information that we can offer better ridership,
on-time performance, or things like that to our customers? Is this something that we can use in
service development?
Are we just trying to get more information to learn more about that customer, and maybe even a
potential of being able to give that information to a third party somewhere that might find value
in that data? So that's a big question that's got to come to RTD where we've got to make some
decisions on that. In similar industries, airlines and cruise ships have been offering Wi-Fi for a
long time. There's a big difference in the way that they offer that.
It's usually coming from a computer that's onboard that vehicle, and it's not reaching out to the
internet for something for them to stream to. Actually, streaming and services like that are very
restricted, because it's a shared environment, and that takes a lot of bandwidth to get that
connection out to the internet. So they're able to do a lot of things.
They've actually created their own networks from the ground that can do big data exchanges up
and down between the aircraft and the ground, and get stuff on board that aircraft, not only for
operations but for customer entertainment, as well. Cruise ships are the same kind of way-- that
they've got satellite-based communications to try to pull some up. But everywhere you go, you'll
find that they really limit a lot of bandwidth-- high bandwidth usage such as streaming services.
Amtrak is another good example. They've got infrastructure that they've built out alongside the
tracks so that the services isn't really on their vehicle, it's along the alignment. So customers are
using that as they're moving along. It's a very expensive way to do it. There were some articles
that we just recently saw about five years, expecting train Wi-Fi service to be expanding by five
times what it is now.
A lot of that is dependent on rolling this kind of technology out to where it is actually being put
up by that provider, and not on board the vehicle. So it's not something that we can really look at
in the bus business too much, but definitely in train.
CDOT is a partner of ours. We've been working with them a lot. They do have service there.
We've asked them for information on that. They don't have a lot of information that they've
gathered either. We need to differentiate with notice that that service very much is a regional
service.
Passengers that are on those buses are on there for a couple hours, sometimes even more-- from
Grand Junction. They've got time that they spend on that. They, too, restrict any kind of
streaming so that they're looking at email, looking at social media-- things like that. I've asked
the program manager there, what are some of your biggest problems?
And they say, loss of connection. We've got that one cell connection, and when it goes down,
everybody that's using that service at that point loses that connection as has to wait for it to come
back up. I was able to get some data from their vendor providing me with some of the usage
data. I was able to go to it myself and try and get some numbers on it.

With what I was figuring out there. About 23% percent of their riders use that service on board
they did a survey of their passengers. And they said, do you use the restrooms, do you use the
luggage storage, do you use the Wi Fi, do you use the bike racks. That survey came back that 96
percent of riders use the Wi FI. But actually when we get down to who is using it, it is not near
that number.
So, there again the numbers that we may be able to collect are not actually what we are seeing. I
just got some data back today that shows that the usage, maybe even a little bit higher, but not
much-- maybe pushing 50 percent. But again, not somebody that's watching their favorite
episode of The Office while they're on the bus. They're pulling down files and doing work, they
are commuters.
I was able to pull a report out of a Who's on Board Report from 2016. Again, said that
passengers really value the on-time service. They value being able to get somewhere quickly and
being able to have a bus stop near their house. And their quote out of this side that I thought-that the transit riders say the least important improvements are power outlets and Wi-Fi out of a
list of a dozen potential improvements.
Our findings call into question the fad among transit agencies touting free Wi-Fi for customers
who don't strongly care for it. Then, they had a chart there. This is very hard to read, but at the
top is if the bus is on time. You've got tap card media in there, and you've got good on-time, real
time passenger information. And down at the bottom, Wi-Fi makes an appearance. We did our
own survey when we rolled out the Flatiron Flyer service to Boulder.
We gave a list of amenities and we gave a list of improvements. And asked what would you
strongly like to see and what do you really not care for. A comfortable seat, the bus being on
time was the top up there. When we got to a unique paint job, or naming of the service that was
on the other end. WI Fi it was right in the middle with no real preference for it and no preference
against it.
When we looked at mobile environment, and the technology, it is very challenging. If you've got
a restaurant, a shopping mall, a convention center. You can get a big pipe to meet your
customers. You've got access right there to the telecoms-- to the CenturyLinks, to the Comcasts-to be able to get a big pipe, if you've got a couple of thousand people at the convention center,
you can get a pipe that's going to move information back and forth to the internet to them very
well.
If you get out into the mobile environment, we're limited to cellular connections. It doesn't matter
how much you want to pay. You're not going to get much more than what you can get out of
cellular connection.
So when we break that down-- I don't want to get into technology, here-- but we do have a math
problem to look at. And if we can get four megabits per second to our buses on a consistent
level, we're doing great, there. The math says that, hey, that's good enough to support about 30
users. When we start getting into streaming, though, everything changes there.

To stream audio or podcasts takes about a half a megabit per second. Netflix says, don't try to
stream our stuff if you don't have access to 1.5 megabits per user. We're looking at a fourmegabit pipe. We've got people that maybe want DVD quality or high definition quality. Its five
megabits per second.
We've already consumed that pipe in just a couple of users. So that's why in mobile
environments, the streaming is extremely limited. It's not offered. It's not that the first person
gets on it can use it, it's 20 people that may be hooked up to it are not going to be able to use it.
So it's very hard to do.
That's where the content blocking is absolutely required to share this kind of service. The riders'
individual cell phone is going to be a much better experience for them. Cellular industry, when it
first rolled out, data wasn't really such an issue as downloading mp3s on Napster. And things like
that started becoming more commonplace. We started getting into streaming video, streaming
audio, and the providers really had to find a way to try and throttle that back, because of the
bandwidth wasn't available in their buildout and in their facilities and their towers. Their back
haul from the towers.
They've done a lot of work on that. They've done a whole lot of work on it. They've come long
way in 4G LTE and different variations of that that have rolled out. The tendency now is to
swing the other way. Actually, it's kind of hard to find a plan that isn't unlimited in data. The
competition is so high between the carriers that they want to offer that service out there.
So your average user is going to have their own data plan with unlimited data, and might not be
so quick to try and jump on the Wi-Fi somewhere if they can use their own cellular plan for that.
As we look at 5G, the new generation of technology that's rolling out, we're looking at better
networks. We're looking at better customer experiences all the way around in the use of their cell
phones. So we've got to remember that as we look forward.
RTD is Wi-Fi. We use Wi-Fi to download all of our stuff off of our equipment back into garage
concentrators and back up to the buses. Every time the bus pulls in at night, it says, hey, here's
what I did today. I opened the door 914 times. I have 725 passengers get on and of me.
And here's the video that you needed to look out for an incident. That's all that back and forth.
That's a big pipe that we use, there. When we get out on the road, we're on a very small pipe on
that cellular connection. And actually, the way we use that today is we just pull the buses every
30 seconds to make sure that they are matched up and synced up with our back office operations.
So I'm responsible for our data plan and making sure that we don't go over, because when we go
over, we go over by tens of thousands of dollars, and we've got to make sure that that doesn't
happen. As we get into newer technologies, and as we get into live look, where we're able to look
at video on the bus. If there's an incident going on that we need somebody from our security
command center to look in, we've got to look at that we need to get to an unlimited data plans to
be able to do that.

So all this work we've put in here has been great, but we're being forced to move that way, as
well, in the industry. Right now, we pay $8 a line for that. And when we get into an unlimited
plan, we're looking at $30 a line. So we're going from $100,000 a year right now to half a million
a year in cell bills if we go unlimited data.
And another complication beyond that is that security demands that we do not let somebody that
is using public Wi-Fi in a vehicle be on the same kind of network that can get them back into
RTD Enterprise or any kind of our own networks. So that almost calls for duplication of
services-- that we've got one unlimited plan for Wi-Fi users and one unlimited plan for us to be
able to get our operational data off of those vehicles.
Bustang actually has two unlimited cards on every bus just for their Wi-Fi because they cover so
much territory and so much ground that they've got T-Mobile and Sprint as providers. When one
is bad, they switch to the other one, back and forth. So that's costly for them.
As we get to use cases, we know that the IT department at RTD has the expertise and the
resources to be able to pull that data, go through it and see who was using the internet in what
fashions, see where people are getting on and off of our vehicles. Even people that may not be
logged onto the Wi-Fi-- we can see if their phone is at least turned onto the Wi-Fi, where they're
getting on and off, getting a little bit of traveler information, there.
We've also got other systems, like our CAD/ AVL system, our smart card system that can give us
a lot of that data, as well. So it's not a big, huge improvement on what we've already got
available.
Risks-- any risk, there are risks to any kind of wireless technology anywhere. As I mentioned, we
want to make sure that we would always have our networks isolated and not mixed. There's
privacy issues that we've got to also look at. And what are our customers' privacy issues? What
data can we own? What data can we sell?
What data can we use and for what purposes? If a third party comes in and is providing this to
us, did we just give that data to them? There's some things that we need to look into. Wi-Fi users
from a public Wi-Fi system-- it's a high-risk environment.
There are hackers out there that can get in, identity theft issues, attach malware to your
machines, to your equipment, maybe set up a Wi-Fi network that has a very similar name to what
your business' Wi-Fi network is, spoofing people into log onto that network, put credit card
information into it, put a new username and password into it that the password is also the same
one that they use for their bank accounts.
You just gave them a credit card, as well. There's a lot of risk using public Wi-Fi. So I just
wanted to bring that to anybody and everybody's attention. I'm sure you're well aware of it.
Operational issues-- there's training issues. If we've got a product such as this out, we need to
make sure that our customer care agents are well versed on any questions that might be coming

in. Questions that could go to our operators-- how do I get logged into Wi-Fi? Oh, there's a sign
right there on the bus that shows you where you do it.
But we offer personal services to people. We need to be nice to them, and operators are good if
you ask those kind of questions. Communications people who've got complaints that are going
out on the social media-- do we want to respond to those? Do we want to just let them go?
We've got legal operational issues. On privacy of data, how we can own the data, what we can do
with the data. Civil rights is big-- Title XI. If we're offering services on the Flatiron Flyer, is
there somebody who's going to say, hey, I can get that same service on the 15L. What's going on
here?
So those issues are out there. Not to mention the operational issues in IT, and traffic control, and
taking care of the equipment, and all of the things that come along with that. When we rolled out
our CAD/AVL system, the new computer-aided dispatch automatic vehicle location system in
2012, I took just a real quick look to see how long it took us and what was involved in that.
The project, itself-- there were many different bus types that we had to make a design for on
where to put the antennae, where the powers run through those buses, where equipment can be
mounted. It took us six months just to get through that part of it. Once we got into installations, it
took us another year and a half to get all of the fixed round buses installed with this equipment.
It took 3,600 hours of project management, of coordination of the installation, and everything
that went along with that. So it was a big impact, there. We did a little estimation that if we were
to look at putting this Wi-Fi kind of equipment on all of our vehicles, it could cost us up to $3.3
million-- rough estimate-- to get this rolled out and installed and up and working on the fleet.
We've already got two projects that we're working on right now. We're adding APC to light rail
vehicles. We've got an upcoming project to collect a new account-based smartcard kind of
system, and it's going to require touching every vehicle. So we've got another project that's on
the books now to touch every vehicle. We're starting to get backed up over there.
Let's say we can get a third-party vendor that says, hey, we'll come in and take care of all of that
for you. Those issues are still going to be there from an operational standpoint. That installation
cost may go away or partly go away, but those operational issues are still going to exist. We'll
still going to have to train our people. We're still going to have to provide for project
management in getting this kind of stuff done on. Maintenance on the equipment should
something fail on a bus somewhere, now a vendor has got to figure out which of the fourteen
garages that we've got vehicles in do they need to visit to get bus number 5 back up or to get
train number 7 back on the air.
They've got to work with the individual teams at those garages to get access to those, so it kind
of goes on and on, from the complications that third party sounds attractive but there is still a lot
of operational impact on that.

In an interview I did with Michael Washington he was very quick to point out said we need to
conduct an equity analysis of the proposed implementation of Wi-Fi. The equity analysis would
identify the potential for exclusion on the basis of color, race, national origin, or low income
status. At that point, we've got to look at buses. We've got a look at light rail and paratransit.
We've got to look at all the services that are out there. We've got to look at our stations. We've
got to look at our platforms, and anything that else might come into play for that.
Thank you very much for that opportunity to share a little bit of information, there. Again, we
need to say, what is our RTD's vision, here? What are we trying to accomplish? What do we
want to get out of this?
How do we measure success? Do we know what success really is as we're moving into this kind
of an endeavor? We'll continue to gather data on this. We're all kind of geeks where I come from
them, and we like this stuff in the first place.
So we keep track of these kind of things are going on. We do have homework to do. We need
you to do-- and maybe just a suggestion of ridership surveys, legal reviews of the kinds of things
that we would want to do with the data. We've got emerging technology that's coming up. Maybe
we could do a different kind of a deployment.
We've got Wi-Fi at Union Station down in the bus concourse there. Maybe could look at doing
something in the station in Boulder or at Civic Center, things like that, just trying to mix things
up. Maybe do a little more in this effort while we look at other things that we've really got to
consider before we jump in and go anywhere else.
So thanks again for your time. I appreciate that. Hopefully, we gave you some good information
to look at.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Very informative. I’m just looking around to see if
there's any questions.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Director Menten, you'll start off.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, is the purpose of this update to get some feedback from the Board of
Directors whether they believe you should proceed along this path?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that's part of the update. We've been requested because we have
received information that some people were interested in potentially doing an unsolicited
proposal, or that we should be considering this. We want to bring this forward and let you know
that there is a lot more to it than somebody slapping on a little puck on the side of the bus and
saying this is where we go.

And it's extremely expensive. And more than even the cost, we're very concerned about privacy
issues. We have not dealt with this as far as what data we can collect. Our legal department is
very, very strict on our privacy policies, and right now a lot of this stuff that some of these
people are proposing we would not be able to collect on our individuals.
However, I want to note that that particular issue about data and what we collect, how we use it,
and how third parties might use it or want to buy it from us, is not going away. It is going to get
more intense. We're going to get more requests.
And so at some point, this Board is going to have to deal with that issue about data, and what that
means to us and how we want to use different data that we already collect, and that information
that might be available as additional technology emerges. We all know that our phone is a
walking beacon of where we are at any given time, and what we're doing.
Yeah, no privacy on there. So we're going to have to deal with this issue in one way or another.
The other issue around Wi-Fi is, it's going to be obsolete within a few-- once we go to 5G, we
wouldn't get this implemented for multiple years. As you saw, it takes us a couple of years to
implement, and we already have two projects that are of a much higher priority right now going
on that we have to do.
So getting it in the queue would be a while out there. But what we wanted to bring up is, there
are things that are going to come up, there. We need to be dealing with the privacy issues. We
need to be dealing with the data issues. And we need to be dealing with continuing to keep an
eye on emerging technologies. And we are committed to doing that.
KEN MIHALIK: General Manager?
DAVID GENOVA: Just to fully address your question, too, Director Menten-- really, this is just
information for the Board tonight. So we're not looking for really any direction or
recommendation or anything. Tonight was to just simply provide the best information that we
could to you on the status of Wi-Fi in our industry and technology-wise. So it's for information.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I just had the opportunity and I'd like to share that I don't
think this is a priority for me, personally. And we have so many other more fundamental things
to take care of, like capital repairs, on-time performance-- all of these other different things that I
would not even support-- going down the road for ridership survey regarding this. -- I mean, I
didn't see on the list bathrooms. To me, that is a fundamental thing. Wi-Fi is not.
And I'm not saying go down that road, but I'd like to end that-- end it. Personally, you spend your
time on doing this, and I don't see it is a priority of the agency in my own personal opinion, but
that's me.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I would vote to table this for five years if I had the chance.

[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: And if that's a hypothetical motion, I'll hypothetically second that.
[LAUGHTER]
Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you for that presentation. I have a couple of things
I want to say. Since we're looking at Bustang, they are increasing their ridership. Their ridership
is not going down.
So, I don't know how much Wi-Fi has to do with that, but if we are using them as a comparison,
that's something to think about. Also, on the Amtrak, which I've ridden several times lately.
Everybody's using a plug-in. The Wi-Fi was terrible, but they plug in their phones.
And so sometimes that's a compensatory-- the fact that you can power it up and watch your video
makes people feel good, even if they can't get Wi-Fi. So there's some looking at how that
appears, because the question here is, what are we trying to accomplish? And what we're trying
to accomplish is, we want people to ride.
And how do we measure success? Maybe in ridership. And so there's some pretty basic answers
to that stuff. There's a question that I didn't hear coming up at all. Could we charge? Could we
have a fee to log in to our customer based, not our operational based Wi-Fi, and have we looked
at that?
Because I tend to agree with the conclusion, which is that we are all going there. How many
people in this room don't have their cell phone on them? Oh, and where'd you forget it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't bring it to the Board meetings.
KATE WILLIAMS: My point being that that is where we are going, and if we want to continue
to be the T2, then Wi-Fi is part of that, unfortunately. And I get that there's security issues, but if
we want to move toward the future, which is what we're trying to do, then I agree. We're going to
have to deal with it sooner or later, and the sooner the better. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. You know, when I read this, I
thought about it for a long time. And I would have to say that I am opposed to it. And the reason
I'm opposed to it, when I looked at the math, it was over almost $4 million just in the initiation.
We have a $4 million gap for affordable fares.
We just had a long conversation in our last Board meeting about not having an equitable transit
system in the outlying areas because we don't have enough money, and we're cutting routes. And
I think that, for my constituents, they would want that money put into service rather into Wi-Fi,

because a lot of people who do have cell phones also have mobile hotspots, and because our
routes are short distances, and we don't have very many.
I was on Bustang this weekend to Glenwood Springs, and they've got it. I didn't use it. I used my
hotspot. But within the metropolitan area where we have service to community members, I think
they would rather have service. And in my community, we have a lot of folks who wouldn't have
a smartphone who wouldn't be able to utilize it anyway, so there's an equity issue coming in it.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate the information
that's been provided, and the viewpoints that's been espoused, including by some of the Directors
here. I do you note in looking at the material presented, some of the data that we see here are not
sourced, and are perhaps somewhat dated in terms of the information.
And I think there is what I would call when it's-- again, it's simply an overview and an attempt to
summarize a large bit of information. So of course, it can't be as detailed as it might be. But there
was-- it struck me as a relative lack of specificity relative to the dollars involved, particularly
relating to the potential installation cost recovery possibilities, and the continuing revenue stream
associated with sale of information-- sale of data, which I think is something that would in fact
be a significant return.
Because there are those who have said, well, why would we spend money on this? And the
response is, perhaps we wouldn't need to spend money on this. And perhaps we would make
money from it. And I don't think we've had all that quite articulated here yet, but again, it's an
informational update to begin the process of a dialogue.
I will say in sum, this Director intends to continue to pursue the exploration of Wi-Fi on buses
and trains, because I think it is something that in fact can provide an incentive to increase
ridership, and it can provide an income stream, and be at no cost.
There are three pretty good reasons for me to want to continue to pursue it, and I know there are
other directors who are absent this evening who would express that as well, but I don't purport to
speak for them. But my own opinion is, yes, I think we will continue to follow up on this as long
as I have the ability to speak. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: That could be a while.
[LAUGHTER]
I hope that's a long time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just say to that, I think that's where the data issue comes in. Where
you can make money is selling the data. And right now, even just dealing with the Uber issue,

and legal is doing what they're supposed to be doing, but they have not even allowed us to share
that information, let alone sell it. So we have to get really into-And it is one of the things we will continue to pursue with legal is, what is it that we're trying to
accomplish? What can we do legally or not when it comes to data and data sharing? And getting
passed that idea that we're government, and we give everything away.
And that is an issue to overcome, too. And we've had that conversation here about that
perception. So we just have a lot of work to do around the data issue. Whether it's Wi-Fi or not,
we need to deal with the data issue, because it's hitting us smack in the face with all of the fare
collection stuff we're doing, with all of that partnerships we've entered into lately. It's not going
away.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, I understand you're on the phone, now. Do you
have any comments or questions on the Wi-Fi presentation?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, thank you, Chair Mihalik. You know, I did hear it when I got
disconnected, but thank you very much for all the work you did in putting this analysis together.
And you're right. There's a lot of risks.
And I think that if we had all the risks that we knew about for FackTracks or anything else we
do, we wouldn't do anything. What I do also see is, we put a lot of money out to purchase things- contacts and consultants. And where is the cash coming back?
The Board has asked staff to find ways to generate other streams of revenue. So I would
encourage staff to continue exploring this opportunity, because it may bring about a pretty decent
value factor for us in leveraging what we have. And like what Chair Tisdale said, this is
something that's coming, and we should continue to explore ways to monetize what we have.
You know, putting Wi-Fi on a bus is like putting wheels on a bus. And I think all those
considerations are appropriate, and they should be taken into account. My question for you, Tom,
is, what is CDOT doing with the data that they do collect on their Wi-Fi?
TOM HUGHS: Nothing that I'm aware of. As I was trying to collect information from them, they
really didn't have any data of what was happening there, of what their usage was. The data that I
got was directly from the vendor that's providing that.
So they may have other things going in other departments-- the people that I work with through
the Bustang project and the dispatch project that we are working with them on. There was
nothing there that anybody could provide me with for anything that they were using from that
data that they collect there. The vendor said that was the first time that it ever actually been
asked for it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, well, so maybe there is a partnership between RTD and CDOT to
monetize that data, and then help CDOT achieve their goals as well as help us reach ours with
additional revenue, to support all of the other programs that we want to do for underserved

communities and improve our equity offerings. So I would encourage you to continue exploring
this, and find out what other kinds of agencies are doing with Wi-Fi.
I think there are 14% of transit agencies in America that have Wi-Fi on their buses. Is that right?
TOM HUGHS: It was 14% of the buses in America through all the transit agencies-- just 14% of
the buses that have Wi-Fi.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what year was that data collected?
TOM HUGHS: That was the APTA 2018 fact sheet that I got that information off of.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great. So maybe drilling down and getting some more information from
them. You know, everything we do here at RTD isn't easy, and Heather it was great just talking
about all the other things and the CAD/AVL and all of that. And so thank you guys who are used
to doing hard work. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Thank you. And we're going to move on to the midterm financial
plan update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: For an essence of time, I have both Susan Cohen and Jannette
Scarpino coming up. We're not going through the presentation, but we did want to focus on two
pages in your packet, which is the two cash flow summaries-- packet page 225 and 229.
We do have a few things that we do need to point out to you. And one of them is, we mentioned
last time that we were going to show you what it would look like if we did not do a fare increase
in 2022 and 2025. We do need some feedback on that this evening as we do not have the
manpower, bandwidth, time to produce multiple scenarios of both FasTracks and the base
system, with and without fare increase.
So we need to get some feedback on what's kind of direction the Board would like us to move
forward as we move forward in this very short timeframe over the next couple of months, and
whittling down project selection and trying to bring this into balance. So with that-- well, I have
one more point to make. And then, I'm going to have Jannette just quickly walk through where
we are.
I'm sure you've looked at all the material we've presented to you-- our issues and challenges that
we've had. And we saw the sales tax presentation by LEEDS last month that showed that on a
more even trajectory than a spiked trajectory in the future.
The one thing I did want to mention that it was not appropriate for me to come up and mention
during the T2 discussion was, within this base cash flow between 2020 and 2025, we will run
into a TABOR issue. Our TABOR exemption for the base system expires when we pay off the
bonds for T-REX, which will happen in 2024. So 2025, there will be a determination as to
whether we have to make a refund to the voters, or whether the Board's going to take action prior
to that to go back to the voters to exempt then base system from TABOR.

That will need to be a decision that is made in the next year or two. On top of that, it would not
be prudent as your CFO, or anybody else advising you from a financial standpoint, which is what
these consultants are supposed to be doing, to not come to you and say, this is an alternative that
you need to consider as far as the tax increase goes, or more bonding authority, or wherever the
case may be if you want to make those decisions.
The Board needs to know that to make an informed decision. If we didn't present that, we
wouldn't be doing our due diligence. So I just wanted to point that out. Again, it wasn't
appropriate to come up here at that time, but I feel very strongly about that. You can't present
part of the picture without giving you the whole picture.
And you can choose to do with that information whatever you want, but you need that
information to be able to move forward. And we are facing it within the next midterm financial
plan as it comes to a TABOR issue and a TABOR election that you will have to make a decision
about. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Jannette, and then Susan, just to quickly run
through where we are in our first go around. Remember-- first, but we will be back.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I'm on page 225 of your packet. Everything else that we have
presented-- the narrative that's presented in the packet you have seen in the previous session, so
we're not going to go there. So this is our high level cash flow. It's just sources and uses, what
we're trying to capture.
I will point you to line 1A which is where we have adjusted for not doing a fare increase in the
years 2022 and 2025, when it was otherwise scheduled. Line 6, then, is our gap that totaled of 88
million over the period for the base system. We have yet to identify how that gap will be closed.
The cash flow right now is fully loaded with O&M projects, expense projects, and capital
projects from last year's midterm financial plan. So all of those projects that were approved last
year have been fully loaded. That is fine, but it also means that we do not have any new project
requests in this cash flow yet.
We have updated the fleet of Line 22 for more current needs, so that is a slight difference over
what was approved last year. And in lines 24 through 26, we have funded the three reserve funds
each year of the plan. Line 29, we are not showing any financing proceeds at this time. That
doesn't mean that we wouldn't have the opportunity to do that, but we wanted to show a bare
bones picture right now.
And then finally, line 37 is our unrestricted year end fund balance. And that's what we look to
determine if this plan is balanced. And it is, but only to the extent line 6 helps us get there. And
that is the gap that we have identified that needs to be filled. So I'll stop there and Susan will talk
about the FasTracks plan.
SUSAN COHEN: It's on page 229 in the packet. I'm sorry. And it looks very similar to the base
format. I want to focus you once again on 1A, which is the impact of the fare revenue change
from the eliminated fare increase on FasTracks. And over the period 22 to 25, we'd be looking at
a $27.7 million decrease in revenues.

This format is a little bit different. Unrestricted funds-- there isn't a balancing line as there is on
the base. We'd have the year end fund balance on line 27. And if you move across from 2019 to
2024, you start seeing a deficit in 2024. And by year end 2025, you would-- a $71 and a half
million deficit that would need to be made up.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I would just add to that, so of that 71 million on FasTracks, 27.7
would be related to the revenue piece of it-- the fare revenue. And then, on the base system, of
the $88.4 million shortfall, $34 million that would be attributable to the changes that we made
regarding the assumptions around the fare increase. So either way, we have some work to do.
So it's not like if we did a fare increase and kept those numbers in there we would be balancing
today, because as Jannette mentioned, this doesn't include any new projects between now and
2025 that we already had in existing plan. We did have a significant amount of requests, as we
do. And then, on top of that, we are also employing our new asset management system to help us
identify projects that should probably be in there and be addressed so that we don't get into a
shortfall situation in the future.
We do have some time to massage those projects in over the next five or six years, but that five
to six years is within this midterm financial plan, so we need to figure out how to work through
all of those issues. So we've got a big task ahead of us before coming back to you next time as
we start to whittle away, but one of the things we did want to have a conversation with you, or at
least get some feedback tonight, is kind of where the Board is feeling about whether we should
run additional scenarios assuming fare increases in those years, or whether we should run the
scenarios without those, because they will make a significant difference as to how we proceed
with our process.
It would be difficult to carry both of them out for any length of time just because the sheer
number of scenarios we run is significant to try to get there. So we're open to feedback.
DAVE GENOVA: Heather, could you-- I'm sorry. Let me turn my -- on. Could you just point
out again the delta between what would we be solving for on the base, and on FasTracks
assuming the fare increase versus what we're solving-- so the numbers here are-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we are at about $88 million we're projecting shortfall in 2020
through 2025 on the base system. Of that, $34 million is attributable to assuming no fare
increase, which means we'd be still solving for about $50 million on the base system, although
we have some wiggle room within the unrestricted fund balance and issuing a potential COP for
buses on that, which we'll continue to look at.
On FasTracks, we don't have quite as many options there. We have $71.5 million shortfall in
2025. Of that, $30 million is related-- roughly-- $30 million to the fare increases, so that leaves
us about $40-something million in FasTracks. In FasTracks, we don't have as many solutions as
far as issuing COPs for-- we don't have anything to issue them for. And so we're kind of limited
to taking money out of reserves, such as the FISO or other board reserves, operational-type
reserves in FasTracks.

So we still have to fall for about $40 million, there. And that is without any new projects. And
we've also had new requests for potential service increases or additional security. Those type of
things still are coming through for FasTracks. So even though they're not big project-projects,
they're enhancements to the existing projects to better serve the customers-- just like we recently
went to the four-car concepts on the A Line the Eagle a year early.
That cost us an extra $6 million to do that a year early. And so continuing to try to serve our
customers that way, we tried to do that, but there's not a lot of flexibility on FasTracks to do that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The deal with the TABOR problem you talked about early on- is there any way you could refund or extend out that debt a few years?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, no. We have very limited debt left on that, and part of the Board's
own provisions say that we can't refund past the time that we already had issued the debt for. So
you can't extend that refunding period out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is that just Board policy?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Board policy, and I believe it's also TABOR and state statutes. So you
can do it within a certain thing if your refunding amount is a certain dollar amount within
TABOR, but we wouldn't make that on these bonds that are outstanding. They're so close to
being-BOB BROOM: Well, I know. I mean, you're just playing a game, but sometimes you have to
play a game.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. That was something we should have looked at when we did it
10 years ago, but it's a little late for that on that project.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks Heather for the projections. And regarding the fare revenue
change from the fare increases-- so I just wanted to see if there is a way to, instead of assuming
that the only way to increase that number is through a fare increase-- so could we for example
label it, fare revenue changes realized or fare revenue increases realized?
Just to give you an example of one thing that I understand we now could try because of the
account-based system is a strategy for peak pricing that would incentivize people to ride when
they otherwise wouldn't. And to the extent we're already running that train or running that
service, then the added revenue-- even if it's priced lower than our average-- is still money in the
bank that we wouldn't have otherwise, and for what might be the case, for not too much extra
cost.

So could just by opening up the idea and thinking about increasing that number via a variety of
things-- a mixture of things-- maybe we could include an assumption about increases, but not
preclude these other approaches that might be available to us just by kind of closing your eyes
but labeling it as only a fare increase?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So let me address that, because when we do the forecasting, we have
to be reasonable about where that money might come. We have to have some foundation to
estimate where that money might be coming from. I think some of the things that you and I have
talked about in meetings are probably somewhat doable in the future if we make changes to the
way we do business, but I don't know what that would look like-- just like I can't assume we
would be able to go with something that's depending on a vote of the people and make an
assumption about what I would put in here.
It would be very difficult to know what basis to come up with numbers to make those
assumptions. Our account-based system will not be until at least 2021, and so what that might
look like is our changing what the structure, again, of our fares would look like. We would have
to go through a public process to do that. And so for me to make an assumption what that even
looks like it would be very difficult, and it would not be keeping of how we've done this in the
past.
And that's to mean that we can't change, but I feel it would feel very uncomfortable without
knowing a basis to make revenue assumptions without having something backing it. That's why
we're extremely conservative on our grants. We don't make assumptions about new grants
coming in that we don't already receive.
So we don't make assumptions about new start money. We don't make assumptions about new
funding sources on the federal level without having a tax history. Now, some may argue that's
very conservative, but even with that conservative stance, you know how much our revenues
fluctuate from year to year just on sales tax since it's so volatile. So I would feel a little
uncomfortable doing that.
I think where the discussion also could be had regarding future cash flows and how we might
have to work on it is the fiscal policy. The Board has the ability to change the fiscal policy every
single year. We bring it to you every year in the fall.
And in that is where we talk about those fare increases. So if we want to change the fiscal policy- that's what drives us and how we do our business here is that fiscal policy. And so if we want to
bring that sooner and have a much more detailed discussion on how we want to address the fiscal
policy and the assumptions we make around fiscal, like fare increases and those types of things, I
think that would probably be a better place to have that discussion, and what other assumptions
you want to make about other revenue sources.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, it's certainly goal setting, so I was thinking that was one reason that T2
might be the place for it, especially since the timing works really well. I mean, we've got a twoyear study that will coincide with when we're looking at our next fare increase. So I just wanted

some goal setting around that, and some exploring of ideas about ways that we can increase that
number without solely relying on fare increases.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I think that's an excellent opportunity, and we have that in-- when
you see Dave's goals coming forward, there's a lot of that discussion in there, but we're not there
yet. So, I don't know what to make that assumption on. And when we get there, then I will have
more information to make those assumptions, and the Board may then direct us to make those
assumptions. But it's kind of premature to do that at this point in time without knowing what that
looks like-- in my opinion.
The Board can do whatever you want. You can direct us, but that would be my opinion.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Cook. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. So this is really so green to me.
I'm not enjoying this discussion. Let me just start there. And I agree with Director Cook about
thinking outside the box besides fare increases.
I can tell you, the community does not want to hear those words ever again. I mean, really. I'm
wondering in light of looking at the T2-- and I really like your idea of about a fiscal policy
revisit-- but I'm wondering if we need to reinstitute-- and I know this has been brought up several
times-- about reconvening the fiscal sustainability committee, where we bring people in to help
us look outside of the box to probably come up with some different ideas that we're not looking
at currently.
I just think that this is such an important issue for the region that it's going to take all of us to
really kind of sit down and shake it out a little bit. So I think from my point of view, and in my
opinion, I think we need to put everything on the table and really take a deep dive into this to see
what our other options are, and bringing in community experts who can help us look at it from
different point of view besides where our community of transit. So-- that's my opinion. Thank
you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I could just address this-- I think that's part of why we included
the financial piece of it in today's T2. We had a lot of discussion about that. I think Bill can
acknowledge that. How that would look like. And we did make a concerted effort to try to put
that in there so that they would look at bringing forward all different types of options forward to
us so that we could examine them through that process and see what's available.
I personally think that duplication of the fiscal sustainability group would probably duplicate
those efforts at the same time. And if we'll do an update on the fiscal sustainability. When you
look at that group, there wasn't much revenue that actually came out of that group. And so I'll
just be honest, I think one or two things actually worked, and it produces very little revenue out
of it. And you'll see that when we bring that forward for the regular update that we bring in.
I think it's next month we'll bring that forward. So I am open to any idea that anybody can come
up with, but if it was out there right now, we'd be doing it. And so that's why I think going

through the T2 process of trying to bring together not only solutions about how we can improve
operations and those type of activities, but the finance piece that would work within that
framework. Is really important to look at them together, because you probably need to reduce
costs and you probably need to improve revenue.
And if you can do those in a way that are joined, you're going to be much more successful than
doing it in a disjointed effort. And that's why we try to combine those. I'm very hopeful that we'll
get some really good information out of that. We'll still have to see.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Can you tell me the recent dollars on if we did not have the
exemption of-- or not within the-- the TABOR-- time out, what would we have been refunding?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't know that number, in a way, it would be almost impossible to
calculate. We would have to know the tax-- the property values every single year, and what that
would have done in relationship to our revenues coming in, and those type of things. So I mean,
we basically would have refunded, just off the top of my head, would have refunded everything
we collected from the additional sales tax to some degree. But Susan has tried to calculate that
for 2024, and until we get to the year before, it's almost impossible to calculate.
NATALIE MENTEN: We don't even know really that we would be refunding?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Not at this time. It depends. So if we have a really good year in sales
tax collection the year before, the chances for us to refunding-- as well as property tax. We're
dependent on property tax. Property assessments-- so if property assessments are really high the
year before, then there is a good chance we would not have to refund. If there's a recession
leading up to that and property values go down significantly in 2024, there's a really good chance
we'd be refunding. So it is all dependent on what happens in that previous year before we hit that
marker.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Well, I just got my property assessment, along with a little
protest form.
[LAUGHTER]
Wow. So I'll be doing the protest. But on a separate note there, you know, it was interesting
because-- you know, and going through six years of this, sitting here in these seats, one or
another, we went through the policy. We used to do the annual fare increase. And somewhere it
generated-- and said no, people have a problem with it, so let's do it every three years.
I remember voting no on that. The fiscal sustainability-- if you look back at that plan that
included things like the naming rights. It included, maybe we should do our own sales tax
collection. We went into those waters and we backed out. It included parking. Where did that
resolution go to?

The Board really, as far as I know, said move forward on that. I don't know where that ever
dropped off. So let me keep going.
All right, let's cut expenditures. Let's become very green. Let's become-- we did that. I don't
know what else we can tap into, there. And I don't think the fiscal sustainability task force is
dead, it is part of the financial administration audit committee, as far as my understanding. It is
active.
It could be resurrected. I'd love to be part of that, and be part of this audit committee that we're
talking about, and definitely the CORA one.
[LAUGHTER]
But at the end of the night, what you wanted to know is whether you should plan for a fare
increase. Now, I'm not going to be on Board, and this is a whole other challenge for you. You're
talking 15 members, of which X of them won't even be here, and you're going to get new Board
directors. And they're going to come in, and they won't know the history. So for me, I'd be going
for a fare increase. But it doesn't mean diddly, because I won't be here.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right. But remember, this is a planning document.
NATALIE MENTEN: I understand.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have a responsibility to our customers and the public and our
taxpayers to show them reasonable assumptions that we can make. And a Board can come in
tomorrow and change that every year, but our responsibility is to get your input as a Board, and
how do you want this plan to look for this period of time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So in response to that, I would like to see the estimated sales tax
projections reduced by some percentage. But for me, I've just not had a lot of faith in-- I would
feel it's safer to post projections well reduced so that we're working on a much tighter budget,
and say that we're going to the public for the fare increase.
So that's the answer you wanted from somebody. I don't know that you got a response from any
of the previous commenters. It was more of the, let's try this, let's try that. But you did say you
need an answer right away.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I needed direction. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, at least 1 of 15, so there you go.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow? And make sure you provide
your direction.
[LAUGHTER]

JUDY LUBOW: Or else. OK, thank you, Chair Mihalik. This is a conversation I've been waiting
for six years. I mean, this is core about how we're going to continue to operate. And it seems to
me that kind of pushing staff to not include the fare increase because so many of us really don't
like it is creating this conversation, because realistically, we need it. In the present framework,
we need that money.
So that begs the question-- well, can we change the present framework in some way? And I think
that's a very important question for us to ask. You know, should we be more regional and less
local? I mean, to me, I think it's important to ask these questions so that we can come up with
different figures, different costs different expenses.
But in the meantime, you have to do these plans. So it's almost like, in my opinion, there needs to
be parallel work done. One is you've got to be reasonable. You can't be operating in the red. But
some of us really would like to see changes.
Our constituents really don't want the fare increased all the time. It's a system that is not popular.
It just isn't. And I would love to see more experimentation-- within the context of, well, we have
to do for now-- but serious experimentation about, are there different ways to deal with getting
money, like something that Shelley Cook was talking about. And this is forcing us into that
discussion, and I feel like you really need to have.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I appreciate that, because we were trying to force you into this
discussion.
[LAUGHTER]
And then, I was going to say, because year I bring this fiscal policy to you, and you just approve
it-- no discussion. And then, a week later I get, we shouldn't be doing a fare increase, or we
should do it. But your fiscal policy drives us-- I mean, maybe you don't realize. It drives the
work that we do. And so because we couldn't get that conversation started through that process,
the best way to have this conversation is to show you in black and white what it means and what
do we do about it.
And I didn't expect that we'll solve the problem tonight by any means, but at least we're having a
conversation. And then maybe as we go through these policies and things that we bring forward,
we can really have an in-depth discussion and set aside some time to do that so that we can really
have those conversations about what does that mean, and what are the levers that you have to
pull. Like I said, if you do this, then there's a consequence. But if you do this, there's a different
consequence to it.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. And I would love to have work done that says, you know, if we don't
want to raise the fares, these are our options, and still be fiscally responsible. We can't, you
know, go off the cliff. We can't. What are our other options?
And I don't see that ever really being discussed, and I would love it to be. And I agree with you
from the little I know the sustainability stuff was kind of pretty. It was just pretty, and it looked

really raising money. So I think there needs to be looking at the mission. I mean, maybe the
mission needs to be reevaluated in some deep way. And I'd love to have a discussion about it.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. We are approaching 9:30 tonight. Is it possible that everybody goes
around-- at least the speakers in the queue and give you direction whether it's continue with the
prescribed fare increase or without? We have four more updates and another committee meeting.
LYNN GUSSINGER: OK, that makes me first. I share a lot of Director Lubow and others'
concerns about continuing to raise fares. Is the number that we're projecting with in terms of the
fare increases at around 10%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. It's roughly around there. It goes up and down depending on
inflation. We've been calculating roughly 3% inflation.
LYNN GUSSINGER: Well, I'd hate to have you move forward in the red, as Director Lubow
was saying, but I do welcome this conversation and I appreciate you bringing it to us now. I
think we absolutely have to engage it, and I'm glad Bill Van Meter is hearing all of this with T2
getting ready to launch, because I have hopes that that will help as well.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Well, our existing policy said that we change fares every three years. And you
know, people pull in a gas station and the gas gone up $0.20 cents a gallon-- they're not going to
like that, but that's a fact of life. That's what the market says that gasoline is going to cost. And
you know, we've had serious problems with retaining drivers and so forth, which means we
know we're going to have to continue to raise salaries and that type of thing.
I just don't see how we can eat 3% inflation every year into infinity, because what's going to
happen is what's happened with the state CDOT, with gas tax staying exactly where it was in
1982 or 1983. I don't remember the last of those. Things went up even a penny.
So if you put something off 20 years, you just dig yourself a bigger and bigger hole. And you
know, if we want to turn into the state of Illinois, we could turn into the state of Illinois, but we
have to be responsible and balance the budget, and we have to provide the resources we need to
run the organization. If that means a fare increase, that means a fare increase, because your only
other real alternative would be to drastically start reducing service all across the board, and
people aren't going to like that either.
To pay another $0.10, 0.15 cents-- they'd rather have that than have their service curtailed or
drastically reduced.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I would say go ahead and include a fare revenue increase. And the
reason is because with the two times nothing through this, along with fare increases for some

there have been fare reductions for others, like when we got rid of a zoning with two, three, four,
zones.
Some agencies out there are considering doing away with fares altogether. So let's say we scrap
10%, 15%. That's probably what we get for fare, right? 20%? OK. So we get rid of 20% of our
service, but it's free for everybody, and we find somebody else to pay for the stuff. What would
happen to our ridership then? I heard a-- what's the name of it?
Transit Unplugged. I listen to that podcast sometime. Some folks that we know were on that.
They're pushing for that. So anyway, yeah, sure, go ahead and take a look at 10% fare revenue
increase, because some folks will see a fare reduction, I'm sure. Why not look at a zero-- no fare
also? Because there's a cost to getting there-- the collecting and adding of money also. So there's
some things there.
And all of the arguments I've seen-- there's a bunch, now-- but most of them-- 99 out of 100 of
them-- come from that money. So get rid of that problem, save a whole lot of headache. I hope
that helps.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Stole my thunder there, Director Walker, because if we're talking about a
fiscal sustainability committee, then we need to get DRCOG. And the City and County of
Denver and all of the people that are involved in our transit system, and I'm inclined to agree. I
think it should be free, and I think that everybody should buy into our transit system, and then
this would be a moot point. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Just high school economics-- there is no such thing as free.
[LAUGHTER]
And in the absence of an alternative methodology Heather, you'd have to continue with the
prescribed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. And then, we will bring the fiscal policy back sooner than
October. So we'll plan on working with the Board office so you can be there as part of this, and
maybe part of a work session or something like that. So that we ca have more time.
KEN MIHALIK: Wonderful. More Time. We will move on to the-- that concludes the midterm
update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: We will move on to the pass program phasing considerations. Segue right into
that.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So hopefully everybody has a chance to look at this. We laid out
our discussion here about why we are looking at presenting this to you. So we have had a
discussion with stakeholders. We've been able to accommodate some of their requests.
One of the requests that we've looked at is this option of moving for Eco College and Eco Pass
the implementation period from a three year to five year, and that's for the current fare increase
that went into effect in January. Based on the modeling that our consultants did, we did find that
there were favorable impacts for quite a few people.
In particular, a group of employers associated with DIA that we had otherwise assumed would
drop out of the program because the costs went up so significantly. We were able to assume that
some of those people would stay in the program much longer and be attracted to the program,
which would offset some of the costs of moving the program out over a longer period of
implementation.
So we did give you the financial impact in here. We think between 2021 and 2023 there's
somewhere between a $3 and $5 million decrease. And the reason there's a range is because we
can't be that specific not knowing exactly everyone's behaviors. We have to make assumptions
about behaviors.
But we do see that that's absorbable, if you saw the numbers we were dealing with. So within
that framework, we can make that absorb that shortfall. The reason we're bringing it to you for an
information item now and then wanting your feedback to see if you want us to come back in June
with an action item is that it plays directly into the midterm financial plans.
So these are the years that we're talking about, and we'd really like to incorporate that now before
it becomes difficult or impossible to have that conversation later in the year. So with that, I guess
I'll have to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Chairman Williams, you're up.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm still beating this horse. It's not dead yet. So five years ago, this Board
would have never said that we were going to get a 70% discount. We are making that work. We
are moving toward looking at different ways of fare revenue. So I'm back to harping on the same
kind of thing, then.
This is great it’s going to work, I think that as we see cars moving off the road, people are going
to look back on to transit, and I think you'll be OK, so I'm about going on with the modeling that
you've got, because I think in the long term, I think we will see less people dropping out than we
anticipated. I mean, I think they were going to drop out soon, you know, because of the big
hoopla, but it's still where we're going in this world.
We're going to transit. So I think if you ride the way you're modeling it now that we'll probably
come out on the other end OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, Thank you. Director Menten, you're up.

NATALIE MENTEN: Simple questions. You want to know three years or five years, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We want-NATALIE MENTEN: Three years.
[LAUGHTER]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'll just add on that if we do an increase of three years, and make them
effective every five years-- this is a math problem for me. So I'd say three years. And a couple of
more people joined the queue. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll make it even quicker-- five years. I
think I was stalking horse to Director Guissinger in this issue, but anyway. I think that based
upon other information that hasn't been included here, but that is available to all directors and
can be discussed concerning how some of this balances out, at least for some customers, I think
it does make sense. And I would like us to consider that seriously.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I appreciate Heather bringing me into-- she sort of filled me in,
and she pointed out that the DIA is Auraria. And a lot of people other than Boulder but-- I'm sure
you all know that this does affect people in Boulder. The $3 to $5 million is based on keeping
everybody. And the modeling assumptions I don't have a problem with, but I think it's important
that they're clear it's based on keeping everybody in the pool.
And I don't think that that-- well, as Heather said, you know, if we're not moving this forward to
five years, then we're in danger of losing some of the DIA employers, we are clearly in danger of
losing neighborhoods. There's a lot of things that would balance out that $3 to $5 million. These
are really important partners.
And they're employer partners. They're university partners. They're neighborhoods. Those
neighborhoods-- all of those things, I think they bring in revenue and ridership that we would
clearly lose in big numbers if we didn't have these passes. And in fact, as I spent some time
looking at this, I think that encouraging passes is a way to our other problem, because they
always right price everything.
If you utilized if two years ago, that's the price of your contract now. No discounts. Am I right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's correct.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So it's just money in our pockets. And I think that even before the pass
program working group started, it was, what, $40 million that was added to the beginning of the
year? It's going to be a lot more now. And if we can get people all over this metro area, would
get-- I mean, Denver's looking at what they can do encourage transportation. Lone Tree is
looking at some things.
There are people all over the cities and other governments are looking at things like this. If we
can get eco passes in people's pockets, it puts people on buses. And if you looked at that 2017
bus performance report that Jeff Becker did, which I love, because I love graphs that I can look
at. You were talking about math. You could look at that and say, high ridership, low subsidy.
You know, what you're seeing there is the Skip, the Stampede, the Bound, the Jumps, the
Flatiron Flyer, the Hop-- those are -- I looked at the fare box for those today, and they are 48%
percent fare box, 35% fare box, 27% fare box. People, if they have that pass, they may be paying
the same amount but they get on the bus. And I think we need to do what we can to keep them -KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I didn't even use my microphone.
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: I think the partnership is the key, and when the task program working group
started, there was a lot of discussion and partnerships with many of these people. And I think that
when the numbers came out, there was a little bit of sticker shock for some of them. And I think
in exchange for the cooperation and the willingness to work together, I think stretching it out to
five years is a show of good faith, because they came to the table to negotiate-- recognizing that
it's going to cost more, but not realizing quite how much more. So I'm support of the five years.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Just adding my agreement, and seconding what Director Guissinger said,
because right now I'm seeing a lot of interest in ways to easily use the new train, which
everybody loves. And the idea of going to school on what Boulder has done to make their lines
work-- I think that's really smart and might lead to a better fiscal outcome, too. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. I would support the five year phase-in, and I'll take this opportunity to
correct myself. I think was '92 or '93 when the last increases were made at the gas tax. It was
probably the federal and the state. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I would favor the five year plan,
and I'll tell you why. In being a member of the working group, and looking at how much people
are paying between rent and transportation, it is high. It's 50% of their income. And I think that if
we can help them ease that pain, it will also provide behavioral changes. Once they get into this,
then it will just become the norm. So I want to vote for the five year.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Five years.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, are you still on the line with us? I guess not.
KATE WILLIAMS: Smart woman.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Anything else? Thank you. We will move on to-- again, this segues right into
the 2019 Fare Implementation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we can, just on the next three items, I'd be glad to just take
questions.
The only thing I wanted to mention real quick-- and thank you for the moment of silence earlier.
One of my employees, Brendan, who would normally be here to present the investment report,
his child was in the school this afternoon.
[GASPING]
SPEAKER 7: Oh, no.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: His child's OK, from what I hear. But he left very suddenly and he was
a little shook up. So I just want to make sure we keep him in our thoughts. Because he's not sure,
he's like, Heather, I don't know if I'm going to be at work tomorrow. So that's a lot to deal with,
having gone through that with Columbine, myself. It just never quite leaves you, even if you
have a child that's not injured or hurt.
So I just want you to keep him in those thoughts. He was not here to present that, but I can
answer any questions about how wonderfully we're doing with our investments. So any of the
three items I'll be glad to take questions on.
KEN MIHALIK: And that will include the fare implementation, correlated investment report,
and the March financial status. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Could you give me the ETA when we'll be completed with the APC
reporting-- the migration? Because right now the reason we're not getting the light rail--

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We're not getting the light rail information because we're
researching an issue that we have not identified yet, so I don't know. Doug, do you have a status
of when we think we might see that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Doug MacLeod, here. So we thought that we might be able to narrow down
the problem quicker than we've been able to, so we've actually enlisted the help of about five
folks from service planning, because while they'd be able to determine if there is a problem, or if
there is, where it resides, but we've eliminated some possibilities. We think we should have
something in the next couple of weeks.
Based on what we've seen, that remains to be seen, but all of the APC's are reporting fine, so just
as a reminder, when we got to January 1st, the light rail ridership had dropped about 12% on the
prior year. All the others had dropped just a little bit it, but it was not unexpected. A couple of
the lines have actually dropped 22%, and it just didn't look right.
So there's so many areas to look at. The light rail vehicles are a little more difficult, because we
have less APC coverage, and we have about 30% coverage of APCs on light rail vehicles. There
are eight doors on each car. Not all of the light rail vehicles have APCs, so we have to determine,
if they're not reporting, look if the data's transferring correctly, and whether it's some of the data
gets discarded for various reasons.
So there's a whole host of issues to look into, but we're pretty confident we'll have discovered
what the issue is by the time we report next month's numbers, and we're hoping within the next
couple of weeks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right. And then, when might we be able to expect our family of services
performance report, which I call the subsidy report?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. So there's several individuals that are more involved in developing
that part that comes from the cost model allocation to allocate cost down to the route. I just
talked to our budget department today to see how that was coming along, and they're waiting on
a few more pieces of information from maintenance to do those allocations.
I had talked to Jeff Becker who usually presents that. He's waiting on the information from us.
So it's possible we could get it next month to the Board, but for sure I would think by no later
than July.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Thank you. That's the only questions I have.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Anybody else on the next three topics? I don't see any.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I know Director Malpiede had a concern on the fare implementation. If
you would like to meet offline, too, we can have that conversation. Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just wanted to make sure we didn't bypass your concerns.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I do have eight pages of questions, but I'll do it offline.
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: That's kind of sobering, Angie.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. We will move on to other matters. Any other matters
for this committee? I don't see any. And we will meet again on July 11th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: June?
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: June 11th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We'll round up in July.
KEN MIHALIK: June 11th. And we are adjourned.
[GAVEL BANGS]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

