1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, February 9, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here (connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 818 3517 9175#
Webinar Passcode: 299917#

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Discussion Items

• Pre-Audit Communications to the Board
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 2, 2021
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
February 9, 2021

Pre-Audit Communications to the Board

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD is required by statute to have a financial statement audit performed by an independent audit firm
after the end of each fiscal year ending December 31 that results in an audit opinion being issued
regarding RTD’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR). In addition, the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) requires that entities expending $750,000 or more of federal assistance have a
Single Audit performed as well as certain test procedures performed to validate information that RTD
submits to the National Transit Database (NTD).
DISCUSSION
Plante Moran, LLC is the independent audit firm that RTD retained to perform these services. The
purpose of this Board Discussion item is to introduce the audit team and allow them to make certain
required communications to the RTD Board of Directors.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD - 2020 - TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter - UPDATED

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

Packet Pg. 4

February 9, 2021
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Board of Directors:
We are in the process of planning for the audit of the financial statements of The Regional Transportation
District (“RTD”) for the year ended December 31, 2020. An important aspect of planning for the audit is
communication with those who have responsibility for overseeing the strategic direction of the RTD and
obligations related to the accountability of the RTD. At RTD these responsibilities and obligations are held
by the Board of Directors, collectively and individually; therefore, it is important for us to communicate with
each of you in your role as a member of the Board of Directors.
As part of this communication process, we plan to speak with Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chairperson,
regarding our responsibilities under generally accepted auditing standards and the planned scope and
timing of our audit. The purpose of this letter is to provide each of you with a summary of those discussions
and to provide you with the opportunity to communicate with us on matters that may impact our audit.
Our Responsibility Under Generally Accepted Auditing Standards and Generally Accepted
Government Auditing Standards
As stated in the signed contract addressed to the RTD and signed October 5, 2020, our responsibility, as
described by professional standards, is to express an opinion about whether the financial statements
prepared by management with your oversight are fairly presented, in all material respects, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our audit of the financial statements does not relieve
you or management of your responsibilities.
In accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAO Standards), we are required
to communicate all noncompliance with provisions of laws, regulations, contracts or grants that have a
material effect on the financial statements that comes to our attention. GAO standards also require that we
report any instances of abuse identified during that audit that could be quantitatively or qualitatively material
to the financial statements.
We expect to include an emphasis-of-matter paragraph in the auditor’s report informing the users of the
financial statements about the adoption of GASB Statement No. 84. The proposed wording of the emphasisof-matter paragraph follows:
As described in Note X to the basic financial statements, in 2020, the District adopted the
provisions of Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 84,
Fiduciary Activities, which established accounting and financial reporting standards for
the identification and reporting of fiduciary activities. Our opinion is not modified with
respect to this matter.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD - 2020 - TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter - UPDATED (4473 : Pre-Audit Communications to the Board)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

2
February 9, 2021

Our audit fieldwork will include three phases. The planning and preliminary information-gathering phase will
occur during December and January; the risk assessment phase in February 2021; and the rest of our audit
procedures will be performed during March 2021.
The components of the group, which will be included in the group financial statements, include the Salaried
Defined Contribution and Defined Benefit Pension Plans, which are audited by RubinBrown LLP.
For components where we are assuming responsibility for the work of the component auditors, we intend
to use the work performed by them for the purpose of the audit of the Group financial statements, and
therefore, plan to be involved in their work.
Our involvement will be in the form of conference calls or personal meetings with the component auditors
and the component management, as well as through review of the component auditors’ audit
documentation. We will also require the component auditors to send us certain information with regards to
audit procedures performed at the component level as set out in our audit instructions to them.
To plan an effective audit, we must identify significant risks of misstatement in the financial statements and
design procedures to address those risks.
We identified the following significant risks of misstatement:


Proper recording of Fiduciary Activities upon adoption of GASB 84



Proper accounting treatment for debt refinanced by RTD during 2020



Proper accounting treatment for CARES Act funding received by RTD including accuracy and
completeness of the Schedule of Expenditures for Federal Awards (SEFA)



Proper controls in place to facilitate adequate control environment include proper segregation of
duties during the COVID-19 pandemic.

For components where we are assuming responsibility for the work of the component auditor, we will be
involved in the component auditor’s risk assessment to identify significant risks of material misstatement of
the Group financial statements by:


Discussing with the component auditor or component management the component’s business
activities that are significant to the Group,



Discussing with the component auditor the susceptibility of the component to material misstatement
of the financial information due to fraud or error, and



Reviewing the component auditor’s documentation of identified significant risks of material
misstatement of the Group financial statements.

In response to these identified significant risks, we will perform the following:


Confirm correct conclusions reached for all Fiduciary Activities of RTD, whether required to be
reported by GASB 84 or not, by reviewing supporting documentation for each activity



Obtain debt refinancing agreements in conjunction with reviewing the general ledger to ensure
refinanced debt was appropriately accounted for

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD - 2020 - TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter - UPDATED (4473 : Pre-Audit Communications to the Board)

Overview of the Planned Scope and Timing of the Audit

1.C.1.a

3
February 9, 2021



Assess whether the CARES Act funds were spent in accordance with the Act and that related
transactions are recorded correctly in the general ledger. We will also test and assess the
completeness of the SEFA in conjunction with the Single Audit of Federal Awards.



Confirm through observation and inspection that accounting procedures and controls were in place
and functioning as intended during any period in which employees may have been working from
home

For components where are assuming responsibility for the work of the component auditor, we will evaluate
the appropriateness of the further audit procedures to be performed to respond to the identified significant
risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements. We will also be involved in the component
auditor’s work to understand the nature, extent and timing of audit procedures performed, and the
component auditor’s conclusions.
We will gain an understanding of accounting processes and key internal controls through a review of the
accounting procedures questionnaires and control procedures questionnaires prepared by management.
We will confirm through observation and inspection procedures that accounting procedures and controls
included in the questionnaires have been implemented. In addition, we plan to perform testing of the
effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. We will not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting; however we will communicate to you significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses identified in connection with our audit, if any.
The concept of materiality is inherent in our work. We place greater emphasis on those items that have, on
a relative basis, more importance to the financial statements and greater possibilities of material error than
with those items of lesser importance or those in which the possibility of material error is remote.
Information from You Relevant to Our Audit
An important aspect of this communication process is the opportunity for us to obtain from you information
that is relevant to our audit. Your views about any of the following are relevant to our audit:


RTD’s objectives and strategies, and the related business risks that may result in material
misstatements



Matters you consider warrant particular attention during the audit, and any areas where you want
to request additional procedures be undertaken



Concerns about RTD’s internal control and its importance to the RTD, including how the Board of
Directors oversees the effectiveness of internal control and the detection or possibility of fraud



Significant communications with regulators



The actions of the Board of Directors in response to developments in accounting standards,
regulations, laws, previous communications from us, and other related matters

If you have any information to communicate to us regarding the above or any other matters you believe are
relevant to the audit, or if you would like to discuss the audit in more detail, please call me at 810.766.6022
or Sean Hickey at 847.628.8930 as soon as possible.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD - 2020 - TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter - UPDATED (4473 : Pre-Audit Communications to the Board)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

1.C.1.a

4
February 9, 2021

Thank you for your time and consideration in this important aspect of the audit process. You can expect to
hear from us again after the completion of our audit when we will report to you the significant findings from
the audit.
Very truly yours,
Plante & Moran, PLLC

Pamela L. Hill, CPA
Partner

Sean Hickey, CPA
Senior Manager

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD - 2020 - TCWG - Planned Scope and Timing Letter - UPDATED (4473 : Pre-Audit Communications to the Board)

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

