2021- 02-09
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
NICOLE CAREY: I think we're good to go.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. The Financial Administration and Audit Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 7:48 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit RTD-denver.com and scroll to
the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's committee meeting, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on
you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the
proceedings. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that
they would like to speak by pressing *9. To toggle your Mute setting on the phone, please press *6.
Note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested in
speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the formal monthly Board meetings. And for
future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal located at RTD.iqm2.com.
We have no recommended actions on the agenda this evening, so we will proceed to our one discussion
item on tonight's agenda, which is Pre-Audit Communications to the Board. This item begins on Board
Packet page 67. And at this time, I'd like to turn the floor over to our acting CFO and Controller, Doug
MacLeod. Doug, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. Joining me tonight
is Pam Hill.
Pam is a partner with Plante Moran, our external auditors. And she is a partner in the Plant Moran Public
Transit Audit Division. Also joining me tonight is Byron Aten, RTD's Senior Manager of Accounting. And I'd
like to just recognize Byron and his team for all the hard work they've done to this point closing out our fiscal
year, which ends December 2020, as well as for the preliminary audit, as well as going forward, the
additional work that will be done as the audit fieldwork begins in early March.
So each year, RTD is required to perform a financial statement audit using an external independent auditor,
which culminates in the audit firm issuing an audit opinion which discusses their findings, if any, regarding
the fairness of the presentation of the financial statements. Those audited financial statements are also
referred to as the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report or CAFR. In addition to their financial statement
audit, they also perform a single audit. The single audit is required by the FTA, and it's in the audit of the
federal funding that we have drawn as a company, RTD.
Finally, the audit firm also performs certain procedures to check and review the data that we will be
submitting to the National Transit Database for 2020. That data is very critical to RTD receiving funding. In

fact, it was used for the apportionment for both the CARES and the CRRSAA funding. So that is another
important aspect of these services that Plante Moran will be providing to us.
I would just like to emphasize that this audit work that's being done by Plante Moran is completely separate
from our internal audit function, which also reports to the Board. But the audit opinion that Plante Moran will
be issuing will be issued to the Board of Directors. And as we enter into the period that we will be performing
fieldwork with Plante Moran in early March, there are certain introductory comments and communications
that Plante Moran needs to make to the governing body of RTD, which is the Board of Directors, and that
is why Mrs. Hill has joined us tonight. So with that, I would like to turn it over to Pam Hill. Pam?
PAM HILL: Thank you so much, Doug. And thank you everyone for the opportunity to speak with you tonight.
Just a quick introduction of myself, again, Pam Hill. Been with Plante Moran for over 22 years.
And I head up our national governmental transportation practice. And so deal with a lot of different transit
entities across the country. And really excited for the opportunity to work with RTD.
So I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I know you've already had quite a lengthy evening. So you do
have the letter in your packet directed or addressed to the Board of Directors. So I want to just briefly touch
on some highlights in that letter and just give you an update on the audit process.
So we are in the process of working with your team for the 2020 audit, as Doug stated. We've been planning
for actually quite a few months now, but we will begin our actual final audit testing in a few weeks. So this
letter that you have with you today is a required periodic communication.
The auditing standards require us to have various discussions with the Board regarding what the audit is
and what our plan for the audit is. And so the majority of this language in the letter is pretty standard. It talks
a little bit about our plan for the audit, talks a little bit about the plan, that we use a risk-based approach to
our audit, also talks about the concept of materiality in our testing in that it's virtually impossible for us to
test every single transaction. And I think Doug and his team probably wouldn't want that either, but it
probably would take us a whole year to do that. So we do use materiality within our testing procedures.
It also talks a little bit about the fact that the District will be implementing a new accounting standard this
year, GASB Statement No. 84. And that will require some new reporting within the District's financial
statements. As a result of that new standard-- that new standard really focuses on fiduciary activities and
really is going to affect the way your pension systems are disclosed within the District's financial statements,
particularly the Salaried Defined Contribution and Defined Benefit Plans.
Those plans are audited by another firm, or at least the Defined Benefit Plan is. And that will require us to
follow the group audit standards. And so as a result, we will have some additional communications with the
auditor of the plans, but very, very common in the industry and something we're very familiar with moving
forward through that process.
We are also required to brainstorm around various areas of the financial statements of the District that may
be a little riskier to audit. Those typically relate to more complex accounting issues or things that are maybe
just a little bit different than last year. So when we do our risk assessments and identify those areas, the
audit standards do require us to report those to the Board. So you may have noted that we did list those in
the letter.
This does not mean that there are any issues with that area. It just means that we will be performing
additional procedures around those areas in addition to our standard audit procedures. So they will just get
a little bit more attention in the first year-- or not in the first year, in this year. In every year from here on out,
we will continue to brainstorm and identify various areas.

Lastly, definitely just feel free to reach out if you have any questions for us now or anytime in the future. It
doesn't need to be just audit time. If there is any questions, my contact information-- I believe my phone
number is at the end of the letter, and my email address, Doug and team have. We also will be reaching
out through the District's team to the Chair of the Board and then also the Chair of the Finance Audit and
Admin Committee just to set up a time to just briefly, very briefly, discuss the pre-audit communication and
give you a chance one-on-one in a more personal setting to discuss maybe any concerns or questions that
you might have.
So that's really the gist of the letter. Not sure if there's any questions. Madam Chair, I'd be happy to take
those through you. And I guess I'll open it up to that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Miss Hill. I would like to see if Directors have any questions. I do see Director
Rosenthal in the queue. Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. Just quick question. Miss Hill, do you believe that you
have enough staff to actually help you with some of the audit requirements? Because there's various audits
that take place, large, medium, small audits and such. So just wanted to know about your staffing in your
department.
PAM HILL: Yeah. Thank you for that question. So we have over 200 staff in the firm that focus just on our
governmental audits. And we actually have a dedicated national transit team.
And so the individuals that we have staffed on the audit all have transit experience with auditing other transit
agencies on top of auditing other governmental entities. And yes, as soon as we were awarded the work,
actually, we began working on putting together the team. So we do not see any issues at all with being able
to meet the District's deadlines and being able to perform the work.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal? OK. I would be remiss if I didn't
acknowledge-- or congratulate you and your team from Plante Moran on being selected for this audit. So
welcome aboard. We look forward to working with you.
PAM HILL: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I may, I'd like to direct a question to the auditor,
Ms. Pam Hill, regarding her letter, and specifically page 71. In the middle of page 71, you state, "We
identified the following significant risks of misstatement," and then you have four bullet points.
I take it-- and I just want to say this for the sake of the record. I take it that's really more of a generic
statement of concern versus a specific concern. In other words, due to the complexities of the statutes
involved and so forth, there is a significant risk of misstatement. It's not that you have identified at RTD any
items that caused you particular concern as to those. Am I correct?
PAM HILL: Yes, you are correct. So as I stated, that's exactly right. So we are required to brainstorm around
potential misstatements or areas that could be a little more risky than others. And then we would design
additional procedures above and beyond what we would normally do to ensure that everything is set here.
And this would be very standard within any type of audit, that we would be required, whether it's
governmental or not, to really think about potential areas for risk. Definitely, we're not saying that we've
identified an issue at this point. We're just saying that we are going to put additional focus in our testing
around these areas.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
PAM HILL: You're welcome.

PEGGY CATLIN: Do any other Directors have any comments? Mr. MacLeod, did you want to have Byron
Aten make any comments?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you. I think he's got a lot on his plate. And I just wanted to introduce him to
the Board. So thank you for that opportunity, but I think we'll have him join us with our private conversations
with you, Madam Chair, as well as the Chair of the Board. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. I know Miss Hill offered her availability should any of you all have questions. It
would be nice, if you do reach out to her, that you would also copy the Board officer or me just so that we
make sure that we can address some of the issues. I just would appreciate that personally.
Seeing no other hands raised in the queue, are there any other matters to discuss this evening? Seeing
none, the next meeting date will be on March 2, 2021. And seeing no other discussion, this meeting is
adjourned at 8:03.
I think that's a record for one of the shortest committee meetings. So we are adjourned. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good job.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAM HILL: Night. Thank you.

