1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 23, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:03 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone,
2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler,
Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Secretary Walker (via phone)

Others present:

General Manager Genova,
Executive Manager Barbara
McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

II.

Attendee Name
Larry Hoy
Tina Francone

Title
Chair
First Vice Chair

Status
Present
Present

Barbara Deadwyler
Jeff Walker
Natalie Menten

Second Vice Chair
Secretary
Treasurer

Present
Remote
Present

Arrived

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy opened the meeting by sharing his condolences on the passing of
Director Walker’s mother.
Chair Hoy reviewed the draft Board Meeting agenda for February 28, 2017, and
noted the length of service of the retirees. Barbara McManus said two retirees had
confirmed they would attend.

Director Francone commented that the C-470 Corridor Coalition cited in the draft
agenda has changed to a quarterly meeting schedule. She said the work of the
committee is largely complete, since the design work and fundraising efforts have
been completed and construction is underway.
Barbara McManus stated that she receives and reviews copies of C-470 Corridor
Coalition agendas and that she would reach out to the appropriate Directors if RTD
involvement were required.
Chair Hoy said the Board would handle the C-470 Corridor Coalition in the same
way it treats the Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority Board. He said that
Barbara McManus would alert the affected Directors if a given agenda warrants
their attention. He said that, despite his involvement with Adams County Economic
Development (ACED), he does not regularly attend meetings, since the
organization’s own transportation committee has little to do with RTD business.
Director Menten mentioned her involvement with the Jefferson County
Transportation Action and Advisory Group (JEFFTAAG). She said that one out of
every three meetings was canceled and, for many other meetings, her attendance
was not worthwhile.
Chair Hoy said that all of the Directors have both committee assignments and
personal commitments and responsibilities. He said he saw no issue with Directors
not attending meetings of outside organizations if doing so would be a waste of
resources.
Director Menten mentioned the local government meetings held at RTD and noted
that the meetings are attended by planners and other local government employees.
She asked whether elected officials are invited to those meetings.
Chair Hoy said the local government meetings are mostly for municipal staff
updates and outreach.
General Manager Genova said that Chair Hoy’s description is an accurate
representation and that he would provide the meeting invite list to Director Menten.
Chair Hoy said that the elected officials are invited but those officials send their
staff. He said he received invites from city managers to certain events but
questioned whether some of those invitations should be extended to RTD staff
instead.

Director Francone asked why the General Manager’s Oversight and Performance
Management Committee (GMO Committee) was listed two places in the draft
agenda.
Barbara McManus said that committee reports, including the reports of the GMO
Committee, are located in one place on the agenda and the minutes are approved at
a separate juncture.
Director Francone mentioned the GMO Committee would not convene again until
April or May.
Barbara McManus said the said General Manager’s strategic update takes place in
April, which then triggers the GMO Committee to reconvene.
Director Deadwyler said that the General Manager’s strategic goals come out of the
March retreat, which Barbara McManus confirmed.
Chair Hoy, speaking about the unanimous consent items on the agenda, said he
was surprised to see the lease termination at Fiddler’s Green on the agenda
because he thought the lease had been terminated years earlier.
General Manager Genova said that the current lease termination should go through
in this instance because RTD has been given written guarantees.
Director Francone asked whether the lease would still be in place if it is not
terminated.
General Manager Genova said that the lease would remain but noted the Fiddler’s
Green Business Improvement District is motivated to get out of the lease.
Director Francone asked whether RTD is satisfied with the amount of the lease
termination payment and whether the proceeds would go in the base account.
GM Genova said that the amount was reasonable and that the money would go into
the base.
Chair Hoy discussed the recommended action item concerning paver maintenance
on the 16th Street Mall and asked who had voted no in committee.
Director Menten said she voted no and may have been the only one.

General Manager Genova confirmed that the vote was 11 in favor and 1 opposed.
Director Menten said she would not approve any more money for the repair of the
existing granite.
Chair Hoy said RTD is obliged to maintain the pavers because to do otherwise could
cause damage to the RTD shuttles. He said that the problems with the pavers may
be resolved soon.
General Manager Genova said the discussion would be a long process.
Motion:

Director Francone made the motion to approve
the February 28, 2017 Board agenda.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy,
Francone, Deadwyler, Menten) and 0 opposed.
Director Walker was not present on the phone
for the vote.

III.

Other Matters
Director Francone asked about the status of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Study.
Chair Hoy said the Mobility Choice agenda item is off the table for discussion and
that the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional
Council of Governments would continue with or without RTD’s involvement. He
said Mobility Choice would likely be presented to the Board in the future but said
that the date has not been set.
Director Deadwyler said that Roger Sherman from CRL Associates stated a Mobility
Choice recommendation would be presented to the board in the near future.
Director Francone asked for RTD staff’s opinion on Mobility Choice.
General Manager Genova said he felt that RTD’s participation in the study would be
a good thing. He said that, following the board meeting at which the
recommendation was voted down, the Mobility Choice board stated their desire for
RTD to be a part of the study, specifically because they saw the value in RTD’s
participation and its credibility in informing the process. He said the Mobility Choice

board said they would work to change certain elements of the agreement and bring
it back before the board. He said that the Mobility Choice board’s revised proposal
would lower the amount required for the study from $500,000 to $400,000, revise
the makeup of the Mobility Choice board, and restructure the oversight over the
process. He stated the committee charged with oversight over the process would
consist of one representative each from Mobility Choice, DRCOG, CDOT, and RTD
and that this group would guide the day-to-day work of the study and the scope of
work that would go into a request for proposals (RFP).
General Manager Genova said he that sits as RTD’s member on the Mobility Choice
board. He stated that Bill Van Meter would be a good choice for the oversight
committee. He said that the private sector is represented on the Mobility Choice
board and that private sector funding could increase as more private entities
became more involved in the process. He said private sector contributions would go
toward both administrative costs and salaries of administrative staff.
Chair Hoy clarified that any monies contributed by government agencies could only
go toward the study rather than to salaries and that any other dollars spent would
come out of private coffers.
Director Francone said that her continuing objection was that she felt as though the
Board had been left out of the process. She said that, because of the possibility of
a ballot initiative arising out of the process, she wanted RTD to be a part of that
conversation. She said she was hesitant to go forward without more transparency
and Board involvement.
Director Deadwyler agreed with Director Francone and said she recalled that CDOT
also disapproved of the study at the time the RTD Board voted down the Mobility
Choice recommendation.
General Manager Genova said that CDOT was on board with the study and was the
first public agency to agree to fund the study. He said that DRCOG discussed the
proposal with its own board and that they were a provisional yes vote as long as
CDOT and RTD agreed to participate.
Director Deadwyler said that at one time CDOT wanted to be part of a ballot
initiative in which RTD’s share of additional revenues would have been minimal.
She asked whether the result of the Mobility Choice study would result in a ballot
initiative with the same small share for RTD.

General Manager Genova said that any talk of a ballot initiative would be premature
and that any prior discussion of ballot initiatives took place before the bipartisan
conversation about transit funding took place in the legislature this session. He said
that both the Metro Mayors Caucus and MPACT64 have issued statements that lay
out the parameters under which they would support a ballot initiative.
Director Deadwyler said that the last time a ballot initiative was discussed the
proponents wanted to use the majority of the money to fix roads and bridges.
General Manager Genova said that the majority of any money from a ballot initiative
would go toward CDOT. He said that the Metro Mayors Caucus would not support
any initiative if the money going to local jurisdictions drops below a certain amount.
He said that people may not support an initiative in which large sums of money go
to RTD because RTD already reaps the revenues generated by the 1% sales and
use tax. He said that Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs has been having
discussions to see which aspects of a ballot initiative people could support. He
reiterated that any discussion of a ballot initiative coming out of the Mobility Choice
study is premature and that such a ballot initiative should not be considered a
foregone conclusion of the study.
Director Francone said that any additional transportation funding would go toward
roads and bridges rather than public transportation. She said that the legislature
may pass transportation legislation but RTD would not receive any more funding
than it does currently.
Director Menten said DRCOG already does a transit study, though they were not
willing to share the results with her upon her request. She questioned why DRCOG
would want to keep that information out of the public eye.
Chair Hoy said that the results of the Mobility Choice study would not belong to
DRCOG and that the oversight committee would make sure the information is
published.
Director Deadwyler offered strong support for supplying free ride coupons for the
Juneteenth and Curtis Park community events. She said that the Curtis Park event
had been shut down by Denver Police Department Chief White and that, following a
change of heart by Mayor Hancock, the event was reopened. She said that she
wanted RTD to participate in the event to make a strong push for the recruitment
of drivers. She said that RTD had previously supplied one of the organizers of the
two events with 200 free ride coupons and had raffled off gift bags containing an
additional 180 coupons. She said that she does not want to discontinue tickets

because the publicity is good for RTD and that these events are a way to keep the
public involved.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Deadwyler was seeking 380 tickets at a time when
the Directors each get 180 per year.
General Manager Genova said that Chair Hoy’s interpretation of the free ride
coupon policy was correct, though he said he wanted to re-read policy. He said
that, in the past, RTD received requests for fundraising efforts and would donate
monthly passes.
Director Deadwyler said she would hate to take away something RTD been doing
for some time.
Chair Hoy said he empathized with Director Deadwyler’s concerns but did not think
her request fell within the existing policy. He said that others would ask for
exemptions as well.
Director Deadwyler said that handing out free ride coupons individually does not
always work but said that the Curtis Park and Juneteenth events are different.
Chair Hoy asked why a single event organizer had been given 200 tickets.
Director Deadwyler said the woman had been an RTD partner for years and that she
gave tickets to students, the elderly, and visitors to her community farm.
Director Menten voiced her support for the policy of giving only 180 coupons to
Directors.
Chair Hoy noted that the free ride coupons were reduced or eliminated agency
wide.
Director Francone asked whether another item could be substituted for the free ride
coupons.
Chair Hoy said there is no process in place to cover Director Deadwyler’s coupon
request and stated that the 380 coupons she requested is more than any Director
would receive during the year. He also noted that Directors would be taxed on any
coupons purchased over the 180 coupon limit and said this was an IRS issue rather
than an RTD policy.

Director Deadwyler said she did not understand why the free ride coupons would
be taxed and asked whether RTD would send an IRS 1099 form at the end of the
year to individuals who received free coupons. She also said that recently she
attempted to secure free ride passes for some of her constituents impacted by an
RTD service issue and that those constituents had to provide their personal
information before receiving the tickets.
Barbara McManus said that was not what had happened. She explained that
Customer Care uses information supplied by riders to correct service issues. She
encouraged Directors to have affected riders call either Customer Care or the Board
Office to report service issues and said that Customer Care could supply free ride
coupons as nominal compensation. She apologized for the confusion and said that
the tickets issued to those constituents did not come out of her annual pool of 180
coupons but rather from Customer Care’s coupon supply.
Chair Hoy noted that RTD employees who in years past were given hundreds of
coupons to compensate inconvenienced riders were now given none because they
now follow the same protocol with Customer Care.
Director Menten said she received a request for free ride coupons from Bicycle
Colorado and questioned whether other organizations had previously received
tickets from RTD through other mean.
Chair Hoy said the free ride coupon audit was one of the few audits in which a
significant problem was identified. He said the next audit would be cleaner because
records are now being kept on free ride coupon issuance and a system is now in
place.
Director Deadwyler said she agreed with the policy limiting Director coupons to 15
per month. She said when she was first elected she wanted to put a stop to the
free ride coupons because of the amount of lost revenue but changed her mind
when she saw how much her constituents appreciated the coupons. She said she
had not contemplated special events such as the two she supported when she
agreed to the 180-coupon limit.
Chair Hoy said he used to give coupons to certain groups in the past but has had to
tell them they will not receive them going forward.
Director Deadwyler asked whether Customer Care could decide whether to supply
the 380 coupons for the events she would be sponsoring.

Chair Hoy said that Customer Care supplies customer service only and the entire
RTD organization is out of the business of handing out free ride coupons. He said
he was ambivalent over the new policy because coupons have promotional value.
He said it the policy came about because it was time to control the problem.
Director Francone spoke about the upcoming strategic planning meeting. She said
she likes having staff participation in the event but stated that, during the goalsetting exercise, she cannot visually differentiate between Director priorities and
staff priorities, which are represented by dots. She said staff’s participation is
invaluable, but the Board sets policy.
Barbara McManus said that, for the upcoming retreat, the color of the dots would
be different for Directors and staff.
Director Deadwyler said that, during the round-robin exercise, the priorities seem to
have been already decided by staff and that Board suggestions are not thoroughly
considered.
Director Menten agreed that staff priorities should be indicated by dots of a
different color.
General Manager Genova asked what would happen in the case where an item
received nine staff dots and one board dot or, conversely, where another item
received nine board dots and one staff dot. He asked how each of those scenarios
would be treated.
Chair Hoy said that he would like to see the Board and the staff work
collaboratively and said that using differently colored dots would not be a
collaborative approach. He said he felt that using dots of different colors would
make it harder to work as a team.
Director Deadwyler said that using differently colored dots would allow both the
Directors and staff to know what the other group thinks.
Director Francone said that seeing whether a large division existed between staffsupported and Board-supported recommendations would be helpful.
Director Deadwyler said that staff has the opportunity to jointly discuss priorities
prior to the retreat but the Board does not have that same opportunity.

Director Menten stated that the Board and staff dots should have an equal point
value.
Director Walker said that the Board gets to see staff priorities through the budget
process. He said he saw no issue with staff meeting beforehand without influence
of the board, because the Board can always vote to change staff recommendations.
He said the Board sets agency policy and that staff tells the Board how they
propose to carry out that policy.
Chair Hoy agreed with Director Walker and stated that he does not see the benefit
in using differently colored dots.
Director Francone said questioned whether a Board policy influenced by staff input
is really a board decision.
Chair Hoy said that staff is involved because they are experts in their field.
Director Francone said that she would leave the dot decision to the facilitator
because the running of the retreat is up to him.
Chair Hoy said he would speak to the facilitator to see if had used differently
colored dots before.
Director Walker said that the Board could not do its work without staff, because
each Director would have to learn state and federal regulations, architectural
requirements, etc. He said the Board requires the technical expertise of the staff in
the same way they rely on constituent input. He said the process must be
collaborative and that the Board and the staff should all be working together.
Director Menten spoke about the Citizens Advocacy Committee (CAC) and asked
what value they bring to the agency. She said she would be willing to do away
with the group if they did not make contributions.
Chair Hoy said that there are ongoing discussions about the worth of the CAC. He
said that RTD pays for consultants to facilitate the group and that the Board
recently voted to expand the scope of the group to include areas other than
FasTracks. He said there is a reason the CAC exists.
General Manager Genova said the FasTracks Act required RTD to have an advisory
committee and said he would check with General Counsel Rolf Asphaug to see
whether that requirement still applies.

Chair Hoy said that the CAC does not have much to report lately and that their
reporting schedule would soon be changed from a monthly to a quarterly basis.
Director Menten said that town halls are part of RTD’s outreach efforts. She said
she was not sure how much money is spent on telephone town halls and would
rather go out in the community personally if the outreach budget would support
that.
Barbara McManus said that she was not sure whether the relevant budget line
regarding community outreach went toward the CRL Associates contract.
General Manager Genova said that he would check with Scott Reed, Assistant
General Manager of Marketing and Communications.
Chair Director Menten said that Larry Matthews from the Wheat Ridge City Council
asked to see a critical path schedule, which would be supplied by Denver Transit
Partners (DTP), for the opening of the G Line. She said that Wheat Ridge passed a
tax issue in the previous election to allow for development around Ward Station and
that the city council feels they have made a mistake with the voters due to the
delay in the opening of the G Line. She said that, in the RTD local government
meeting at which Larry Matthews asked for a set opening date, Director Francone
had said the date could not be disclosed.
General Manager Genova said there had been a misunderstanding in that
conversation. He said the question was not whether the date could not be disclosed
but rather that whether the date could be set with certainty.
Director Francone said that Larry Matthews is seeking an estimated start date.
General Manager Genova said that it is still unclear when RTD can resume testing
and that DTP has not supplied a viable schedule that would determine the opening
date. He said that RTD is required to supply the schedule to the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) because of the full funding agreement.
Director Walker said CAC was intended as a citizen’s council and that the question
of what their role should be still exists.
General Manager Genova informed the committee that a memorial plaque would be
erected for former RTD General Manager Cal Marsella in Union Station.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:33 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

