Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chairman – Christopher Martinez, District B
First Vice Chairman – Bill Christopher, District J
Second Vice Chairman – O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Secretary – Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Treasurer – Lee Kemp, District I
Noel Busck, District K
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A
Daryl Kinton, District H

Bill McMullen, District E
Wally Pulliam, District L
Dave Ruchman, District M
John Tayer, District O
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Jose Angulo, Custodian Shelter Cleaner, 27 Years of Service
Dennis Baker, Parts Clerk, 28 Years of Service

Board Resolution of Appreciation to RTD

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Yamrick
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Christopher
Contracted Operational Services Committee-Co-Chaired by Director Kinton/Ruchman
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee – Chaired by Director McMullen
Financial Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Kemp
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
West Corridor Committee-Chaired by Director Ruchman
DUS Committee-Chaired by Director Elfenbein
Chairman’s Report

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF DECEMBER 12, 2006

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A. Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure located on the wall
at the entryway to the RTD Administration office located at 1600 Blake St as the location
for posting of public notices including Board and Committee meetings for 2007.
B. Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract with the Seniors’
Resource Center for the Provision of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” contracted demand response
transit services. This contract is for one year for an amount not to exceed $498,144 with
four (4) one-year options in the amounts of $517,684 (option year 1), $539,653 (option
year 2) $562,593 (option year 3) and $586,504 (option year 4), for a total five year
amount not to exceed $2,704,578. These costs are based on an hourly rate and include
estimated fuel costs which will be treated as a “pass-through.” This proposal represents
the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 16D0046, to provide “Evergreen” Public Transportation Services. The contract to
provide this service is scheduled to begin March 11, 2007.
C. Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter
into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide
RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an amount not
to exceed $500,000.
D. Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter
into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in
the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $350,000.

E. Cost Sharing Agreements-FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter
into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource Center
to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized)
services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are
for calendar year 2007 and for amounts not to exceed $323,420 for Boulder County,
$87,035 for Adams County and $89,116 for Jefferson County.
F. Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the
City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential
areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,207,418. It is also recommended that the Board authorize the General Manager or his
designee to enter into an Agreement with Special Transit, to provide local match funding
for the acquisition of replacement HOP vehicles in an amount not to exceed $915,000 and
to transfer up to $300,000 from the HOP capital vehicle replacement account to the
expense budget.
G. Extraordinary Snow Event Funding
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a transfer of $850,000 from the bus operations diesel fuel account to fund the
contracted snow removal services in 2007. In addition, it is recommended that the Board
of Directors increase the snow removal services’ contracts for a total amount not to exceed
$850,000.
H. 2007 Funding for Off-Duty Denver Police
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
execution of a 2007 purchase order for the Denver Police Secondary Employment for
$389,160.00. Funds for the 2007 purchase order are in the 2007 adopted budget.
I.

.

Recommended Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a modification to the District’s Investment Policy such that the Policy would
include, as Eligible Investments, all investments permitted by Colorado Revised Statutes for
public moneys (CRS 24-75-601.1).

J. Adoption of 2007 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administrative Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the accompanying performance measures, goals and objectives to be included in the
2007 Performance Report.
IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K. Board Resolution 2 Series of 2007-Commitment to RTD Riders

L. Recommendation for Contract Award to Marsh USA for Insurance Brokerage and
Administrative Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to award to Marsh, USA a 5 year contract with a 5 year
option (to extend) to provide Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage and
Administrative Services on a Rolling Owner Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP).
Funds for the award contained within the FasTracks budget.
M. May 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors approve
moving the proposed May 6, 2007 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review
and comment.
N. Routes 6X, T and W
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors decide
whether to reinstitute service (at a reduced level) on former Routes 6X, T and W, or any
combination thereof.
O. Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for Design Engineering and
Property Acquisition for Union Pacific Facilities
It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter
into a contract with the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) for 50% design and engineering on
relocation of UP trackage and yards and for UP property acquisition for its relocation, in an
amount not to exceed $40 million. Funding is included in the FasTracks Program and 2007
FasTracks Budget.
X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Contract Negotiations – Railroads C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)

XIII.

ADJOURN

