Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 23, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
January 23, 2007 at 5:35 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher called for a moment of silence for the passing of the General
Manager’s father.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
14 members present. 1 absent (Chairperson Martinez)

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Jose Angulo, Custodian Shelter Cleaner, 27 years of Service
Dennis Baker, Parts Clerk, 28 years of Service
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher thanked the retirees for their many years of dedication and
service to RTD. None of the retirees were present to receive their award.
Board Resolution of Appreciation to RTD
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher presented the Board Resolution of Appreciation to the
represented union for their hard work and dedication to service during the two blizzards in
December 2006. Holman Carter, newly elected ATU president, and Dan Sundquist, ATU,
accepted the award on behalf of the unionized employees.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher presented a second award of the Board Appreciation to the
RTD staff and management employees. Cal Marsella accepted the award on behalf of the
staff.
A recommendation was made by Director Pulliam and so noted by the Board office that similar
framed resolutions need to be given to the Contracted Services groups as part of this
appreciation effort.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear reiterated his open issue with Route 52 and indicated he is still awaiting a
response from RTD. Senior and handicapped citizens have to walk 10 or more blocks to get to
where they need to go so he is requesting a reinstatement of route 52. Additionally, Russell
expressed continued concern on the shoveling of sidewalks and shelters that are part of RTD
jurisdiction.
Richard Castro, Parker, CO, requested a reinstatement of the P bus. He expressed thanks for
the handshake agreement and shared his anticipation that the P bus would be reinstated as
soon as possible.
Robert Mutaw, Louisville, CO, expressed concern on the T route, stating that for the riders the

old route posed an economical and efficient option; however, under the new change, the
current routing does not accommodate the needs of the riders. He would like to see the T bus
reinstated.
David Benson, Willis of Colorado, again requested a re-evaluation of the Rolling Owner
Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP) based on these factors: Conflict of interest with the
current evaluators, pricing, MBE participation, risk mitigation and cost containment, and
concern on timing.
David Rothenberger inquired about the Value Engineering work going on with the West
Corridor. He understands there are funding issues but feels the newest proposals have major
changes which are coming late in the process after the EIS work has long been completed and
promises are being scaled back due to costs and cost containment.
Ted Webster, Parker, CO, personally thanked Director Quinlan for his intervention in the P
route issue and also shared his satisfaction with the RTD bus operators. He reiterated the
need for the reinstatement of the P bus and look forward to this happening prior to the May
run.
Klasina Vanderwerk representing Cherry Hills Village City Council, thanked the RTD staff who
participated in a meeting with the City Council in December. She expressed that the route 46
was one of the least utilized and requested follow-up from the staff on the evaluation that they
are doing on ridership for the route 46.
Joseph Gergeley, Adams Mark Hotel, provided a petition with approximately 30 names to Cal
Marsella on the issue of a late night bus for route 16. He expressed his appreciation for the
progress being made to provide an option as part of the proposed May changes.
Director Chacon stated to Mr. Gergeley that Director Brohl was the advocate to get this action
passed.
David Ross expressed continued concerns on the University Station rezoning project. He
indicated his research provided some disturbing things about RTD’s possible involvement and
suspects that RTD may be in choux with Mile Hi, the developer. He cited such concerns as
impact on parking, possible 2 year construction project, and zoning issues.
Director Brohl indicated she is getting several questions and would like for Cal Marsella to have
someone write something up so she can be briefed on the issues and the RTD involvement as
she meets with the community. Cal Marsella indicated RTD has no investment in the
development and that this is privately funded. However, he reminded the Board of their
approval for the TOD policy.
Holman Carter, ATU President, expressed appreciation to the Board for the Resolution of
Appreciation. He shared an ATU newsletter with the Board as a forum for open
communications. He also stated that he concurs with the concerns over a stress-free ride as
his research suggests there is a relationship between increased levels of stress and the number
of transfers that a rider needs to make.
Pamela Dunn, Parker, CO, expressed appreciation for bringing the P bus back but also
suggested RTD consider changing it from a regional to an express route.
Dan Sundquist, ATU, indicated he has been working with our contracted services group (i.e.
First Transit) and is challenged about things we can do to make these employees feel part of
the RTD team. He suggested such things as getting them access to the Monthly Q or a
modification thereof. The goal is to make this a seamless work environment for RTD
employees and the contracted services.

Peter French, SVP for HRH, expressed his concern over the recommended action to award
Marsh with the ROCIP contract. He stated that nothing has been resolved in spite of the HRH
bid $2M less than the Marsh’s bid. He felt the HRH bid price had been confirmed and he was
willing to provide more information on his price with the Board if desired.
Howard Alton, ATU, indicated as a driver for 15 years, RTD has a big issue of retention of
drivers. He wants to know what is RTD doing to focus on this retention issue and the
associated heavy-handedness which affects morale and make people feel more like machines
than humans.
Rebecca Swinehart, P bus rider, advocated to bring the P bus back sooner than May and
provided two reasons to do so: Environmental impact and inconsistent fare collection on trains
compared to a more consistent fare collection on buses.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Planning & Development Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held 1/8/07.
If further information is needed on the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to
the Committee minutes.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher reported on the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting
held on 1/8/07. In 2007 the FasTracks Monitoring Committee updates will be provided to the
Board as a whole as an ongoing agenda item for the Board Study Sessions.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
on 1/4/07. If further information is needed on the Contracted Operational Services
Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director McMullen reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held January 16, 2007. If further information is needed on the Operations/Customer
Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp reported on the Financial Administration meeting held January 16, 2007. If
further information is needed on the Financial Administration Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
Director Pulliam reported on the Legislative Committee held January 23, 2007. If further
information is needed on the Legislative Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
West Corridor Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the West Corridor Committee meeting held January 10, 2007.
Subsequent West Corridor Committee reports will become a part of the FasTracks Monitoring
Update Status as a regular agenda item on the Board Study sessions. If further information is
needed on the West Corridor Committee, please refer to the minutes.
DUS Committee
Director Elfenbein reported on the DUS Committee meeting held January 12, 2007. Liz Rao
presented on the DUS Master Plan Schedule. Subsequent DUS Committee reports will be
incorporated in the FasTracks Monitoring Update Status as a regular agenda item on the Board
Study Session. If further information is needed on the DUS Committee, please refer to the

minutes.
Chairperson’s Report
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher reported that the Chairperson hopes to have the
Committee and Chair Appointments finalized by the end of the week.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF December 12, 2006
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the December 12th
2006 regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 11 votes in favor (Brohl, Chacon,
Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Tayer, McMullen, Quinlan,
Ruchman, and Yamrick) and 0 votes against. Directors Busck
and Daly abstained since they were not a part of the Board at
that time.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Briefing to Longmont City Council on January 15, 2007
Cal Marsella, Director Kemp and members of the RTD staff had a productive meeting
with the City of Longmont.
2. Meeting with Jeffco Commissioner Kathy Hartman on January 17, 2007
Director Pulliam, Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, and Scott Reed met with the incoming
Commissioner to establish rapport and open doors for communication. The meeting was
successful.
3. New Board Member Orientation on January 18, 2007
Cal Marsella was unable to be here but his Senior staff provided good information about
their organizations and answered lots of questions by the new Board Members. Cal
Marsella extends an open invitation to the Board Members on any items they may want to
discuss.
4. West Corridor Elected Officials Briefing on January 19, 2007
Cal Marsella reported a good exchange of information at the West Corridor Elected Officials
Briefing. The Value Engineering work was discussed and the effects of high material costs
leading to the need for cost containment measures. Any work to be done in the West
Corridor is subject to the completion of the EIS and the hold harmless clause.
5. Other Issues
Cal Marsella indicated that the recent trend in sales on the internet is negatively impacting
the anticipated sales revenue. Currently sales on the internet are not subject to sales tax.
Cal has initiated the conversations with the Legislature and RTD will take the lead in
requesting release from this internet phenomenon. Cal will discuss this issue at his GM
Conference coming up this week.
Cal Marsella expressed his personal thanks and appreciation to the Board and RTD for their
support to him during this period of personal matters.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Kinton asked that item J be removed from
Unanimous Consent Agenda.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Daly, Busck McMullen, Tayer, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman and Yamrick) and 0 votes against.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

A. Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure located on the wall
at the entryway to the RTD Administration office located at 1600 Blake St as the location
for posting of public notices including Board and Committee meetings for 2007.
B. Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract with the Seniors’
Resource Center for the Provision of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” contracted demand response
transit services. This contract is for one year for an amount not to exceed $498,144 with
four (4) one-year options in the amounts of $517,684 (option year 1), $539,653 (option
year 2) $562,593 (option year 3) and $586,504 (option year 4), for a total five year
amount not to exceed $2,704,578. These costs are based on an hourly rate and include
estimated fuel costs which will be treated as a “pass-through.” This proposal represents
the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 16D0046, to provide “Evergreen” Public Transportation Services. The contract to
provide this service is scheduled to begin March 11, 2007.
C. Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter
into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide
RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an amount not
to exceed $500,000.
D. Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter
into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in
the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $350,000.
E. Cost Sharing Agreements-FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter

into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource Center
to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized)
services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are
for calendar year 2007 and for amounts not to exceed $323,420 for Boulder County,
$87,035 for Adams County and $89,116 for Jefferson County.
F. Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the
City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential
areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,207,418. It is also recommended that the Board authorize the General Manager or his
designee to enter into an Agreement with Special Transit, to provide local match funding
for the acquisition of replacement HOP vehicles in an amount not to exceed $915,000 and
to transfer up to $300,000 from the HOP capital vehicle replacement account to the
expense budget.
G. Extraordinary Snow Event Funding
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a transfer of $850,000 from the bus operations diesel fuel account to fund the
contracted snow removal services in 2007. In addition, it is recommended that the Board
of Directors increase the snow removal services’ contracts for a total amount not to exceed
$850,000.
H. 2007 Funding for Off-Duty Denver Police
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
execution of a 2007 purchase order for the Denver Police Secondary Employment for
$389,160.00. Funds for the 2007 purchase order are in the 2007 adopted budget.
I.

.

IX.

Recommended Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a modification to the District’s Investment Policy such that the Policy would
include, as Eligible Investments, all investments permitted by Colorado Revised Statutes for
public moneys (CRS 24-75-601.1).

RECOMMENDED ACTION
J. Adoption of 2007 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administrative Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the accompanying performance measures, goals and objectives to be included in the
2007 Performance Report.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved the recommendation to adopt
the accompanying performance measures, goals and
objectives to be included in the 2007 Performance
Report.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Kinton requested feedback on the performance
measures and the changes requested by Director
Ruchman. Cal Marsella shared these changes were
discussed in the Operations Committee and the proposed

measures reflect these changes. Director Kemp indicated
that Director Ruchman had made the motion to accept in
the Committee meeting.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

K.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck,Chacon, Christopher, Daly,Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,Tayer and
Yamrick) Director Ruchman had left the room.

Board Resolution 2 Series of 2007-Commitment to RTD Riders

MOTION:

Director Brohl moved the recommendation for approval
of Board Resolution 2, Commitment to RTD Riders.
Director Kinton seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Extensive discussion occurred around the appropriateness
of using the word “regret” in this resolution. Several
Directors expressed the desire to acknowledge the
difficulty or inconvenience experienced by RTD riders and
to relay the efforts by RTD to develop a more
comprehensive snowplan. Cal Marsella made an appeal to
the Board that while RTD did an admirable job during
these snowstorms, it is healthy to look for ways to
improve and become better. Therefore he had no
objections to this resolution and asked the Board to cast a
unanimous vote in favor of this resolution.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED unanimously.

L. Recommendation for Contract Award to Marsh USA for Insurance Brokerage and
Administrative Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to award to Marsh, USA a 5 year contract with a 5 year
option (to extend) to provide Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage and
Administrative Services on a Rolling Owner Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP). Funds
for the award contained within the FasTracks budget.
MOTION:

Director Busck moved the recommendation for approval
to award contract to Marsh USA for Insurance Brokerage
and Administrative Services
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Extensive discussion occurred around the process for
granting the bid to Marsh USA, especially as it related to
the price differentials between the HRH bid and the
awarded contract. Director Chacon expressed real
concern on this issue and requested an explanation given

the focus on cost containment. Cal Marsella walked
through the three step process used in the evaluation of
bids and reiterated that the recommendation from the
evaluation team was unanimous and that he felt confident
in the process. Directors Elfenbein, Quinlan, and Busck
stated their confidence in the team that performed the
evaluation.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher shared what he had
discovered in performing additional research and stated
he could not justify spending $2M more than needed to
be.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 9 votes in
favor (Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Tayer and Yamrick) and 5 against (Brohl,
Christopher, Ruchman, Kinton and Chacon)
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

M. May 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors approve
moving the proposed May 6, 2007 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review
and comment.
MOTION:
Director McMullen moved the recommendation for
approval to move the proposed may Service Changes on
to public review and comment.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

After some clarification on this action item, a vote was
taken.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and
Tayer) and 0 against. Director Yamrick had left the
room.
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

N. Routes 6X, T and W
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of Directors decide
whether to reinstitute service (at a reduced level) on former Routes 6X, T and W, or any
combination thereof.
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved the recommendation that the
Board of Directors approve the modified reinstatement of
the 6X, T, &W routes not to exceed $500K annualized
cost, excluding the cost for the P route, but with the
proviso to accelerate the implementation of the P route as
soon as possible. The modified routes would include 3

a.m. and 3 p.m. trips on the T route with 2 a.m. and p.m.
trips between Wagon Road and Broadway to connect
with the T. There will be two a.m. trips and two p.m.
trips between Ward Road and Cold Springs.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

After numerous clarifying questions and responses, the
Board members for the affected Districts concluded this
was a reasonable solution given the ridership and
subsidy costs for these routes.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

O. Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for Design Engineering and
Property Acquisition for Union Pacific Facilities
It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter
into a contract with the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) for 50% design and engineering on
relocation of UP trackage and yards and for UP property acquisition for its relocation, in an
amount not to exceed $40 million. Funding is included in the FasTracks Program and 2007
FasTracks Budget.
MOTION:
Director McMullen moved the recommendation for
Contract with the Union pacific Railroad for Design
Engineering and property Acquisition
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against
Chairperson Pro Tem Christopher declared the motion
PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Cal Marsella petitioned to forego the Executive Session and shared that Joan Fitzgerald was
sponsoring a draft resolution that endorses the risk management fund. This required no
RTD action.
Directors Brohl and McMullen moved the motion to delete the executive session and
adjourn.

XIV.

ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 7:30 pm.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 23, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chairman
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chairman
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick

District J
District G
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Shirley Bennett
Ron Dodsworth
Cheryl Holmes
Lloyd Mack
Tony McCaulay
Richard Morton
Bill Porter
Teresa Sedmak
Roger Sherman
Errol Stevens
John Tarbert
Phil Washington

Bruce Abel
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Brian Iacono
Caitlin Magee
Bob Medina
Paula Perdue
Liz Rao
Cal Shankster
Joe Smith
Henry Stopplecamp
Lisa Trujillo
Howard Alton

OTHERS PRESENT
Steve Gee – Spectrum A/V
Russell Greear
LW Morrow
Richard Castro
Yetta Crigger
George Bowdouris - Willis
Terry Doherty – Willis
John Flocco – Willis
Bruce Beiback – Veolia
Kathie West – Marsh
Ted Webster
Brian Chesher
Klasina VanderWert – Cherry Hills Village
Joe Gergely – Adams Mark
David Ross

John Dawson
David Genova
Marla Lien
Brian Matthews
Robert Merriman
John Perry
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Jim Stadler
Mike Sundquist
Bill Van Meter

Kevin Shane – Marsh
Wells Harvey
Laura Garrison
David C. Benson – Willis
David Rothenburger
Kathleen Osher – Transit Alliance
Deborah Mueller
Glenn Decker
Greg Ball – Marsh
Kathleen O’Brien
Jon Esty – Colorado Rail
Ken Smith – CCA
Frank Williams – MV
Steve Lockton – Lockton
Danise Lilly
Pamela Dunn
Steve Kovach – AIG
Craig Merten – HRH
Sandy Gibbons – Lockton
Stacy Picrass – Lockton
Bruce R. VanZandt
Ralph Vucart
Dean Villano
Robert ViZlano
Pete Guidry
Debra Duke
Rebecca Swinehart
Mark Bundy

