Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 2,
2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

August 3, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
August 2, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Pro Tem Hoy; Directors Anderson, Cohen, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, and Tobiassen.
Directors Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Kemp, O’Boyle, Riley, and Tayer

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Jeanette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, and
Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Debra Baskett – City of Broomfield, Lori Frasier – Key, Bill Mosher –
DUSPA/TCC, Liz Rao – HNTB, Tom Rousakis – VP Goldman Sachs, John
Schwab – CDOT.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Pro Tem Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
and indicted that the Denver Union Station update would be moved to
the first item.

Denver Union Station
Bill Mosher indicated that as of June 30, 2011 the overall project is 40% completed
with completion modes being:
 LRT – 84%
 CRT – 26%
 Bus – 43%
 Streets and Plazas – 39%
For the Light Rail, a portion of the Union Station Plaza will open to the public August
16th.
Director Malpiede added that this cutover project is going by very fast, and the entire

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 2,
2011
Page 2 of 4

Union Station area looks very different.
II. Recommended Action


Authorization to award the design/build contract for the Mall Paver Pilot Program for
one block of the 16th Street Mall.

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a contract with _________ in the amount of $________. The
contract is for the design and construction of one block of the 16th Street Mall to test
alternative concepts for the rehabilitation of the mall pavers. Funding for this project in
the amount of $2.8 million, including $800,000 in grant funds, is included in the 2011
budget.
John Shonsey noted that the 16th Street Mall was originally constructed in 1982 and is
approaching its 30th Anniversary. A few years ago, RTD approached the public to
determine if the mall should be refurbished or rebuilt, and public sentiment was in favor
of refurbishment. The Pilot Program will take one block of the mall and examine
different ways to set the pavers to determine a sustainable method, and to bring back
luster and friction to the stones. This is a time sensitive project since the time frame to
complete this is between August through November due to winter and tourist season in
the spring/summer.
Director James added that this project is a bit unusual due to the time constraints, but
is worth doing.
Director Tobiassen noted that this is referred to as a Pilot Program and asked if the
companies bidding for this project are familiar with and understand the technology that
we are asking for. John Shonsey added that we are looking at two different
technologies with regards to tile placements and have been examining this for quite a
while and will choose a contractor with the necessary experience.
Director James further added that one of the perspective bidders for this project is the
company that currently maintains the maintenance on the mall.
Director Anderson noted that one grant had been applied for though DRCOG and asked
if any other grants were being applied for. John Shonsey explained that there are
currently 2 grant applications for the mall, and one is directly tied to the Pilot Program.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
August 16, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 2,
2011
Page 3 of 4

Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Kemp, O’Boyle,
Riley, and Tayer were absent from this
vote.

III. Updates
 Industry Forum
Julie Skeen explained that the Industry Forum will seek out innovative approaches
from the private sector to complete the FasTracks program faster, enhance the
overall RTD customer experience, and reduce the cost of operations. Four main
phases of the Transformation though Transportation process will include:
 Phase 1 – Hold an Industry Forum in September
 Phase 2 – Request Conceptual Proposals
 Phase 3 – Request Detailed Proposals
 Phase 4 – Request Competing Proposals
The Forum is scheduled for the afternoon of September 27th at the Denver Athletic
Club where lunch will also be provided. The save the date notice has already been
sent and a formal invitation will follow. Over 300 firms have been invited to attend
and the sources used to identify the list of invitees included the Denver Business
Journal top firms, Engineering New Record top designers and constructors, RTD
Top Vendors, Eagle P3 Forum List, and recommendations from RTD’s technology
and capital programs staff and consultants.
General Manager Washington added that this forum is the first of its kind and we
expect a lot of agencies to follow suit.
Director Malpiede inquired if there would be a fee for these firms to attend. Julie
Skeen noted that no, there would not be a fee.


Denver Union Station Historic Building Procurement
Bill Sirois explained that 2 proposals had been received and the RFP is being
finalized to be released this week and the firms will have 60 days to respond.



Grants
Bill Van Meter noted that RTD applied for the following projects under the State of
Good Repair category:
 16th Street Mall Rehabilitation
 Civic Center Rehabilitation
 Intercity Coaches
 Deferred Maintenance projects
 Nine Mile Parking Structure
 Business Intelligent System
Additionally, RTD applied to the following grants under the livability category:
 16th Street Mall Rehabilitation
 Civic Center Rehabilitation

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 2,
2011
Page 4 of 4

IV. Other Matters
Director James added that the Board Policy for Organizational Memberships will be
forwarded to the Board for their consideration at the next full Board Meeting on August
16th.
V. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
September 6, 2011.
VI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:27 p.m.

