Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, April 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 22, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday April 22,
2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick.
Director Quinlan (via telephone)

Member Absent:

Chair Kemp and Director Martinez

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bruce Abel, Dave
Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Liz Rao, Lloyd Mack, Ron
Dodsworth, and Phil Washington
Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, Caitlin Magee, Robert
Merriman, Bill Porter, Daria Serna, John Shonsey

Others Present:
***
Call to Order:

Holman Carter, Jeff Lieb, LW Morrow
Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.

Since this was a special study session with primary focus on the 2009
Budget Preparation Process, Director Tayer, Chair of the Finance Committee
facilitated this session. Please refer to the email memo sent earlier 4/22/08
by Chair Tayer pertaining to the value of this session.
I. 2009 Budget Assumptions
Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration, introduced the
process the staff would follow in the 2009 budget orientation. An agenda
outlining this process was handed out in the session and is attached to the
minutes in the Study Session notebook located in the Board office.
Phil Washington handed out an input form for additional Board members
comments to the operational budget and Susan Cohen handed out a separate
form for the TDP process for board input as well.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, April 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 3
Robert Merriman outlined the budget timeline and board input noting critical
dates for the Board members. He reviewed the budget flowchart noting five
primary opportunities on the calendar for Board interface: foundational, staff
development, board study and comment, legal and year end and
implementation and monitoring.
Liz Rao spoke to the TDP and provided a handout of the 2009-2014 Transit
Development Program Process for the Board of Directors. A copy of this
handout is included with the minutes in the Study Session notebook located in
the Board office.
Several questions/comments were asked from the Board of Directors:
Director Ruchman wanted to know if there would be a strategic board retreat
to discuss policy implications to the budget. Several other Directors felt a
retreat was needed prior to the June 10th financial session to discuss 2009
budget assumptions.
Director Yamrick expressed concern over the revenue versus expense lines of
the budget and needing to understand how these balance as well as other
sources of funds/revenues that are not clearly delineated on the budget. Cal
Marsella responded about the assumptions used for revenues and
expenditures and asked Phil to note on the budget any unanticipated possible
sources of funds.
Liz Rao clarified that the TDP includes only service and projects funded from
the base 0.6% sales and use tax. FasTracks has its own budget and financial
plan.
Director Tayer articulated some of the concerns from the Directors that there
might be a disconnect between the schedule provided for the operational
budget and the TDP and the process needs to be better merged so the Board
could look at this as a collective process. Cal Marsella explained that the TDP
is suppose to be an umbrella document that sets a framework for a five year
plan to be calibrated every year by the actual budget. Director Tayer
acknowledged his comment but still felt some disconnect.
Bill Porter presented on the assumptions and forecasts for the service planning
and scheduling. Bruce Abel validated that the assumptions presented included
only the base level service and did not include any special requests or
enhancements.
Director Brohl questioned the ADA service levels and reductions in
percentages. Bruce Abel spoke about how the District arrives at this figure
that includes a number of factors such as travel training, growth in user base,
as numbers grow, percentages get smaller, etc.
Director McMullen asked about revenue enhancements (i.e. parking

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, April 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 3
management, legislative, recouping more dollars at the Federal level, etc). Cal
Marsella spoke briefly about this but did not feel this would add greatly to the
budget. Several discussions occurred on the SB-1 and its impact on
prioritization of projects. Director Yamrick wanted clarity on how these
projects were prioritized and what input the Board would have to this process.
Liz Rao and Cal Marsella provided an explanation of how the various agencies
input to this process.
Director Ruchman requested that as the budget process proceed,
contingencies need to be built in the assumptions and numbers on the impact
of rising costs, decreased sales revenue, etc and increasing demands for
service (1-2%).
Robert Merriman concluded the budget session with a review of the 2008
amended budget process.
II. Transit Property Request to Host APTA Conference
Director Tayer went around the room offering each Board member a chance to
weigh in on whether RTD should host an APTA conference in 2013. Several
opinions were expressed with about 7 Directors in favor and 3 against.
Cal Marsella expressed a desire to take this to the full Board for a vote.
III. Other Matters
 Cal Marsella provided an update on the UP purchase of
property/options as part of the plan to move UP to Fort Lupton. He
requested support for a resolution to offer back property acquired to
the original owner first at purchase price and secondly to open
market.
 Cal Marsella shared that HP-1278, Eminent Domain, had been
amended back to the original form and sent back to Committee. The
Board indicated this is not acceptable and request the lobbyists to kill
the bill.
 Director Yamrick raised a concern that people who receive a ticket on
the light rail would be charged with petty larceny which remains on
their record. Cal Marsella requested John Tarbert and Dave Genova
to provide a response to the process and concerns identified.
 Director McMullen offered the suggestion that pictures of the Board
members be placed on the mall shuttles welcoming visitors to the
DNC convention.
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:38 p.m.

