2024-06-11
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, and welcome to the Tuesday, June 11th meeting of the RTD Finance and
Planning Committee. The Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. My name is Doug Tisdale, and I have the honor of serving as the Chairman of the Finance
and Planning Committee. I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending this meeting, please mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. That will make for a much better record.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. And please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will continue for a time to be held remotely via Zoom, and they will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of these meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the RTD Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing to you Communication Access Real Time Translation, also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided to you.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to have access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. And finally, a live stream of this meeting is
also available via RTD's YouTube channel. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Bob
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Bobby Dishell is absent on an excused absence this evening. Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Committee Vice Chair Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
DOUG TISDALE: JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: And again, for the sake of the record, Doug Tisdale as Chair is also present. And for the
record, I see that we also have present with us Directors Eric Davidson, our Board Chair, Julien Bouquet,
Marjorie Sloan, and Jaime Lewis. Have I missed any Directors who are present whose name I did not call?
All right. Thank you.

I would now like to open the public comment portion of our meeting. This is to allow anyone from the public
to address the committee regarding any topic that is listed in the published meeting agenda for this current
month or for the immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and you have not already done so,
please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Now, please note that during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, well then, please just email the
RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Executive Manager of the Board, are there any
hands raised or indications to make public comment?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At
this time, I do not see any attendees present who have raised their hand in desire of providing public-- in
desire of providing public comment. Excuse me.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Yes. Just washed your mouth, can't do anything with it. I know how
that happens. All right, then we have nothing from public comment from a presentation being made. Were
there any emailed comments received for today's meeting? Which is a rhetorical question, because I got
one I know. But let me ask you, Mr. Kroll, if you can identify any emailed comments.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Tisdale, there was only the one item, which I previously circulated, which
is from Greater Denver Transit, and it was public comment related to the item you will take up under
recommended actions with respect to TABOR.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And just for the sake of clarity on that, it was a recommendation in favor of that
action on the debrucing of the TABOR amendment. All right, then. With no other, counting Greater Denver
Transit, with no other participants in the queue, we will close public comment period at this time.
The next item on our agenda is information from external entities. There is one external entity report on the
agenda, and that relates to the Build America Bonds. For this item, I would like to ask Doug McLeod, our
Chief Financial Officer, to introduce this item, someone from his staff, and then our guest from Hilltop
Securities. Mr. Chief Financial Officer, the floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Good evening. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. I'm
joined tonight by Brendan Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, as well as Mike Newman,
who is the Senior Managing Director and Regional Head of Investment Banking with Hilltop Securities. And
Hilltop Securities is RTD's municipal financial advisor. We do have a presentation to walk through that
Brendan Morgan will take us through. So, Brendan, the floor is yours if you're ready.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Thank you, Doug. I would be happy to. Is the Board Office going to pull up that
presentation or-DOUG MACLEOD: I can pull it up if you'd like, Brendan.
BRENDAN MORGAN: OK. If you've got it handy, that'd be great.
DOUG MACLEOD: You got it.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Apologies. Yeah. I didn't realize we were pulling those up. Well, thank you, Doug.
Again, I'm Brendan Morgan. I'm the Senior Manager of Debt and Investments for the RTD. And this is a
informational item that we're going to walk through regarding Build America Bonds. So next slide, please.

So the topics we'll cover here include the strategic priority that this informational item ties to, walk through
an overview of what Build America Bonds or BABs are, why they exist, et cetera. We'll talk about some
recent events relating to Build America Bonds. And then we'll talk about RTD's existing Build America Bonds
that it issued way back in 2010.
So as far as strategic priorities go, this information item ties directly to the financial success of RTD. In the
finance department, we routinely monitor RTD's debt portfolio and look for opportunities to refinance or
restructure RTD's debt in order to achieve future interest expense savings or reduce risk. Sometimes, and
maybe in the short term here, we might be able to accomplish both of those things. There's been some
current events that may allow RTD to accomplish both of these, or at least one of them. But we will see as
time passes here. Next slide.
All right. So we'll start with the Build America Bond overview. Build America Bonds were created by the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act back in 2009 to enhance capital market access for local
governments and state governments.
Typically, when state and local governments issue debt, we do it as a tax exempt debt, meaning that the
interest payments that we make to the investors, they get to keep those and not pay any federal income
tax on those payments. This Build America Bond program encouraged local governments to issue taxable
debt where the interest payments made to the investors were indeed subject to federal sales tax. So it was
a higher interest rate than what we would normally issue.
To make up for that higher interest rate, the federal government agreed to provide a 35% subsidy for any
interest expense paid for the life of these bonds. Unfortunately, the federal government has not paid that
full 35% subsidy since 2013. This has left local governments and states that issued these to pay higher
than expected interest rates since 2013. The subsidy being paid by the federal government this year is
currently at 33% compared to the 35% originally agreed upon and anticipated.
All right. This next slide, we'll continue on the BABs overview. It's going to talk about optional redemption
provisions. This is a bit of a dry topic, but it is very important given some current events that have happened.
So when it comes to the ability to prepay debt for various reasons, whether an issuer wants to refinance
the debt or simply pay it off early, there's typically different terms included in various types of bonds. Build
America Bonds have what's called a make whole call provision as opposed to a par call, which is common
in the tax exempt bond market.
I'll explain the difference here. So when we issue tax exempt debt the way we normally do it, we will issue
bonds and they will have what's called a par call. And it allows us, the issuer, to prepay that debt once a
certain date is passed. All we have to do is pay out the amount of money that we borrowed and haven't
paid back yet, that principal amount, and we can be on our merry way.
The challenge is Build America Bonds have what's called a make whole call. So what a make whole call is,
you still need to pay that principal amount back, the amount that you borrowed. And then on top of that,
you have to pay a premium that's essentially equal to the future value of all the interest payments that
you've not made yet. So it becomes very expensive to prepay the debt early. Next slide.
So Build America Bonds or BABs typically have an optional redemption and extraordinary optional
redemption provisions. Both of them are make whole call provisions. The difference, though one is more
beneficial than the other to issuers like RTD. As I mentioned, the standard make whole call is very

expensive. The extraordinary optional redemption provision is a little bit cheaper. And the difference is really
in the factor that calculates the present value of those unpaid interest payments that haven't been made in
the future. So those get cheaper under the extraordinary optional redemption provision.
Now, what is an extraordinary event? What would allow RTD to use that provision? That's been a good
question. It's a question that we've bothered our bond counsel with a few times over the past several years.
But essentially, an extraordinary event is anything that is a material adverse change to specified sections
of the Internal Revenue Code, in a nutshell. So if that's happened, if such a change has happened, then in
theory we, the issuer, would have the right to exercise the extraordinary optional redemption provision
should the board and RTD as a district choose to do so. Next slide.
So there have been some recent events, mostly around these optional redemption provisions. The biggest
cornerstone recent event here was a lawsuit filed by the Indiana municipal power agency versus the United
States. So, as I mentioned, for more than 10 years now, the subsidy for these BABs subsidies has been
less than originally promised due to sequestration. The Indiana municipal power agency issued BABs just
like RTD back in 2009, 2010, and they sought to restore their full 35% subsidy payments through the courts.
This case proved favorable. It provided favorable guidance for issuers of Build America Bonds like RTD.
Essentially, the takeaway is that maybe we can exercise this extraordinary optional redemption provision
that our bonds have. And you've seen, if you look at the municipal bond market recently, you'll see a lot of
these Build America Bonds being refinanced. Every month, it seems like there's a couple of them being
executed as refunding or refinancing transactions. Most recently in the news, there was an article about the
New York MTA. Their board authorized staff to approve-- approved for their staff to refund up to $3.7 billion
of their outstanding Build America Bonds. Next slide.
So as a result of this lawsuit, most bond councils now view sequestration as material adverse and therefore
an extraordinary event. This conclusion gives RTD the right to exercise this extraordinary optional
redemption provision. However, not all investors agree. The University of California Regents recently
exercised their extraordinary optional redemption provision and received a letter from a group of some of
their BABs investors stating that they believed the University had no legal basis to exercise their redemption
provisions.
The issuers that signed that letter were also buyers of the new bonds that were used to refinance these
Build America Bonds. So they were angry enough to write a letter, but not necessarily angry enough to not
continue to invest in the University's bonds. Last week I spoke with Director Tisdale, and he asked a very
good question. He asked of the investors that signed that letter to the University, are any of them known
RTD bond investors in our Build America Bonds?
So that was a good question, I thought. So I worked with our underwriters and we looked at our certificates
of participation, Build America Bonds. And sure enough, we did find two investors that do own some of
those certificates of participation, Build America Bonds. Now, there's $100 million of those bonds
outstanding. We were able to publicly identify $87 million, the owners of $87 million of those bonds. And
out of that $87 million, these two investors own $1.3 million of the outstanding debt. So a relatively small
portion.
One point I'd like to make that I think I skipped over earlier just before we move on regarding the subsidy.
This subsidy is subject to elimination absent a waiver by the federal government of the Pay As You Go Act
of 2010. Now, the good news is currently the subsidy is not subject to elimination until September 30, 2025

next year. So it's not going away this year. After September 30 of next year, we'll see. We'll see what the
federal government does there. All right. Next slide.
And this is the last slide. All right. So, RTD's BABs. What Build America Bonds do we have outstanding?
We issued two different series of Build America Bonds back in 2010. The first one is on the top of this slide
here. It was the certificates of participation series 2010b. Those were issued for $100 million. The proceeds
were used to fund various, excuse me, FasTracks projects, including two W Line parking garages. The
coupon on these bonds is 7.672%. There's currently $100 million outstanding, and the final and only
maturity will be paid in 2040.
The second BABs that we issued were FasTracks sales tax bonds. They were issued for $300 million, were
used to fund various FasTracks projects, mostly the W Line. The coupon on those is 5.844, much lower
than the previous ones. Current amount outstanding is still $300 million. And again, the final and only
maturity will be paid in 2050. So that's the information we've prepared for you. We'd be happy to answer
any questions you may have.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much for the presentation, Mr. Morgan. That is most helpful.
And what I would like to do at this time is to open up to the committee relative to any questions that you
may have, unless first, let me ask of our Chief Financial Officer, does Mr. Newman from Hilltop Securities
want to add anything or supplement at this time or just wait for questions?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn it over to
Mike, Mr. Newman, I'd also like to mention that this is being brought to this committee at this point in time
as an informational item. What our plan is, is to come back in July to the committee with a recommended
action to actually do the refinancing of the $100 million of certificates of participation.
I think the big win here for RTD is not going to be necessarily much of an interest savings, if any savings at
all, but to eliminate the risk associated with being exposed to sequestration and possibly losing that subsidy.
So as you saw, our interest rate that we're paying on those certificates of participation is north of 7%, I
believe it was. Yeah, 7.672%.
That's a very high rate. If we were to pay that entire rate, it's much more expensive than our cost of capital
with our other debt. I think Brendan, Mike, we're somewhere in the range of 2% to 3% on most of our other
fixed rate debt. So that would be the impetus for asking the board next month in July, asking this committee
to give the General Manager the authority to go ahead and refinance these $100 million of COPs.
The other ones, the other 300 million of bonds are out of the money. They don't make sense right now at a
5.8% interest rate that it would cost RTD more than it would be worth probably at this point to pursue
refinancing those. But those are still on the table, and we'll keep monitoring those. So thank you for the
opportunity. Mr. Newman, do you have anything to add?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Newman, please proceed.
MIKE NEWMAN: I guess, to supplement Brendan's comments, in addition to New York Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority has announced an intent to
refund $376 million. As Brendan mentioned, the Regents for the University of California have refunded
BABs in the amount of $1.2 billion. The state of Washington similarly refunded BABs in the amount of $428
million. The Commonwealth of Kentucky, through its Turnpike authority, refunded $128 million. And Purdue
University refunded $72.4 million.

So there are quite a number of municipal entities taking advantage of the current interest rate environment.
As Brendan discussed in his remarks, a make whole redemption provision is designed to make it expensive
for an entity to refinance a debt, and it's designed to eliminate the ability to refinance debt for a savings.
We have watched this at the direction of Doug and Brendan for a number of years.
The other reason it comes to you now, one is the legal events that Brendan touched on. But we're in an
interest rate where we have very high taxable rates relative to very low tax exempt rates. This is relevant
because when you calculate the price to pay off the outstanding BABs, you discount those payments that
are owed at the taxable US Treasury rate. You fund that payment through the issuance of tax exempt debt,
and currently tax exempt debt is a historically low percent of US treasuries, which makes this affordable.
And as Brendan said, it is not one being pursued for savings, although there may be some. And there may
be a loss. It is more about risk reduction.
And I would ask the board members to consider these two BAB issues are the only issues that RTD has
outstanding that the interest rate can change. They're the only two. So this simply would make the
certificates of participation, which are the ones that are economical, would make them like the rest of the
debt of RTD.
What it would also do is position RTD in future if interest rates are favorable to refund these BABs post
refunding once again, because they will be your traditional tax exempt bonds with a 4% or 5% coupon. And
when you go to refinance them, you would only, as Brendan said, pay the outstanding principal plus the
accrued interest to the redemption date.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Newman. And before turning to Director Broom, who has far more
experience in this field probably than most of us on this conference at this point. Just to summarize, it's the
$100 million out of the $400 million total, the $100 million that represents COPs that we are talking about
doing this refunding of. And many other agencies and public entities around the country have, in fact,
proceeded in this manner.
And the two recalcitrant investors in the University of California situation who are investors of ours hold a
total of something like $1.3 million out of our $100 million that we're talking about in this COPs. And I'm just
trying to set a risk scenario for the committee to understand before proceeding to a further consideration of
this. At this point, first, let me ask, Mr. MacLeod, have I misstated anything in my summary?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We currently have an inverted yield curve. Would it be possible to
extend the debt out and maintain the TABOR exclusion? Or are these securities not involved with that
issue?
BRENDAN MORGAN: That is a good question, if I might. The current final payment of the FasTracks debt
is related to the RTD FasTracks bonds, and that's scheduled for the year 2050. These certificates of
participation are not limited by TABOR. And beyond that, they also mature 10 years before that final
payment. So there's really nothing we could do with this particular potential refinancing that we're discussing
to extend that debrucing that you're referring to.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: And Director Broom, let me ask, does that satisfy the questions that you had at this time,
sir?
BOB BROOM: It does, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there other committee members or board members who have
questions, either of Mr. Morgan or Mr. MacLeod or Mr. Newman? I see our board chair, Director Davidson.
You are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you, everybody, for the presentation here. Very
interesting and helpful. One question I had, and I apologize if I missed this, and I think maybe, Mr. Newman,
you were touching on this a little bit. On packet page 11 in the slides, I think it was slide six, it's noted that
the difference between the two provisions being the optional redemption versus the extraordinary is really
the discount factor.
So I had two questions. One is what is the delta between the discount rates? Maybe it's three questions
here. What is that delta and how are those set? Sort of part one. And part two, are there other provisions
that we need to be thinking about that could have any ramifications beyond the discount rate?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Morgan, are you in a position to respond to that or do you want Mr. Newman to cover
it?
BRENDAN MORGAN: I'm happy to take a first swing at it here. So I don't have the bond indenture in front
of me right now that has those exact rates, but the indenture defines the discounting calculation and it points
to US Treasury securities. If my memory serves me right, because I may be mixing up the bonds versus
the COPs, they might be the same. I don't recall off the top of my head. However, they're somewhat flexible.
It points to US Treasury rates, and within the past year, as I believe it's worded. So it gives a little bit of
flexibility.
One of the things that the University of California Regents investors were discussing was that calculation.
And they wanted to be able to understand it. So I think other issuers, I suspect, are going through that with
their investors as well to make sure that they're on the same page. And it's something we'll have to tread
carefully with if we were to pursue this potential refunding.
We would probably notify the market ahead of time and say that this is a potential transaction that the board
has approved or is going to consider something like that at some point in the future so that the investors
have time to look at the documents and wrap their mind around it and then come up with questions before
anything actually happens. But I'd be happy to defer to Mike Newman as well, if you'd like to add any color.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Newman, please.
MIKE NEWMAN: Following on from Brendan's remarks, the issue, setting aside potential disagreement
whether that extraordinary event has occurred, the challenge in executing the refundings has been
calculating that make whole price. Because the documentation for those bond issues was not clear. That
has been the overriding complaint that I've heard. Knowing that, one of the first things we did is we looked
at the RTD documents. And fortunately, or reflective of the quality of bond counsel engaged by RTD, it is
explicitly clear how to do the calculation in the RTD documents.
To Director Davidson's question and following along Brendan's, the discount factor is the difference
between the extraordinary and the optional make whole redemption. They both refer to the US Treasury.

The difference is the margin over the US Treasury that is added to come up to the total discount factor. I
don't recall off the top of my head what the delta is between that margin, but it's the interest margin where
your delta is. Both used the same treasuries, et cetera. They define where we look to see the Treasury rate
and when we do so. But it's that margin that is different that creates the enhanced opportunity through the
extraordinary. And we can follow up with you.
DOUG TISDALE: And Chair Davidson, is that responsive to your question then?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Perfectly. And I don't need follow up on the numbers. That answered it better than I
asked the question. That's exactly what it did. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, sir. And in any event, let me point out that we have between today's
date, June 11 and July 14, before this matter comes back to us potentially as a recommended action to
address various questions that might arise, either in the minds of the committee, other Directors, or for that
matter, investors who will be receiving notice relative to RTD's consideration of this action. At this point,
any other comments or questions from the committee or from any other board members?
All right. Seeing none, gentlemen, thank you very much for a good presentation, Misters Morgan and
Newman. Nice job on that. We appreciate it. And we now turn to our next item on the agenda, which is our
regular monthly update from the Revenue Diversification Working Group. And for these purposes, we
always defer to our board Chair Davidson to present this item, because he's a part of that Revenue
Diversification Working Group. Chair Davidson, you have the floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep this very simple, because I'd like to defer some comments
to a later agenda item. But the Revenue Diversification Working Group did meet twice since we last
convened at this committee here, once on May 28th and once on June 3rd. While there have been several
topics, the two primary topics of those last two meetings have really centered around the new legislation,
most notably SB 2432 and SB 24184. I'm sorry, 230 with respect to those measures that have added
available revenue for transit. So SB 2430 being the oil and gas production fees and SB 32 being methods
to increase the use of transit.
So we had a brief conversation around SB 32 and the $5 million that will be available for RTD to pursue for
its Zero Fare For Youth program. There will be more coming on that. I expect, Mr. Chair, you to will be the
one to be shepherding that very soon here as we start to discuss that program.
SB 24230 being the oil and gas production fees. Largely the conversation is too early to know how the
formula funding will be calculated at the Clean Transit Enterprise or CTE, and what revenues will be
available to RTD and under which conditions. So that's certainly something that staff will continue to follow
and this board will be hearing about in the months and the years ahead.
As everyone will recall, the large conclusion of the Revenue Diversification Working Group when looking at
our opportunities of what we can do inside the agency and what's going on more broadly was really to look
to our state partners to identify new sources of funds. So this is great to see that the state is working on
those. And we have work to do now in partnership. I suspect in many ways, that will start to shape and
inform what we would like to do with the Revenue Diversification Working Group moving forward, which I'm
committed to working with Committee Chair Tisdale here to determine and with staff as well.
The other major topic that we discussed, which has taken up quite a bit of the time of discussion at both of
the last two meetings, is the TABOR cap calculation. And if it's OK with you, Mr. Chair, I'd like to defer some

of the comments I have regarding that to one of our recommended actions, at which time I would love to
make some comments to offer some of the perspectives and calculations of the group.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's a prudent decision and we appreciate your suggesting that. We'll proceed in
that manner. Are there any questions or comments of Director Davidson relative to his report on the
Revenue Diversification Working Group?
Seeing none and anticipating there will be a fulsome discussion on the next item, we turn to the first of our
two recommended actions that we have on the agenda this evening. The first recommended action is for
the Taxpayer's Bill Of Rights or TABOR ballot initiative.
And this recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution number blank
series of 2024, submitting a ballot question to the eligible electors of RTD at an election to be held on
November 5, 2024. To wit, without imposing any new tax or increasing any tax rate, authorizing RTD to
continue to collect, retain, and spend all revenues it receives from whatever sources without regard to the
limitations set forth in the Taxpayer's Bill Of Rights, TABOR. May I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And is there a second to Director Guissinger's motion?
BOB BROOM: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Broom is the second. So I have Guissinger as the movement and Broom as
the second. I would now like to call once again upon Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to begin
the presentation on this item. Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. And I would like to
defer to Board Chair Davidson to describe this item. But essentially, we've brought this to this committee
and the board TABOR discussions in the past on several occasions.
This is a critical item for RTD or a critical concern going forward, the TABOR impact the revenue growth
limitation may have on RTD going forward. So it's definitely a concern that we've been discussing for better
than two years now in terms of what that impact would look like. We know that it will be negative. It won't
be anything good for RTD at some point, we just don't know when. So at this point, Mr. Chair, if I may turn
it over to Board Chair Davidson to discuss this item, I'd appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Board Chair Davidson, you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Tisdale, and thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I'll keep
this very brief. I know we've discussed this and certainly don't want to overcomplicate this, but did want to
share a few perspectives and then very happy to answer questions, as we have others here who can do so
as well.
As members of the committee and the Board will recall, the revenues that will be subject to TABOR at the
end of this year were we not to proceed or succeed with a ballot initiative would be approximately half of
our revenues. That would be $600 million. The question then becomes, what is our risk exposure if we did
not pursue or succeed in a TABOR exemption? And this is an interesting question that turns out to be quite
difficult to answer on a looking forward basis, and I want to highlight why that is and then highlight some of
the things we've done to better quantify and understand it.

I'll start with one of the simplest things we've done to quantify and understand it that we have previously
reported on and I touched on in some slides some time ago, which is talk to other government entities who
have not succeeded or not pursued TABOR exemptions. And what is the magnitude of refunds that they
have faced? And those ranges that we have been provided run between 7% and 11% And that would be
pretty dramatic were we to apply that to $600 million. And that gives you some idea of where the upper end
of some of the risk exposure may be in a year where we have refunds.
But then the next question is, OK, well, will we face that or not? What can we forecast? And at this moment,
I want to talk a little bit about some of the dialogue that the revenue diversification working group has had
with our subject matter experts on staff trying to answer the question of how do we calculate our TABOR
cap? And this is a little bit of a buckle up, because we are collecting sales and use tax revenue.
And yet our calculation for the TABOR cap is not tied to sales and use tax and trends with consumer
spending. What TABOR is tied to is our cap is calculated as a function of the revenues we collected in a
given year and then applying to that two things. A CPIU growth rate, which is a consumer price index for
all urban consumers, and then a local growth factor. And that local growth factor is calculated using the net
change in actual value of all real property in the district.
So this is actually a function of looking at additions to taxable real property value as well as deletions, which
can come from, for example, destruction of property. So despite the fact that we're collecting sales and use
tax and should we have to refund that, that's its own question of how you even go about doing that. The
calculation of our TABOR cap is tied to the consumer price index, basically inflation, and the changes to
real property value within the district.
So the reason I highlight that is forecasting this requires not only forecasting our sales and use tax revenues,
which of course, we do regularly with the CU Leeds School of Business. And then looking at are we on the
low side and do we choose to look at low projections versus more optimistic projections. It also requires
visibility to inflation that is largely out of our control and then also is tied to property value, which a number
of things outside of our control, not the least of which is other legislative activity, can influence. So it
becomes very difficult to forecast.
What you can do is look back and you can look back and see what may have happened in certain years.
And what I would say is to me, this is as simple as a Board Director looking at this, when I consider that we
had polling results that were within the margin of error, close to 70% in favor of this, what we're really asking
ourselves is, how much risk do we want to expose ourselves to over time?
We've talked about the ratchet down effect. When we have a year where economic conditions are just
slightly against us, inflation isn't where we need it to be for the right cap, we didn't collect as much sales
and use tax as we thought, or that change in property value wasn't as favorable, we are exposed to a
refund. And once you do, you ratchet down the minimum level of revenue that-- or I'm sorry, the maximum
level of revenue you're allowed to collect. Almost certainly, and most notably, if there's an economic
downturn, the same thing happens and you're now subject to chronic refunds and don't get to benefit from
the rebound in the economy.
So one thing I did just with our staff here, and it's a little hard to go hypothetical, but it's just to look back.
What if we had not been exempted from TABOR coming out of the economic shock of COVID? So as we
went from 2021 to 2022, what if we were not exempt from TABOR in the year 2022?

Well, we would have been facing potentially, and I want to be careful on how I phrase that in looking back
to those local growth factors, potentially on the order of about $50 million, potentially a little bit more,
potentially a little less. And then we'd have had a chronic effect still in the tens of millions of dollar range in
the next year. That's an example of where we would have felt that shock. That shouldn't be surprising,
because that's on the order of magnitude we have heard in that 7% to 11% from other government entities.
Are we forecasting an immediate refund right now? No, not in the year that we're currently in. But really
what we're playing with and looking at is how sure are we of our revenue forecasts? How sure are we of
changes in our ability to forecast property value in the delta? How likely are we to be able to forecast
inflation? And how confident do we feel in projecting macroeconomic conditions?
And that really concludes my thought when I look at this. When I do the look back and say, wow, our risk
exposure can be tens of millions of dollars in a bad year and I see the polling results come in close to 70,
to me, it's an easy answer as a Board Director to say that we proceed and move forward with that. So with
that, I will stop there and hand it back to you, Mr. Chair, and certainly happy if you'd like to defer to others
on the call that are here to answer the questions.
There is one, I'm sorry, there is one final note I want to make, because there is the question as well, which
is separate around fair campaign practices and what the Board will be able to do as we consider this. Rather
than have that be part of the conversation today, I did just want to highlight to you, Mr. Chair, and to my
colleagues here, call everyone's attention to the memo that was sent by General Counsel Snyder regarding
fair campaign practices.
Also to let you all know that her office is developing an FAQ to help guide us even further in that. And after
conferring with many of you and conferring with General Counsel, I have concluded that it will be best to
proceed with an executive session at our regularly scheduled Board meeting at the end of the month should
the Board decide to refer a measure, at which time General Counsel and her team can speak to us about
the campaign issues regarding this and what RTD can and can't do. So that's a completely separate thread.
Thank you, Mr. Chair, for allowing me to touch on that. I'll hand the floor back to you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Board Chair. We appreciate that, Director Davidson. The
important point I wanted to highlight there is don't get too intimidated by this, folks. And just to bring it down
a level to understand, generally speaking, after a governmental body decides to send something to the
voters on the ballot, the body that sent it cannot actively campaign for or against that measure.
They can, however, being free citizens entitled to their First Amendment rights, have an expression of
information regarding that item, but not advocacy regarding that item. That's a very brief primer subject to
so many footnotes that this meeting would go on forever. But I wanted to give you that just so you didn't
get too intimidated by the discussion.
I will also note for the sake of the record that we have with us Dalton Kelly, an attorney from Butler Snow,
who is a public finance expert with experience in these matters and a good DU law school grad. And to the
extent that we have very basic information questions, he may, as appropriate, weigh in on this.
But I am also advised that Mr. Kelly will be available to us at the Board meeting at the end of the month,
wherein we anticipate, should this matter go forward, having an executive session where we could receive
further legal advice, not only from our General Counsel, but from Counselor Kelly.

Now, with all that said, committee members, committee members with questions or comments regarding
this recommended action item to refer a ballot measure to this November's ballot for what is popularly called
the debrucing of RTD. I see no committee members indicating a desire to speak at this time. Let me open
it up then to other Board Directors who are in this meeting. Do any of you have any further questions or
comments at this time?
Ah, we go back to committee member Catlin for a first comment, and then we'll refer to Director Guissinger.
But madam Board First Vice Chair Catlin, your thoughts.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will be a yes vote for this. But I want to qualify it by saying I believe
that there are some really good provisions generally in TABOR. But because we are asking for an extension
of that which we already had as a TABOR exemption, I am in favor of that, because it would essentially be
a net negative if we decided not to go forward. And I believe in allowing the voters to vote on this. And so
therefore, I am definitely a yes on this particular measure as narrowly defined by this particular
circumstance. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. We appreciate that observation. The important
thing that I would like to highlight from that too, is once again, this board believes in allowing voters to have
a voice in how RTD is governed and how RTD proceeds. Madam Board Second Vice Chair Guissinger,
Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And I just wanted to add my voice. I think that this
is the right thing to do, as our Chair said. Our polling numbers were very good, 68%, 70%. We looked at a
sunset provision, decided it was very close in terms of what support we were giving. We are already getting
lots of people who are asking about what the situation is and wanting to be educated.
And thank you for your comments and for setting the executive session, Chair Davidson. I think that we will
be looking to all of the board to work with your constituents and your electeds and others to understand
what we're doing. And just to be clear, as elected officials, we do get to have opinions and share those with
the people around us in terms of supporting this. So it'll be a big season and I'd say I definitely agree. Let's
move it forward.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much, Director Guissinger. We appreciate that. And in particular,
because his name was invoked, but also because he has raised his hand, Board Chair Davidson, you are
recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. I just would be remiss in-- I did want to say this. A lot of
effort has gone into getting to this place and understanding and quantifying this. Thank you to everybody
on staff who has participated and helped with this.
But I would also like to just say, just as she spoke, thank you to Second Vice Chair Guissinger for her
leadership. The investigation under this, the drive to go after this really started under your leadership as
Chair. And you have not let this issue go and been pushing on it and really appreciate the help and just
wanted to publicly thank you for the leadership and the work in making this get to this point. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Very appropriate, and we appreciate that expression. Are there other committee
members who wish to weigh in at this point? Otherwise, I'm going to open up to the other Board Directors
in this meeting to add any comments that they might choose. So please indicate by raising your hand.

I see at this time, there are no indications of any committee members or directors with a desire to speak
further on this topic. So we will then proceed to the vote on the resolution on this recommended action with
the movement being Director Guissinger and the second being Director Broom. Let me ask, are there any
no votes on this action?
Then we have six votes in favor. No negative votes and no abstentions. Therefore, that motion passes
unanimously and the matter will proceed to the full board for our regular board meeting at the end of this
month.
The second recommended action this evening is for the Central Park Station development negotiation. This
is a recommended action for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to negotiate and execute an exclusive negotiation agreement referred to as an ENA with Ulysses
Development Group for the future lease and development of the real property located at 3801 North Ulster
Street, Denver, Colorado. May I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Vice Chair Guzman as the movement. Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I heard Director Guissinger first, so I'll take you as the second on this matter. And
recognize, one thing I'd like to emphasize first for the discussion to keep it in context, this is for an exclusive
negotiation agreement. This is not the consummation of a lease or sale of property. It is to approve a
negotiation agreement. And so I would call upon Chessy Brady, who is the Manager of Transit Oriented
Development of RTD, to present this item. Ms. Brady, the floor is yours.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Yes, good evening. I'm Chessy Brady, Transit Oriented
Development Manager. And happy to bring this to you this evening. As Chair Tisdale summarized from the
action itself, this is an authorization from the board to negotiate with the developer, Ulysses Development
Group, about this westernmost parcel in the Central Park Station.
It is generally an exclusive negotiation agreement. It's mostly to give confidence to Ulysses Development
Group, UDG, that we are exclusively negotiating with them. They can invest time. They can invest money.
We're not talking to anybody else. And during this process, we will begin and terminate and finalize the
negotiation of a ground lease. But to start, it's just kind of opening the doors to get to that ground lease,
which we'll eventually bring back to the board when we have a set of terms.
So I went through the presentation when this was a discussion item last month. I'm not going to go through
it again, but I do have it. I'm happy to bring it up if there are questions or to answer any other questions that
you may have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Miss Brady. And yes, we did ask Miss Brady if she could forego simply
presenting what she already told us just a month ago, figuring that we could at least remember what
happened last month. And so we're here now for any further questions, clarification, or issues associated
with the motion that anyone would like to raise. So let me go first to Board Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
You are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Miss Brady. I noted in the Board report that it
mentions the new legislation, which I think was ultimately SB 230 that authorized RTD to sell property at

less than fully fair market value. That's a piece of this conversation. Is that something that may make a
difference here?
DOUG TISDALE: Miss Brady.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. Yes, the ground lease, the price of the ground lease itself will be an important
topic that we will negotiate with the developer. Up until this point, we were expecting it to be a fair market
value. I have no doubt that they will request less than fair market value. And we'll work with the Board and
work with staff to determine and also work with our partners in the state and the city to determine what is
appropriate, what makes sense for RTD. We have the equitable TOD policy, and we'll use that as guidance,
but we'll come back to the Board with more information about that policy in general in the coming months.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Moving that policy forward a couple of years ago, maybe even
longer, and for moving this forward. It's great. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And to quote an ancient maxim of the law, there's no harm in asking. So perhaps they
will cognizant of that statutory change make such a request. Mr. Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized,
sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair. Miss Brady, I just want to make sure we-- and I'm just not sure on
this. We're not talking about selling this real estate. We're talking about a long term lease on this property,
correct? Just for clarification.
DOUG TISDALE: Miss Brady.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. Yes. The only disposition method under consideration is ground lease. We
are not considering leasing-- we are not considering selling the property.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. I think that's something that we all need to make sure we
keep in mind as we look at these dispositions of real property. Are there other questions from the committee
relative to this second recommended action as moved by Vice Chair Guzman and seconded by Director
Guissinger? Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just for our edification, could staff once again repeat, because we have
the word execution in this recommended action, the line between staff's delegation and what the board
would eventually have to approve?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And I think that Miss Brady can respond to that.
But I will initiate the response by saying, again, this is for a negotiation agreement to be entered into as an
exclusive negotiation agreement. It is not the actual disposition of the property by way of lease or otherwise,
which is a separate matter that would come back before the board for final approval. But let me ask Miss
Brady to weigh in and affirm or refute what I have said.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. You covered it. It is indeed-- I'm looking at the action. It is
for the General Manager and CEO or her designee to negotiate and execute an exclusive negotiation
agreement and for a future lease. So no disposition approval at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha, does that respond to your question?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, it does, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to make sure I understood because we also had
similar actions in recent history. And I had just taken a look at our unsolicited property proposal guidelines
and was making sure we haven't deviated from that. And if I could put this in more plain language, my
understanding is that we had a proposal that was effectively put out to bid, for lack of a better phrase, and
RTD said, I choose you to continue the conversation and that's where we are. So I just wanted to make
sure that my understanding is what is transpiring, and it sounds like that is the case.
I also just wanted to make a comment. And I alluded to this at our last meeting. The initial proposal for this
development, as stated by the developer in the public forum, has changed a little bit from what staff has
presented us, including the number of units and potentially how many would be affordable, and how
affordable will be measured. And so to that end, if staff has any more updates since we last spoke, I think
that would be helpful for the board to chew on before this goes for action at the board meeting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And obviously, without negotiating against ourselves in
this discussion and creating lines in the sand that may or may not be mutable, let me ask Miss Brady if she
has any comment in response to your question.
CHESSY BRADY: So as stated in the action in the report, UDG is expecting at this point approximately 800
affordable units. Sometimes they have submitted documents that say 800. They have said more. And that
will continue to change during the negotiation period, based largely on financing, which comes from the
federal government, the state government, city governments. So we will be watching that very closely. But
our intent is to-- or I should say our staff intent is to achieve high density and high levels of affordability on
the site.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Miss Brady. And Director Ruscha, I see your hand has popped up
again. I take it you'd like some further clarification on that. You're recognized for that purpose.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just maybe a comment. Director Guissinger had referenced a recent
change to state statute, and that is a tool we have in our toolbox. And I would just opine this is also a matter
of public interest. And so I just strongly encourage staff and leadership to, if we move forward, to see what
is possible to make those units as affordable as possible.
Just as several people have noted in and out of this forum that using a metric such as AMI is not necessarily
what most people quantify as an affordable unit. So I recognize that this potential partner might have some
restraints, especially if there are HUD dollars attached. But I think I just, again, want to encourage staff to
use the tools that we have in our toolbox to cover those gaps. Thank you so much. And I also just really
appreciate the team for working on this. It's in my district, and I hope to be at the ribbon cutting ceremony
if all proves successful and beneficial.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, and a very worthwhile annotation by you relative
to this dialogue. Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Chair. Will there be shared parking use at this site and/or will there be diminished
parking based on the fact that this is close to a TOD site? And has there been any experience in Denver
where projects have been built with less parking? And what has occurred on the side streets around those
projects?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. And Miss Brady, I know that you had addressed some of
those parking issues in your presentation previously, so you may have that information readily at hand. If
you could respond to Director Broom's question, please.
CHESSY BRADY: Sure. So there's two ways of looking at parking on this site. One is the removal or
reduction of RTD customer parking. And the plan is to remove the approximately 650 RTD spaces currently
located on the parcel. As I describe in the action, we feel that that's an acceptable reduction based on
current utilization and even past utilization.
The other side of the parking equation is how many parking spaces would be provided for the future
residents. And Denver has very liberal laws or ordinance requirements for requiring parking for residents,
especially in affordable developments. So the parking requirement from a zoning perspective would be very
low to nothing. And so we will work with the developer to ensure that they are providing enough parking so
that there is not spillover into the other RTD parcels, which would happen on this site.
And this is something that we follow very closely for affordable developments, market rate developments
across the district, and are really trying to keep tabs on in order to make sure that we're building the right
amount of parking. Not too much, not too little. And that's a changing data point as well. So we will keep
watching that as this development becomes more concrete.
BOB BROOM: Sounds like we want Goldilocks parking. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom, for stealing my line. I was going to say, we have built
something that is Papa Bear parking and our usage has definitely been Mama Bear on a diet. And I think
that's some of what has motivated the willingness of staff to present this item to us at this time. Director
Broom, did you have anything further you wish to say at this time?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. Director Lewis, you are recognized, sir.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Chessy, for all the work you're doing on this. As you
know, this is just the beginning of a long process. As you know, the media only reports on RTD if there's
something negative going on. So I'm just curious if we can squeeze some PR out of this while it's fresh,
because obviously, we're talking a year or two years down the line before this thing actually starts to actually
grow. So I'm hoping maybe you can work with our department to get something out there to the media.
CHESSY BRADY: I have done the interview, so we'll see if it becomes an article.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Anything further from you on that point, Director
Lewis, or any other point?
JAIME LEWIS: I'm fine. Thank you, Director.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I know that Mr. Stewart Summers, our Director of Marketing and
Communications, is here with us as well. And am certain he's taking copious good notes relative to all of
this. So we thank you for that affirmation, Mr. Summers. Any other comments from any committee member
or from any Board Director relative to this second recommended action?

Seeing none, we're ready for a vote on this. And at this time, I would ask for any no votes on this
recommended action that was moved by Committee Vice Chair Guzman and seconded by Second Vice
Chair Guissinger. The chair hears no no votes, and therefore the vote will be recorded as six members of
the committee in favor, no members of the committee opposed, and one excused absence from this
meeting. That concludes the recommended actions that we have on our agenda this evening.
Now we will move on to our discussion items where we have four discussion items that are listed on the
agenda. The first of these discussion items is the Zero Fare For Youth pilot program. And I would like to
ask at this time once again for our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Doug MacLeod, to present this item with his
staff. Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. I am joined this evening
by Monika Treipl-Harnke, who is RTD's Senior Manager of Revenue. I would like your permission, Mr.
Chair, to relinquish the floor to Miss Treipl-Harnke as I pull up the presentation. We have a presentation to
walk through for this discussion item.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. It's the committee's pleasure to hear Miss Treipl-Harnke now.
Assuming, that is, that she goes off mute.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: There we go. OK, can you hear me now? Sorry about that. Yeah, I had some
funny messages. OK, thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, my name is Monika Treipl-Harnke. And I will be Senior
Manager of Revenue. And Doug MacLeod very kindly offered to run the presentation for me.
This is going to be pretty brief, I think. And I apologize for the strange background here. I'm just going to
briefly go over the background of the Zero Fare For Youth program at RTD, about the pilot program, and
then the next steps about extending this Zero Fare For Youth initiative for an additional school year. So let's
start with that.
So this all started with the system wide fare study and equity analysis, the goals of which were equity,
affordability, and simplicity. This was an initiative that fit all these three goals. It was originally started as a
pilot program, and we're still in the pilot program phase. The purpose of this pilot program was to provide
no cost transit to youth, children and youth up to or ages 19 and under. So really until your 20th birthday,
you're eligible. And this would be free boarding on all RTD services.
And yeah, so that we worked really hard to get that going for the school year, last school year starting in
September 2023. It was a pilot program. We were able to get a extension from the FTA and the permission
to do this for 12 months rather than just six months in order to capture a full school year.
The fare change requirements should we now continue this program for the FTA do kick in, meaning an
equity analysis is required. This was not required for pilot program. And Carl Green, our Director of Civil
Rights, did present that to you last month in this committee meeting. So let's keep going.
This is just for comparison. Under this current fare structure that we have in place, there is a youth fare. It
is just not being collected right now for this 12 month period. So the youth fare would be $0.85 for the three
hour pass. And currently everything is 0. And then, of course, we have the day and monthly pass prices as
well. This is a 70% discount off the regular standard fare.
OK. So the evaluation of the pilot and also some of it was already in the equity analysis, the draft equity
analysis that Carl Green presented last month. It was operational impacts where we were wondering if

there would be some negative ones, and really there weren't any. Either there were no operational impacts
or very minimal.
Community and customer feedback was very positive from inception of the program to now. Good media
coverage as well. Financial impacts were below the forecasted foregone revenue. And we'll look into that
in a little bit. And of course, we at RTD want to encourage the early use of transit. Let me just move my
computer so I'm not in the sun anymore. OK. All right.
So we'll talk about the increase right now with this slide. But I think we can really say this has been a really
big success. So let's talk about the increase in what we would expect. So you see this jump in youth
boardings based on the Zero Fare For Youth initiative. And this assumes that the initiative would continue
not as a pilot, but as a regular program. This was based on data that was collected also in conjunction with
the equity analysis. And it's really based on past boardings, counted past boardings on fixed route buses.
Let's see. So I should narrate this a little bit. So you see that we estimated 10.4 million youth boardings in
2023, which was an increase from the 9.3 million in 2022. And we would expect another jump to 13.7 million
youth boardings in 2024. So just as a reminder, being that it started the program, the pilot program started
in September, it means that 2023 had a few months of the pilot program. And 2024, should this program
continue, we'll have a full 12 months of the Zero Fare For Youth.
OK. And then foregone revenue. So the estimate for foregone revenue is 2.9 million. This is actually for
2025. So 2.8 million for 2024. I do want to explain the chart a little, because you can see 2023 revenue.
This is not foregone revenue, but this is actual revenue collected from youth boardings. And that's 3.7
million.
And what we did, what our consultants did is they took the youth boarding numbers and assumed if we
hadn't provided Zero Fare For Youth, then the numbers would not increase. And so the numbers pretty
much stayed the same or increased very moderately for the boardings. But then the average revenue per
boarding decreased because of our new fare structure.
So there's two things that changed just as-- in September 2023, we started the Zero Fare For Youth
program. And then as we know, in January 2024, all the fare decreases took effect. So we're looking at two
different variables here. And that's how we come up with this 2.8 million in foregone youth fare revenue. It's
only a very slight increase predicted for the years afterwards. Because by the time the program is fully
implemented, youth ridership would stay pretty much stable and just grow by the regular overall ridership
forecasts for our overall ridership.
OK. So the impact. We contacted some school districts. Or all of them, but got some responses about a
positive impact to truancy rates. That was specifically Boulder Valley School District. And then we had some
other feedback about higher regular usage by students, usage for field trips by students and teachers, but
we didn't get numbers for that. That was more of an anecdotal conversation.
Before this pilot was started, there was some internal and external conversation. Will this lead to disruptive
behavior maybe if we have more youth boarding and children? And there is no issues reported. Nothing of
significance, nothing systemic. Of course, customer boarding is faster when there is no fares to be paid,
people looking for cash.
And then from a public input perspective for this more permanent program, this is going to be part of the
service changes public process. So this is, for example, there will be six public service or six public meetings

and they're going to start next week. So there's going to be six meetings over two weeks. And this is going
to be the Zero Fare For Youth will be part of the presentations at those meetings. And people will have an
opportunity to provide feedback, people and organizations. So we'll have that information.
The Title VI analysis. I already mentioned that Carl Green, our Director of Civil Rights, he presented to you
last month at this committee meeting. There was no disparate impact or disproportionate burden present
for customers covered under the Civil Rights Act under the Title VI. So no impact on or no negative impact
on minority and low income populations. Let me just keep going.
So the estimated financial impact. We already saw that on the last slide. We expect about $2.9 million in
foregone youth fare revenue. That's for the year 2025. We expect about $410,000 in estimated expenses.
That would be marketing, language assistance, survey, providing an annual report. And then there might
be some other miscellaneous expenses as we get and understand the grant rules and see what other
expenses may be covered.
And speaking of grant rules, the Senate Bill 24-032 was passed in May and signed by the governor. It's
methods to increase the use of transit. So under this state grant, it establishes a state grant, $5 million
available for one year. This is specific to RTD and specific to the provision of free services for youth or zero
fare services for youth.
Grant rules and grant applications will be available in July and should the board decide RTD will apply for
this grant. And then future funding is subject to future state appropriations. So while we like to say, oh,
instead of a pilot program, let's make this a permanent program, from a state funding perspective, it's really
going to be year by year subject to the appropriations.
And then next steps. So I keep referring to it. You already heard from Carl Green, the preliminary equity
analysis, last month. Now we are having this conversation about the discussion item for extending the
program beyond the pilot. So next month in July will be the official discussion. The Title VI equity analysis
will be presented again by Carl Green and will be for your consideration as a recommended action.
And also the recommended action to extend this program past the pilot program, so past August 2023, will
also be coming to you on July 16th. And then two weeks later, July 30th, we will be asking for your final
consideration and approval if that is desired. And that will be, again, the Title VI equity analysis and the
program continuation. And thus thank you. And please ask any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Miss Treipl-Harnke. Nice presentation. And
this is a matter that we have discussed numerous times over the course of this committee, including the
excellent presentation by Mr. Carl Green relative to the Title VI impact. So I know that many questions that
had previously have already been responded to.
But this is an opportunity first for committee members to ask any questions or to make any comments
relative to this discussion item. You're not being requested to take any action tonight, but to have further
discussion. So are there any committee members with questions or comments relative to the Zero Fare For
Youth pilot? Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to say thank you for putting the numbers together in terms of forgone
revenue as compared to what is available. I'll be interested to see what happens. But given that the state
made it dependent on future appropriations, I'm grateful for having that available, because I'm really excited
about having the free fare for youth, especially since that is all year long and it serves a much needed

purpose. So I just wanted to say that. That was one thing that I was wondering about, so I'm glad it's in the
presentation. That's all. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. Appreciate that. And I do want to say, and I see
that Mr. Summers is still with us here, I loved the ad that we put out on social media of, and I'll say this word
even though someone may criticize me later, but the chubby little boy jumping up and down because
summer was going to be free on the RTD and he was going to have fun going everywhere.
And I say that because I was that chubby little boy and I very much appreciated seeing that. And I thought
it was a wonderful message that we shared. Are there any other members of the committee first, and then,
if not, other Directors who would like to make a comment or question? Madam First Vice Chair Caitlin, you
are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to make an acknowledgment to former Director Kate
Williams. She worked tirelessly on this, and I know that she would be very pleased to see the results of this
and also the action going forward. So just a shout out to Kate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's very nice of you to share that with us. I appreciate that, Director Catlin.
Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I just had a comment. Given that the state did not fund Free Fare For Better
Air this year, and right now this program is dependent upon grants, I just wanted to offer that at some point
we make a commitment to this program beyond any pilot phase. Of course, we would aggressively pursue
funds, but I would hate to see this program go away in the future because we didn't have an outside funding
source. And as others have noted, I'm very grateful to staff for going through this work and also for former
Director Williams as well. I think this is really great for our agency.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And yes, you do raise a question that we know
we will have to deal with at some point in the future, and that is whether we can convince the state to renew
its funding after this first year that they have guaranteed funding and also what other revenue sources might
be available in the future should that not happen. Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized now, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Has staff taken a look at what they could give up in some other program
areas in order to continue that program?
DOUG TISDALE: And let me ask Ms. Treipl-Harnke or Mr. MacLeod probably would be the best person in
the first instance to respond. So Mr. MacLeod, let me go to you, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Great question. We have not at this point. The concern,
obviously, was going into past the pilot program not having funding and trying to identify that funding. We
didn't know what the impact would be. So thank you to Miss Treipl-Harnke for all her work pulling together
those numbers. $2.9 million plus advertising and some of the other costs that were described in that
$410,000 other miscellaneous items to continue promoting the program. That portion would probably go
away.
So we'd be faced with the loss, simply with the loss of foregone revenue at the end of the current grant
period, assuming that we move forward with this item. So it would be essentially looking to find
approximately $3 million. I believe at that point in time, if that grant were to go away, we could identify a
specific item. It's a relatively small amount in the whole budget and the entire revenue for RTD. So not a
current material concern, I would say, but we certainly would look at that.

BOB BROOM: Well, I guess I was looking at the other program, the one for clean air.
DOUG TISDALE: And so the question then is relative to our Zero Fare For Better Air program, I think, is
where Director Broom is directing your attention, Mr. MacLeod. So any thoughts on that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, and so because funding is not being made available in the current
year in 2024, RTD will not move forward with Zero Fare For Better Air. There are a couple of individual
days. We will be coming back to the board regarding free fare on Election Day and National Vote Early Day
would be the recommended action there. We also have, excuse me, New Year's Eve as a free day.
Currently there's no plans to offer any other free days other than what's been discussed here with Zero
Fare For Youth if the committee were to move forward with that.
BOB BROOM: I guess I just feel like it's really hard to start and stop programs like this. You lose a lot of
momentum.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And also one of the things, too, that's very difficult on staff, as well as not
only administrative staff, but certainly our operators and our security personnel is the occasional
implementation of Zero Fare Days. As you can imagine, plus the costs associated with getting word out, et
cetera.
It did have some good benefits to it, but the loss in revenue in 2023, the two months, July and August, the
replaced fare revenue was approximately $14 million. So absent that grant funding in 2024, that's a more
significant number that RTD would have to make up. Plus the additional fact of the additional work, working
with vendors to turn off machines at certain points of time, et cetera. So yes, that's not being contemplated
in 2024.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. We appreciate your participation on that and
bringing that important matter back up. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just real quick. Board packet page 21, bullet number five that we have discussed
previously specifically calls this out in that ask to the public in terms of identifying funds, saying providing
transportation services for youth 19 years of age or younger at reduced or no fares in the potential ballot
measure that we will be discussing going forward in the resolution. So I just want to point that out. We've
kind of tackled this previously. It just needs to come back to us for a vote. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. And Madam Board Second Vice Chair Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Just to follow up on Director Broom's question about the Zero
Fare For Better Air. And I certainly appreciate the concerns that our CFO has raised. And I know you all
have looked at this. I think this year that not having it, it wasn't funded and not doing it makes a lot of sense.
We have a lot of maintenance projects going and doing the two at the same time is problematic.

But I would like to see the conversation continue in the future. And it'd be great to get it funded. But even if
it's just one month or a shorter period and there's a way to, as Director Broom said, move something else
around, I think that it's a very popular program and one that's worth considering in the future. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Dr. Guissinger. Director Lewis, you are recognized now, sir.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, I wanted to piggyback on what Peggy and JoyAnn were saying. One of Kate's queue
lines was that we're building a new generation to use RTD products in the future. So if you think about it, it
actually pays for itself because these kids are going to be wanting to get their pass as soon as they turn
20.
But one comment or question I wanted to ask our presenter, Monika. I know there's a little gap there. It cost
$2.7 million, but there's $5 million available. Not that we'd want to spend all this money on this particular
subject. But I was wondering if there are any efforts to utilize some money to get out to more languages,
especially in the area of Aurora. From what I understand, there's 65 different languages in that particular
city. And I hate to use that old expression, leave no kid behind. There's probably pockets of communities
out there that have no clue about what's going on. So I'm hoping maybe we use some money to get to
some of those community centers and other places where the language is a barrier.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lewis. A very valid point, because we have spoken in the past in this
committee and others relative to the phenomenal diversity of languages that we have represented in the
Regional Transportation District. And I know that all of our collateral materials are considered carefully for
translation into various languages. And I know that Mr. Summers and others are addressing that. Are there
other comments or questions from any committee member or any board member relative to this second
discussion item on Zero Fare For Youth?
Seeing none, Miss Treipl-Harnke, thank you very much for an excellent presentation as always, one that
gets a lot of great interest. I will point out to the board that it's now approximately 12 minutes after the hour
of 7:00. And although we don't have that much more to go, I am advised that it is necessary for our
transcribers to take a break from time to time and that we need to afford them that opportunity.
And so, as I have sometimes said in the past when doing presentations, I always like to give my audiences
an opportunity to escape at some point. This, ladies and gentlemen, is your opportunity. We will take a brief
recess. We will resume at 7:25, That's 7:25 PM, for our next three discussion items, which I don't think will
take an over long period of time. So thank you very much for your patience. And this committee will now
stand in recess until 7:25 PM. Thank you.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It is now 7:25 PM Mountain Daylight Time. We are reconvened after
our brief recess in order to conclude this June 11th meeting of the RTD Finance and Planning Committee.
Our second discussion item this evening is the Q1 2024 financial update. That's our financial update for the
first quarter of 2024. And we now call once again upon the tireless Chief Financial Officer of RTD, Mr. Doug
MacLeod, to introduce this item to the committee. Mr MacLeod, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Doug MacLeod again. So I do have a slide presentation here
just to give the committee an update on the financial position and financial results for RTD through the first
quarter. Why we chose the first quarter is we did not receive the April sales and use taxes until yesterday,
but I will comment on that as I go through. So we don't yet have April financial statements available.

OK, so what I'll talk about tonight is the current results for the first three months of the year versus budget
and also discuss the financial position, take a look at historical trends to put things into context, where we
were, and where we are currently. Have a little more in depth discussion about fund balances and then
finish up with some of the challenges we see going forward.
And most of this discussion is not only to provide an update but also in preparation just to level set for
coming items, including the discussion next month, which will be a preliminary look at the five year financial
forecast, formerly known as the midterm financial plan. We'll have a discussion item in July for the
committee discussing some of those items. And then we'll be coming back in September to ask for approval
of that five year financial forecast and then go into the budget discussions for 2025.
So just take taking a quick look at the first three months of 2024. And of course, everybody knows we're on
a calendar year, fiscal year basis. So we budget for and we record our financial statements on a 12 month
basis ending December each year.
Encapsulated the revenues here. At the top is the actual versus budget and then versus prior year. At the
bottom half of that section with numbers, it shows the variances of actuals to each of the above columns.
So for instance, fares, fare revenue through three months is $2 million. And the thousands of numbers are
dropped off. So these are in millions. So excuse me, these are in thousands. So fares, for instance, the
number in bracket there are about in the middle of the page is a variance of $2,313,000 versus budget.
So actual results are $2.3 million under budget, $5 million under prior year same time. The main reason for
the difference year over year to prior year is the change in the fare structure. That's to be expected. I'm not
too concerned about the fares versus budget of $2.3 million shortfall. It's relatively small. And it was based
on certain projections. So we need to watch that as the year goes to see how that materializes projections
based on the new fare structure.
Sales and use tax. I'll talk a little bit more about this in the challenges section. But what you can see here
is through three months, RTD is $8.2 million below budget. Keep in mind that the budget was built and
approved by the board in November for 2025. Since that time, we've gotten a revised forecast from CU
Leeds in March. That revised forecast is down slightly. So they're actually at CU Leeds, the economists
there are actually expecting a downturn based on some of the results we're seeing, which are shown here.
So we're $8.2 million under budget thus far on sales and use taxes.
Grants, again, this is not a concern. It has to do with the timing of the budget. So we show a negative $57
million variance to budget at this point in time. What generally happens is we spread the budget for the
grant funding that RTD receives, 5307 preventive maintenance funds, across several months. And then it
depends on when the application is approved and when we can start drawing money down with Federal
Transit Administration. So we will make up this difference by year end. So no concerns there.
And then other revenue. That's just miscellaneous revenue. It's relatively small, but it kind of offset some of
the shortfalls in fares. And it's really due to better than expected investment returns. And then some
miscellaneous receipts for things that we receive, such as insurance settlements and the like. So that's not
a number that we really rely on from a budgeting perspective, but it is a trending positive. So overall, $61
million under revenue, with the bulk of that being from timing on grant funding.
Expenditures through the first three months. Again, same format here. And what we've done is we've broken
out operating expenses, debt service, and capital expenditures thus far. Again, focusing on that middle

section there, the lower section. Operating expenses are to the good positive variance there of $27 million.
So we're under what we had budgeted by $27 million.
A big portion of that is attributable to several things. Lower than expected purchase transportation, which
is our contracted service for both bus and fixed route as well as paratransit. Also utilities are under budget,
insurance is under budget, and other outside services all totaling about $27 million. So that's trending about
what we usually see. We're usually under budget throughout the year. And we're working through the
budgeting process to tighten up those variances. But again, a lot of these budgeted appropriations need to
be fully appropriated up front by the board through the budgeting process in order to issue purchase
requisitions and go forward with the contracting process for state law.
Debt service is just a little bit under budget. Again, that's due to some offsetting investment income that we
get on debt service reserves and the like. So another good piece of information there. And then capital
expenditures are slightly over budget at 1.9. Those tend to fluctuate-- $1.9 million. Those tend to fluctuate
based on when we put the assumption together when those expenditures will occur during the year.
So I anticipate-- obviously we can't go over the appropriated amount, so I anticipate us coming closer to
the budgeted amount. So all told expenditures, $27 million under budget versus the 60 or so under budget
on revenue. Again, I'm not personally concerned too much about these items, because we're only three
months into the year and we have a ways to go.
Moving into financial position. So those are the results, the transactions, the money in and out, the fund
balances that I just spoke or the fund sources and uses through that three month period. Where do we
stand from a financial position? So if we look at our balance sheet as of March 31, 2024, we have total cash
and investments, and again, the last, three zeros are dropped off this, RTD has one $1,300,113,000 in cash
and investments.
And why this is on this screen is that's a critical component what's available to RTD potentially to spend
before subtracting all liabilities and other obligations. It's down slightly from the prior year. Again, that's due
to just timing of cash flows regarding some of the expenditures. We have to spend grant money up front
and then draw it later, et cetera.
So cash and investments, that's our liquidity position. That's how much money is basically available for
RTD to spend. Fund balances is what's left over after we subtract out everything that's due. So basically,
all of our liabilities. So if you were to look at our balance sheet within the monthly financial statements, you
would see you add that up a few numbers, but you would see these numbers. Again, very strong position
on fund balances, $1.2 billion, pretty flat to the same time last year.
So just to summarize what I've discussed so far regarding financial results, revenue is a little behind
expectations. We do have a positive expenditure variance offsetting some of that revenue shortfall. And we
do have a strong financial position. So this will all be key as we move into looking to the future for our five
year financial forecast as well as our budget.
Just quickly going over some historical trends. These graphics are actually included in the monthly financial
statements that you've seen. I just wanted to have the opportunity to discuss this and show what's happened
historically. So over on the left, the far left numbers start in 2018. And the two graphics, the two lines, the
red and the green drop below 0.

So what the red and the green are, those are the fund balances. That's the money that's left over that's
available. And I'll talk quite a bit here. Not a lengthy period of time, but I'll talk a little bit about fund balances
and the board's role in that. But FasTracks is shown in red. Base system's shown in green.
But what you can see is in 2018 is at that point in time, we didn't have enough money to necessarily pay
off all obligations if they were to come due at that point in time. Doesn't necessarily mean we were bankrupt,
because some of these obligations are way out into the future. But it's very important not to be in a position
where the fund balances are negative.
The top line, the blue line is the trends in our cash and investments. But what you can see with the red and
green lines is we've markedly improved as an agency our fund balances while also improving our cash and
investment position. So when we talk about being in a strong financial position, this is indicative of that. So
those two fund balances amounts are funding that's available per the board purview to use for certain
purposes. And I'll talk about some of the obligations that we still have that probably I would recommend
those fund balances be used for.
The flip side of the coin, when you look at our balance sheet, is what do we owe? If you go back in time
2016, this graph starts to show a nice trend line of eight or nine years here. This graphic shows the big
obligations that RTD has. So in blue is the total debt profile. So everything in the principal amount of debt
owed to our investors that was borrowed in 2016 is $3.9 billion. And then the other large obligation that was
on our balance sheet at the time was the pension liabilities of $320 million in the red box there at the top.
You can see the trend as it goes forward. And part of the reason for that, so if you get to 2021, you can see
we start to see significant decreases in those amounts. So moving all the way over to 2024, we're left with
currently the outstanding principal has dropped from 2016, $3.9 billion down to $3.4 billion. Part of that's
actual debt service that's been paid. But a lot of it's also due to the debt refinancings that have occurred in
more recent years when we had the opportunity. So we refinanced debt for interest savings, took out some
of the principal balance at the same time, and reduced the risk to RTD.
The pension obligation, $165 million down from $320 million. You may recall, in 2022 with the new collective
bargaining agreement, the Amalgamated Transit Union and RTD worked together to try to address the
large pension obligation that was out there. And you'll recall that that pension plan was closed to new
employees for represented employees going forward in 2023.
And there was also a large payment of $160 million, a lump sum put into that plan to sure that plan up, also
reducing the risk profile to RTD. So we've taken some steps as an agency to really reduce not only our
obligations and increase our financial position, but also to reduce some of the risks associated with some
of these financial items.
Moving into fund balances. So I've got this broken down by the types of fund balances. And essentially,
what the fund balances are is if you take RTD's assets minus its liabilities, what's left over is fund balance,
also known in the private sector as owner's equity. So it's really this essentially the savings that are left over
if RTD were to pay off all of its obligations.
So this should be the same numbers as the prior slide with the line graph. What I will point out in the base
system column is I realize that the $511 million at the bottom, $511,463 should be $695,000. I'll fix that, get
this presentation updated. The pensions were taken out of that number, but that's the difference. So that
number is showing lower than it should be, and it should all go into the unrestricted fund.

But just moving down each line item here. So we've got a column for base system, a column for FasTracks.
We have to keep that money separate. FasTracks cannot pay for the base system except for the feeder
service that we've talked about previously. So FasTracks funding has to remain only for FasTracks.
Just walking down through here. So there's restricted fund balances that we don't often talk about because
those are restricted by contract or agreement, such as debt agreements. That's money that has to be set
aside to service debt, for instance. We also have a restricted TABOR reserve that's required of all
governmental agencies in Colorado to maintain a 3% TABOR reserve, 3% of certain revenues. So those
monies are essentially untouchable for covenants. So total there is $183.6 million.
Then we get into the Board, the funds that fall under Board auspices. So this is the remaining money after
you take out restricted reserves. So through the fiscal policy that the Board has approved and through
discussions, there are essentially four different fund balances. I use the word funds and reserves
interchangeably. The operating reserves have been established as three months of operating expenses,
excluding depreciation. That number is $257.2 million. Again, that's up to the Board's purview. All these
items are under the Board's purview as to appropriate and to be used. So if anybody wanted to use any of
this funding, the Board would have to give explicit approval.
Capital replacement fund. So through the budgeting process, while we have this good cash position, we
identified $185 million set aside for capital replacement. That has to do with our state of good repair, the
transit asset management plan, and having that funding available so we do not have to, in the short term
at least, borrow money and pay additional interest costs.
FasTracks internal savings account. A lot of discussion about that recently. And have a couple more slides
to go into a little more detail about the FISA. What is in there currently is $190,99,000. That is a fund balance
established by the Board several years ago at the time to put money away for future FasTracks projects.
And then finally, the unrestricted funds. So the unrestricted fund is showing us $412 million, but it should
be $412 million plus another 200. So there's about $600 million. Sorry again. I'll fix that. $600 million. That's
everything that's left over that hasn't been identified by the board for set aside funds in the three preceding
line items.
Again, that whole bottom section is really up to the Board's purview as to how to spend that. Now, staff may
come with recommendations based on our five year financial forecast or based on the budget. For instance,
the capital replacement fund. As needs are identified rather than going out and borrowing money, during
the budgeting process, staff would come to the board potentially and ask to use a portion of that $185
million to apply towards state of good repair, for instance.
So again, restricted are contractual or statutory requirements such as TABOR. All the other items are under
the Board auspices. The Board has the authority to spend and only the Board can appropriate those funds.
So to touch on the FISA, there's been a lot of questions recently about the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account. So as you all know, the FasTracks plan, the FasTracks program was approved by the voters in
2004. As part of that ballot measure approval for RTD, there was a financial plan associated with that that
was approved by many, bond counsel, et cetera, that led up to that.
Within that FasTracks financial plan, as I mentioned, FasTracks money has to stay separate. The only
exception is that in that initial FasTracks plan, it was agreed that FasTracks would pay or reimburse or pay
the base system for any additional bus feeder service or paratransit service that was contemplated by

adding new rail lines. So it's essentially FasTracks service, but because it's provided by the base system
to service the FasTracks elements, it was determined to be a FasTracks cost. Therefore, FasTracks must
pay base for that.
In the FISA, this initial FasTracks plan, so the original assumption was that there would be a 1% growth in
the revenue hours of that bus feeder service and paratransit service that's being subsidized or paid for by
FasTracks. A 1% growth in the revenue hours year over year based mainly on population growth.
So in 2012, as you can imagine, there was a lot of discussion, a lot of public discussion about RTD's inability
to identify enough funding to complete the rest of the FasTracks elements. So there was a lot of discussion,
a lot of pressure, a lot of back and forth about trying to identify funding to finish additional FasTracks
elements. The result was that the board at the time established the FasTracks Internal Savings Account.
That FasTracks Internal Savings Account identified specific line items that were potential revenue sources
to put into a fund, the FISA fund, and keep building that until enough money was available to build additional
FasTracks items.
So the primary source, and I'll show you what this looks like here in the next slide, but the primary source
of that funding is approximately $22 million per year, and it's associated with that 1% annual growth. So the
original FasTracks plan said 1%, not dollar growth, but revenue hours growth, and then the dollars were
applied to that. So it was at the time shown that the actual revenue hours, these are service hours that our
revenue vehicles are in service, those revenue hours were remaining flat, but yet the plan was calling for
1% growth that FasTracks would pay to that.
As it was identified-- with pay to the base system. As it was identified that the reality was less than the initial
assumptions, that was identified as a source to say that instead of doing 1% revenue hour growth, let's only
have FasTracks pay the base year over year increases according to CPI inflation, knowing that those
revenues. So it's volume versus amount, essentially. So we changed from a volume calculation per Board
direction down to a percentage increase based on inflation.
The difference between those two is approximately $22 million per year. That $22 million per year, instead
of going to the base system to pay for bus service that's not necessarily happening, stays in the FISA. And
I would point out, I'm going to show you a condensed version of the FISA and kind of quickly walk through
that. But we do include a FISA statement in the monthly financial status report and have for a long time. So
it is available for public inspection. I'd be happy to discuss further with anybody that would like to.
So this is what the FISA statement looks like in the monthly financial statements. It's got more columns in
the actual statement showing more years. But just for presentation purposes, you can see, and I'll start at
the bottom and go back up to the top and work my way down. What you can see is the FasTracks Internal
Savings Account balance at the very bottom. In the 2024 column, there's the $190,000,099. That's the
balance that will reside in that account at the end of this year.
Starting at the very top, that limit FasTracks funding increases for bus and paratransit to CPI. That's at
approximate $22 million per year. It grows over each year because of inflation. But because we're not
having FasTracks pay base as much as what was originally contemplated, that difference is $21,000,192
in 2024. That goes into the FISA and stays with FasTracks. It doesn't get paid to base.
I'm hitting on a few other items here. So many of these items were identified at the time of the creation of
the FISA around 2012, 2013. So some of these items were one time things such as Union Pacific Railroad.

There was delays and it was decided to delay some work. That money was put into the FISA. Same with
savings on Project [INAUDIBLE].
So as FasTracks was being built out, once the budget, once that project was finished and closed out, if
there was additional budget left over, it went into the FISA. This is all FasTracks money. So the option was
leave it in the FasTracks Unrestricted Fund, or put it in the FISA so it's specifically identified for the purpose
of the FISA, which is to finish additional FasTracks projects.
Probably one of the only other really notable items in the top section is total sources of cash is that any land
sales or lease revenue that come into the agency, whether it's FasTracks or base system, goes into the
FISA. And there wasn't room here, but there's footnotes within the monthly financial statements that show
what that balance is made up of. It's been a few property sales, essentially.
So you can see all the sources that have come in. And then right below sources is the actual funding uses
that have been approved by the board through last many years. Additional money was used for additional
scope items for US 36 BRT for the FasTracks Flatiron Flyer. $6,000,129 for that. North Metro project draws,
additional scope work for the North Metro project. It was identified that that's a FasTracks project. Let's use
FISA funding per the Board. And then Northwest Peak Rail Service study of $8 million most recently, just a
couple years ago, I believe it was, that $8 million was identified to be used from the FISA because it applies
to future potential FasTracks expansion.
One last time I'll point out on this is can see out there in-- it's shown in the column estimated 2025 through
2040. There's two large numbers there. They both have to do with commitments that RTD agreed to. So I'll
start with the $60,000,746. That number is spread over three years, and it's really going to occur in 2025
through 2027. It has to do with the Denver Transit Partner, Project Eagle P3. Within the funding for that, it's
contemplated over that 30 year term that there are certain points in time where additional funding will be
paid to DTP for refurbishments and taking care of assets, because all the assets belong to RTD.
But Denver Transit Partners are concessionaires using those assets to provide service. The concessionaire
agreement requires that those assets be returned to RTD at the end of the concessionaire agreement in
the state of repair that would be expected for that point in their life. Along the way, there's additional spikes
in payments occasionally to Denver Transit Partners for payments to do refurbishments and replacements
of certain assets. So that's essentially what-- you notice it's debt service. Is kind of what we call our debt
that we pay to-- it's an obligation we pay to DTP.
US 36 project draws same concept, I believe. I'm drawing a blank on that one, but it's the same concept.
Those are out in the future. Those are fundings identified and agreed to through IgAs or concessionaire
agreements that need to go out the door. So if you look at all the way through 2040, it's estimated that the
balance in the FISA would be 525,000,333, barring any changes to this.
So finishing up here, some of the challenges going forward. So I've shown you a very good financial position
for RTD at this point in time and how we've gotten there, some of the things we've done to get to that point.
But there are some challenges. As we talk about, the five year financial forecast and going forward with the
budget.
And there's certain things that we need to keep in mind as an agency, number one being TABOR. A lot of
discussion about that tonight, the impacts that TABOR may have on revenue limitations going forward
should the TABOR debrucing expire. It will expire, but should the ballot initiative be approved by the full

Board and go forward, depending on the outcome of that, that could have some impact to RTD's forward
revenues.
We have new diversification. We've had lots of discussions how sales and use taxes make up 67 or so,
about 2/3 of RTD's revenue portfolio. That's subject to volatility with or without impacts from TABOR. So
we're reliant as an agency on one single revenue source that's not necessarily guaranteed.
What we're seeing with tax collections is they're slowing. So I showed you the slide through March and
we're under budget. We're also trending lower than the prior year for the same period of time. If you go in
with the April sales and use tax results, we're still seeing that flattening and decrease year over year in our
sales and use tax results.
And regarding TABOR, probably couldn't come at a worse time if we're going to see a decrease, because
that's going to be our new basis going forward if we're subject to TABOR in the future. Nonetheless, that's
something to keep our eyes on as we project forward and decide what funding sources we're going to have
and how they'll be used.
So when I talked about the good financial position with all the fund balances, one of the biggest
commitments that's not necessarily shown on our financial statements is maintaining our assets in a state
of good repair. So when we bring the draft five year financial forecast, what you're going to see is based on
current thinking, much of those fund balances will be consumed by maintaining our assets in a state of
good repair. Good example is the $150 million downtown rail reconstruction. That's a big chunk of money.
And that will continue to happen as our infrastructure and our facilities age.
So if you look at our financial statements, it looks like we have a lot of money, but it's essentially spoken
for. We really need that to maintain what we have. So I would just offer that caution that whether it's
FasTracks or base system, a lot of that funding, unless we want to borrow additional money to pay for
things, which creates its own problems, might be something that we should consider as an agency to keep
intact and spend down for purposes of maintaining our system.
Two, I guess one big unknown is inflation. What's going to happen with inflation? So what we've
experienced is a lot of volatility in prices of goods and services. That certainly has an impact. So we make
certain assumptions in our forecast and our budgets. And then whether that holds true or not is up to the
economy.
And then staffing growth. I just wanted to put this one on here, because our human resource department
and our Chief People Officer Polege is doing a fantastic job bringing people in. We must retain them. We're
making a lot of progress, in my opinion. So that staffing growth is going to be very important as to how we
ensure that we're staffing the right areas with the appropriate skill levels in coordination with our system
optimization plan. So every time we staff front line people, there's also associated support people. So we're
really taking a closer look as we go forward in our budgeting and building everything around the staffing
necessary to support system optimization plan.
So, Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation for the Q1 financial update, and I'd be happy to take any
questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And I truly appreciate the fact that you've said
several times that all of these data are available to the public. They're on our website. They are easily
accessible. And we are in the process of updating our performance dashboard to have even simpler, more

easily understood representations of all of this information in that context. So we appreciate that. Madam
First Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Doug, thank you for that very good presentation. I appreciate
it. And also your explanation of the FISA. But help me understand why in this current inflationary
environment that we've had, why the FISA contribution remains almost at $22 million for the year. I just
don't understand that. Can you help clarify that for me?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, thank you for the question, Director Catlin. Yes, so the inflation does
impact that, because we are increasing it year over year by the inflation rate. So it does increase the
amount. So if you were to compare the prior year, I believe it was $20 million, 19 point something million,
now going up to $21 million in 2024. So that increase is based on inflation. So it does impact that.
At the same time, it decreases the amount that was originally contemplated or the amount that was originally
contemplated stays flat. The 1% growth is just compounded. And then inflation goes up, so it kind of
squeezes the amount that goes to the FISA because it's that difference. If the FISA was never put in place,
the FasTracks would be paying-- FasTracks currently pays about the same amount to the base system of
$20 million.
It just so happens, coincidentally, that the amount that's retained for that difference is $20 million. So if the
FISA was never put in place in this decrease to CPI versus the 1% revenue growth, revenue service growth
wasn't put in place, FasTracks would actually be paying instead of $20 million, they'd be paying about $40
million to base for this service. So it does have somewhat of an impact. It's relatively small, even at 5%, 6%
inflation on $20 million, but certainly does come into play.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. If I might, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Please proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Follow up question. Well, also, I think one of our risks would be the TABOR question that
we may suggest go on the ballot this November would really only impact the base system. That's my
assumption. But then following that, this board has the auspice or the authority to pause a FISA contribution,
does it not? I mean, it was a previous board that decided that. It wasn't part of the 2004 FasTracks selection.
So that could be something in our hip pocket to offset something hypothetical risk, should the TABOR
extension not pass.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. MacLeod, please respond.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, great questions. So yes, I'm drawing a blank, Director Catlin, please
help me with the first part of the question.
PEGGY CATLIN: The first part was the risk associated with the possibility or hypothetical thing that this
TABOR extension would not pass. That's the risk to the base system solely. And so the second part was
the board's authority to deal with the FISA on an annual basis.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. So, yes, regarding the TABOR applicable revenues, so we've talked a little
bit about the voter authority 1999 extended the base system debrucing exemption from TABOR through
the end of no later than 2026 when the debt is paid off. So it happens that the debt will actually be paid off
in 2024, subjecting the base system certainly to TABOR.
In 2004, when the voters approved the FasTracks 4/10 and the borrowing capacity, et cetera, that ballot
language is very specific, only to the 4/10 that the FasTracks collects. So what's happening in the TABOR
calculation is it's not only the base, it's all non 4/10 sales tax revenue on the FasTracks system side too.
So it subjects FasTracks spare revenue, other investment income, other types of income that they may get.
So that's how we get the 50% of all of RTD revenues after taking out-- it's all the base part of FasTracks
and then you subtract out the biggest one is federal grants to come to about $600 million subject. So yeah,
it does affect FasTracks.
By the way, the FasTracks ballot initiative in 2004 not only spoke to the 4/10 being debruced, it also has a
sunsetting provision. So once the debt is paid off in 2050, currently scheduled, RTD may only retain enough
of that 4/10 to continue to operate and maintain the FasTracks system. So there's a potential to sunset that
4/10, reduce the 4/10 that's collected in the future.
The second question regarding the FISA. Yes, the Board certainly all those fund balances are under the
auspices of the Board to decide what to do with that, do nothing with it. You can change it completely. It's
totally up to the board. It was just something that was set forth in 2012 at the time. So including the FISA.
I think the only thing that we could not change is anything that was approved by the voters and in 2004 as
part of that financial plan. But within that those parameters, you can certainly make changes. And again,
the voters have not approved the FISA, for instance. That was a Board construction. Same with all the fund
balances. Totally up to this board what we do with that going forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It was not clear to me until tonight that the revenues generated from the
FasTracks were also subject to that TABOR calculation. So thank you for that. That's unfortunate, but
thanks for the clarification. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: You're very welcome. But recognize as to your last comment there, that is still a quarter
of a century away in terms of that sunsetting. I recognize for some of us, a quarter of a century isn't that
long ago or that far in the future, but it's something that we should at least note for the record. Other
committee members or board directors who have questions for Mr. MacLeod concerning this? Mr. Board
Chair Davidson, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you Committee Chair Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Really helpful
presentation. Well put together and walked through. Thank you for doing that. Very much appreciate it.
Just one quick comment to the point of the TABOR revenue. Just this was one of the importance of that
ballot language having retain and spend all revenues it receives, it being the agency, from whatever sources
without regard to limitations. So we are considering the whole amount there.
And then I just also, Mr. MacLeod, shifting gears, had a question for you. You talked about the challenges
and a little bit of softening in the sales tax revenues. And then also we're still in inflation and we have state
of good repair. And there's really an intersection between all three of those that could align to be pretty
tough. And I know we've got a disturbing trend, not just multi-industry, but industry specific regarding a lot

of projects going over budget across the country in transit right now, and in some cases pretty sizably and
even minimal limited number of vendors and bidding and so forth.
As I just think about those over budget projects, our system aging and being in a place of taking on state
of good repair while we're coming out of a high inflationary period and with some of those softening
numbers, I guess just from a qualitative perspective, how much risk do you see here to our current five year
financial plan? How much are you worrying about this issue and talking about this issue? And if you could
just shed a little bit of light of what some of the dialogues are internally, especially as we look at the
[INAUDIBLE] and so forth. Just would love to know your sense of big risks, small risks, somewhere in the
middle.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. Great question, and thank you for that. So what we're seeing internally is for all
of our efforts, all of our projects, essentially, we do put together an internal cost estimate before we can
issue a purchase requisition. So that's a precursor to that, to establish a foundation for what RTD believes
is willing to pay. Then we get bids in.
What we're seeing is Internal Cost Estimates or ICEs that were put together not too long ago because of
inflation and volatility of projects, they change rapidly. So something that was put together a year or two
ago, we need to take a quick look at it, not just apply an inflation factor. There's all sorts of materials costs
and things that need to be re contemplated. So that's one risk.
Fortunately, for the most part, almost all contracts that RTD enters into, with exception of work order
contracts, are fixed price contracts. So as we go to PR, we get an agreement, negotiate a contracted price
with the vendor. That's the price that RTD's not to exceed amount that you're familiar with hearing. That's
the price that's agreed to.
Things that are down the road is where the concern is. What does that really look like? So the way we
budget for things is we apply an estimated inflation rate. So we try to account for that in the future.
Obviously, this is unusual what we're experiencing in the last couple, two, three years. So that's been very
difficult. But that's definitely a challenge. It definitely affects what we can afford.
And we're also seeing we've had some experience with also some vendors that agreed to these fixed rate
prices that are really having a lot of pressure on them because of inflation. Because two or three years ago,
they agreed to a three year plus two option year contract at a fixed rate. Well, wages and everything else
is going up far faster than what they expected. So they're experiencing some difficulties, too.
So it's really across the board, and it's very difficult to estimate. Where in the past, we'd estimate the typical
3% overall and then certain different inflation rates for wages and certain categories. Fuel had a different
inflation rate. But this is just a whole guessing game at this point. But I think we need to be prepared as an
agency to err on the side of caution that these price increases and things are going to be just much more
expensive than what we've seen in the past.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And anything further from you, Board Chair Davidson? Thank you. Mr.
Committee Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. MacLeod, you had made reference to the sales and use tax report for April not
being quite available for this, but you did receive it. So I'm guessing, I'm just looking back at the previous
Board documents from March, and it shows about just under $71,000 in sales and use tax, which puts us

below our budget. And you said it was trending lower. So are we mimicking at a lower rate the 2023 trends?
Is that what we're looking at in terms of budget? Or is it going to surpass that a little bit?
DOUG MACLEOD: If the trend-- sorry, Mr. Chair, may I?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question. And what we're seeing on that trended basis.
And as an example, so when CU Leeds gave us the forecast in August of last year, they had estimated a
certain amount of growth in our sales and use taxes at RTD. When they came back and gave us the March
report, they had lowered that forecast going forward by a substantial amount. Not anything super alarming.
But the most recent forecast is saying they think that in 2023, based on at that point in time that RTD's
sales and use taxes would grow approximately 3% from 2023 to 2024. What's actually happening through
April now that we have the results is we are actually down 0.4%. So less than 1% from the prior year, but
that same for four months this year versus last, not only are we not seeing not 3% growth year over year,
but we're seeing smaller decrease. Yeah.
And it's not a large number. It's $1.2 million after four months. But just the trend is a little concerning,
especially when we budgeted for a 3% increase. And trends usually continue unless some anomaly. So I
would suspect that we're going to continue to see that trend flattening and potentially reduction in sales and
use taxes throughout 2024.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Chair, may I? OK, I got the nod. I have one more question. It doesn't need to be
answered now. Probably can't be. I know we're in the process of getting all of these numbers together. But
as we go forward through the year, in preparation of planning out a budget for 2025, will you be bringing
forward recommendations around some of these accounts and some of these funds that we have currently
specific to FISA to follow up with Director Caitlin's question about what are we putting in there? Should we
continue to put more in there?
I mean, I get that this is an update, which is great, but the updates lead to action. And so as a discussion
matter, will this committee be seeing some recommended action or some recommended discussion items
that lead to recommended actions about what to do with some of these funds from the agency side? Will
we be collaborating with you on some of those going forward into this budget planning process for later in
the year? That way, it doesn't quite come as a surprise at the end of the year, but also because we want to
be fully prepared and invested and knowledgeable and aware of what we need to do to mitigate any
unexpected circumstances.
I think my concern goes back to last year learning about CU Leeds School program and their projections
and being concerned that we were looking at this in too rosy a manner, even though it was fairly
conservative. And I will admit that. I'm still concerned that we looked too positively at what could potentially
happen with our Colorado economy. And so I want to make sure that we're addressing that as we go
forward, knowing that sales revenue and income of any kind is kind of building the plane as you're flying it.
And so I want to make sure that since we do not do a midterm or a mid-year budget update any further and
that we do want to just have one good, solid budget that's done really well, that we have all of our facts and
figures in order to be able to present one for 2025 that is going to be in the SMART goal mind frame,
achievable, relevant, and timely, but also very specific to what we know is going to be the truth about the
economic situation we face.

DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question. Great question. Yes, the answer is yes. Last
month, we began the discussion about the fiscal policy. We do have on the agenda for the July Finance
and Planning Committee to come back and continue that discussion. Where we're going with that is some
potential options for the Board to consider to maybe shore things up, particularly in light of TABOR impacts.
Just to be prepared, we've always been relatively conservative. So where we have as an agency three
months of operating reserves set aside, the Government Finance Officers Association recommends as a
best practice two months. So we've gone a little bit beyond there to set money aside. One of the things that
we proposed potentially that we may be coming to the board with, we're going to come with fiscal policy for
2025 as a discussion item in July. We're going to come back in September with a recommended action to
approve that fiscal policy to help develop the budget.
In the Revenue Diversification Working Group, we're discussing some potential protections, for lack of a
better word, for the agency regarding TABOR, such as possibly setting aside an additional reserve as a
recommendation for potential TABOR refunds. We could do other things like shore up, even increase the
amount of operating reserve. All those things that we would recommend essentially would buy RTD time
so that we can make adjustments going forward. If we didn't have any fund balances and all of a sudden
we ran into difficulties, the first thing that we would probably have to do is make operating expense cuts
and the biggest dollars there are service.
So I don't want to suggest that we would do that. We have the funding to maintain things. But it's going to
come at a cost, too. So if we end up using some of those fund balances that really should probably be used
for a state of good repair and we use it because our revenues fall and we burn through those reserves for
other purposes, I just think we need to be very mindful and forward looking as to what impacts that have.
And certainly that would be part of the discussion with the Board, make some recommendations, get some
feedback what the Board is comfortable with.
And also when we put together that five year financial plan, I think it gives a really good picture of what the
projected expenses are. So even though revenues are very difficult to building the airplane while you're
flying it, it's very difficult to accurately predict those or any potential recessions out in the future. What we
can get a really good view of is what expenditures, especially things that we have to do like pay our debt,
some of those items.
But then we can talk about what adjustments can we make going forward. There's a lot of things we can
do, a lot of levers we can pull in terms of being flexible going forward and adjusting to revenues. So that
would be part of the discussion as well. So hopefully I answered the question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, indeed. Thank you. I want to make one quick comment, if that's OK, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please proceed.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: One of the main issues that came out this last legislative season is that they want to
see a Board that is nimble with an agency that is nimble and quickly able to do these things. And so my
question and my ask about this is, although we do work at the speed of government, because that is what
we, the Board, are, we still have quite a bit of agility and the ability to move with both action from the board
and the necessary work from the agency. And it requires both of us working together.

And I want to point that out, because it's difficult to understand when you're not sitting here having these
conversations on a regular basis, understanding all of the complexity going on behind the scenes to point
at something as simple as a budget line item, one single piece, and not even understanding the entirety of
that. So as we go forward, I thank you for all of your work and your staff has done an incredible job. But I
want to keep being able to be nimble and agile, which I think this Board is quite good at when we have the
information we need.
But again, we as Board members, and somebody said it earlier, I think it was Second Vice Chair Guissinger,
that we need to be able to work within our constituencies and tell a better story as Directors to what's going
on. So when we have the knowledge from you about what's going on with our budget and our agency, we
have the ability to then go out and tell that story publicly about what's happening with the folks that we
represent in our communities respective to what's going on with service and how we're trying to protect that
and grow that, even if we are trying to deal with how do we make it all work and what we're facing. So thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. Good questions, all. Any other committee
members or Directors who have questions for Mr. MacLeod?
All right. I will note one thing. If you refer back to packet page 68, which is slide number 14 in your
presentation. And you don't need to pull it up, but I just say that for the sake of the record. It is important to
remember that the Board established the FISA, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account. It is a Board
creation. It was not created by the General Assembly of Colorado. But the General Assembly does not
always recall that, viz the fact that we had a bill passed that referenced how the Board was to prioritize
expenditures from FISA. So it is important to understand that getting that information out is beneficial. Thank
you very much for all of that information.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, the next two discussion items do not have an accompanying board report
tonight. I'll pause so you can cheer. These are items that are enumerated in our committee work plan. And
so it is incumbent upon us to address these items in our committee meeting tonight.
Now, the first of these two items, which is the third discussion item, is an update on our draft budget
framework. And then the last one is an update regarding ongoing conversations related to an RTD return
on investment dashboard item. As your Committee Chair, I will be introducing both of these items now,
providing you with an update and facilitating any subsequent discussion by the committee and the other
Directors present.
So first, regarding seeing the draft budget framework. In April, we received an update from CFO MacLeod
related to recommendations from our internal auditors as to how the RTD budget is presented for approval
by this board. This item is back before us tonight so that I can share an update on that work.
The Chair is informed by our staff that the modified budget framework is not yet prepared. When we drafted
the work plan back in February, we all reasonably believed that the staff would have adequate time by June
to give us an outline for a revised budget framework. I'm informed by staff that despite their best efforts,
they're not yet in a position to present that information to us tonight, as originally scheduled in our work
plan.
Now, please recall, and we've mentioned this several times in the past, when we drafted and approved our
various committee work plans, we all agreed that these were going to be fluid and subject to modification
as circumstances dictated. We see that need presented tonight.

So rather than just striking the agenda item and pretending that it's not in our work plan, your Chair and
your Vice Chair instructed staff that we would raise the matter tonight in an open meeting and provide you
with this information and give you the opportunity to ask questions or to make comments. If you feel so
inclined. This, like the opportunity I gave you before to leave, this is that opportunity. So I will ask, first of
all, Mr. McLeod, is there anything that you would like to say at this time to supplement or annotate the
comments by the Chair?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you. You covered it. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right. Any committee members or directors who would like to add anything
relative to this third discussion item? Seeing none, we'll proceed to our final discussion item on this
evening's agenda, and that relates to an update on the progress of the RTD return on investment dashboard
elements and framework.
Now, we have discussed this concept several times as a board over the past few months in this meeting
and in other meetings. You will recall that at our retreat in February, we reviewed the fact that five years
ago, 2019, our then General Manager pulled together relevant information regarding how much sales and
use tax revenue was derived from each county in the RTD together with an estimate of what was the
approximate cost of services provided to each county.
This was an attempt to discern what might be called a return on investment for each county relative to the
sales and use taxes that they paid and to respond to complaints by some counties that they were not
receiving what they considered their fair share. Now, whether or not that was a good or even a valid
measure, it was our then General Manager's best effort at responding to these complaints that we were all
hearing.
At the retreat, we discussed the ability and the advisability to update that ROI measure. We assigned it to
the Finance Committee for further consideration and action. We discussed this again at last month's
committee meeting. At that time, our General Manager CEO raised a very valid concern that this committee
was exploring the creation of what could fairly be called another performance dashboard item without going
through the Performance Committee. That was a relevant and salient observation.
Specifically, if we're going to design a performance metric, and certainly ROI is a classic performance
metric, then it should be designed by the Performance Committee, which is charged with such matters.
Therefore, your Chair and your Vice Chair, both of whom sit on the Performance Committee, come before
you tonight to respectfully suggest that this issue of an ROI metric should be removed from this committee's
work plan and reassigned to the Performance Committee.
Now, this was discussed by us in yesterday's Performance Committee meeting, and that committee, which
is chaired by First Chair Catlin, is prepared to proceed in that manner. Your Chair and your Vice Chair
wanted to bring this before you tonight to seek your concurrence in this approach and to amend our
committee's work plan accordingly.
So we welcome your discussion now for anyone who would like to ask a question or make a comment
relative to moving the ROI metric from the Finance and Planning Committee Work Plan to the Performance
Committee Work Plan. Please indicate if you'd like to step in on this. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I was present at the Performance Committee when this was brought
up, and I didn't know if it would be helpful if you wanted to comment on how the ROI was somewhat already
incorporated, just for the record.
And then I also wanted to ask just for clarification. Could this committee make an informal recommendation
to the Performance Committee as to what we would like to see, how we would measure ROI, or what we
might want to see in a dashboard? Just recognizing that our committees of record are supposed to be
specialty committees and we definitely spent time on this during the Board retreat. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. As to the second question first, I don't know that it's productive for
the committee to attempt to take a committee stance. But every committee member, and for that matter,
every Board member, is invited to participate in the Performance Committee meetings, and they have the
opportunity to speak. And I think recommendations and suggestions are appropriate and could be
considered. And I'll recognize the Performance Committee Chair in just a moment.
As to the first element of your question, how is this, in some respects already incorporated? If you look at
the performance dashboard, which is on the RTD website, I think you'll see a number of things that address
some of the elements of that. I don't know that they address it specifically as it was originally crafted back
in 2019, but I think that the Performance Committee is perfectly capable of addressing and synthesizing
available data to produce useful information. That having been said, Performance Committee Chair Caitlin,
you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You already referenced the performance dashboard, and we as
the Performance Committee are welcoming input and suggestions on KPIs or other metrics that you would
like to see in that performance dashboard. So that's all I had to say. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I take it that your comment might have superseded the
observation that Second Vice Chair Guissinger was going to make?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Any further discussion relative to the
removal of the ROI metric from this committee's work plan and assigning it over to the Performance
Committee work plan?
Hearing none, thank you all for letting me take the time to lay the table out on that one and give you some
further background. And so let it be written, so let it be done.
We turn now to other matters. Let me ask, are there any other matters that any committee member would
like to address at this point in time? Seeing none, are there any other matters that any director who is not
a member of the committee would like to address at this time?
The chair will note, for the sake of the record, that you have received while we've been in this meeting an
email from Board Executive Manager Kroll that was received by him from RTD Director Natalie Minton.
Former Director Minton actually showed up at Blake Street, assuming that she could speak at the meeting,
not realizing that these meetings continue for a time to be held only virtually rather than in person.
And for the sake of the record, I promised her, because I worked with her well for a number of years, that
we would reference in this meeting that she had submitted an email which is in opposition to the TABOR

election ballot issue at the election. And so you can look at her email at your convenience. And she may
well be present at the board meeting on this matter, but I wanted to bring that to your attention.
All right. I see no other matters being raised by any committee member or by a director. Therefore, let me
point out that our next meeting date is scheduled for Tuesday, July 16, 2024. That meeting of the Finance
and Planning Committee on the 16th of July will have us, pursuant to our work plan, potentially act on
recommendations regarding the Build America Bonds, as to which you heard a presentation earlier this
evening, and the Zero Fare For Youth. And also relative to zero fares for National Vote Early Day and
Election Day.
So that's just a preview of some of the things that are coming up. Likewise, we are also set pursuant to our
work plan to discuss our fiscal policy and our five year financial plan. We just like to give you some coming
attractions so you know what's in store.
Seeing no other discussion, I will now call this meeting adjourned as of 8:34 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
Thank you all very much for your participation, and we hope that you have a wonderful evening. Good night.

From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

Greater Denver Transit <greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com>
Tuesday, June 11, 2024 8:00 AM
RTD Board Office; Jack Kroll; Tai-Shrae Parish
Debra Johnson; RTD General Manager
RTD Finance & Planning Committee Meeting Public Comment - Letter - 11th June 2024
20240611_RTD_FinancePlanning_Letter.pdf

Good morning Jack/ Tai-Shrae,
Please include the attached letter and materials in the transcript/ minutes (as appropriate) for tonight's
night's Finance & Planning Committee meeting. It is submitted as public comment.
Kind Regards,
Richard Bamber
(For and behalf of Greater Denver Transit)
(303) 803-3898
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the
RTD Finance and Planning Committee Meeting, June 11th, 2024.
June 11th, 2023
Doug Tisdale, RTD Finance and Planning Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Potential Ballot Recommended Action (TABOR DeBrucing)
Dear Chair Tisdale,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) is in support of an RTD sponsored ballot measure that will allow the agency to
Debruce and be free of Colorado Taxpayer's Bill of Rights (TABOR) revenue restrictions in perpetuity.
Lifting the revenue restrictions imposed by TABOR will empower RTD to address the growing transportation
demands, invest in essential infrastructure projects, enhance service quality, and contribute to the overall
economic and environmental health of the region. As the Denver Metro area continues to expand, ensuring
that RTD has the financial capability to meet these challenges is not just beneficial but necessary for the
region's future prosperity.
Therefore GDT urges all directors on the committee to vote Yes on an RTD sponsored ballot measure that
will allow the agency to Debruce. We thank you for all you do.
Best Regards,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

