1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, November 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 8:41 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
8:40 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

8:39 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Away

8:39 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

8:39 PM
8:40 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

8:39 PM
8:40 PM
8:40 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

8:40 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:40 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:39 PM
8:39 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Robert Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Lee Cryer, Paul Deeley, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Amy Ford, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Chris Barker, Tim Biolchini, Jeff Boerma, Torie Brazitis, Damian Carey,
Chris Cramer, ZJ Czupor, Jane Donovan, Dale Ekberg, Larry Gallego,
Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Bruce Hamon, Erik Hansen, Lauren
Hartman, Matthew Helfant, Dale Honor, Thomas Howell, Tim Kamper,
Joseph Kneib, Rob Larsen, Anders Lindgren, Krista Mann, Jon
Moellenberg, Nick Moller, Susan Monard, Jena Montgomery, Jim
Paulmeno, Dan Pearsall, Mike Peek, Randy Pierce, Shawn Plichta,
James Price, Maxine Pryor, Gene Putman, Joe Reed, Christian Reitter,
Jacob Riger, Greg Ritke, Ted Rutledge, Ryan Seacrist, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Alan Sielaff, Marta Sipeki, Lindsey Smith,
Karen Stuart, Brook Svoboda, Ravi Swamy, Steve Taylor, Catherine
Teutsch, Lorae Tracy, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Enrique Vera, Jeff
Vera, Christen Villalobos, Roger Wilson, Libby Winter

B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Center TOD Pilot Resolution
Bill Sirois greeted the Board and reviewed the history of the Federal Center
TOD Pilot Resolution. Mr. Sirois explained that RTD initiated a process with
the City of Lakewood (Lakewood) and General Services Administration
(GSA) back in 2010 with a goal of looking at a comprehensive development
plan that would include RTD property at the Federal Center as well as GSA
property which GSA intended to dispose of for private development. The
area under consideration is the area north of RTD’s platform.
Mr. Sirois reported that the City of Lakewood has always intended to buy
this GSA property and they are currently in the process of negotiating terms.
The City of Lakewood would like to release a solicitation for a master
developer. Staff has worked extensively with Lakewood for almost a year
on this solicitation and will also be a part of the selection process. This
Resolution offers a way for RTD to show our commitment to the project for
Lakewood and the development community. Some of the highlights do
include the TOC concept and pilot program. Mr. Sirois shared that any

development deal negotiated would be brought before the Board for final
approval. The Board was not currently voting on a development deal but
rather voting on the concept of moving forward with getting a solicitation for
a master developer.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 26th,
2013 Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska inquired if there was a master developer in
mind. Bill Sirois shared there have been discussions with
developers but that staff does not have a specific developer in
mind. Staff wants to go through RTD’s procurement process
to get the best candidate for the vision that both the City of
Lakewood and RTD have for the specific area.
Director Folska asked for clarification from Mr. Sirois when he
previously talked about federal monies. She questioned if he
was referring to FTA funds. Mr. Sirois confirmed that was
correct.
Director Folska noted that she does not have a problem with
the term TOC other than she thinks it should refer to
pedestrian oriented communities and would like the Board to
consider that moving forward.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Boundary Mapping Contract Option - Farnsworth Group
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to exercise a two-year contract option to
Farnsworth Group for an extension of the existing boundary mapping
contract through 2015 in an amount not to exceed $70,900 in 2014 and

$72,700 for 2015 which would make the total contract amount, including
past year amounts, $438,700.
Motion:

Director Folska make the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 26th,
2013 Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter reviewed with the Board that in late
2009, RTD selected the Farnsworth Group to provide
boundary mapping services. As articulated in the
Board Report, some of the key things the Farnsworth
Group does are keep track of RTD’s district boundaries
to determine who should pay for parking and RTD sales
and use tax and with any redistricting or annexations.
Staff has found Farnsworth Group to be very
responsive, effective, and they were the lowest/best
value bidder at the time of their initial solicitation.
Staff recommends that the Board approve exercising
their 4th/5th option years; after those years RTD would
need to re-bid but staff is very pleased with their
services to date.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

D. Next Meeting Date - December 3, 2013
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters

 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

