1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, November 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Federal Center TOD Pilot Resolution
• Approval of Boundary Mapping Contract Option - Farnsworth Group
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - December 3, 2013
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: October 30, 2013

From:

William C C. Van Meter,Assistant General
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

October 22, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 5, 2013

Subject:

Federal Center TOD Pilot Resolution

Resolution

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Resolution NO. ______
Series of 2013

SUPPORT OF LAKEWOOD MASTER DEVELOPER SOLICITATION FOR FEDERAL
CENTER TOD PILOT
Whereas, the RTD Board adopted a revised Strategic Plan for TOD in 2010 that supports the creation of transit
oriented communities to increase ridership, enhance the rider experience and support the creation of livable communities;
and
Whereas, RTD established the TOD Pilot Program in 2010, which includes the Federal Center Station, to proactively
pursue the development of transit oriented communities; and
Whereas, in 2012, RTD established TOD Design Criteria to implement transit oriented communities by promoting the
integration of development and transit through specific design solutions; and
Whereas, RTD, the General Services Administration (GSA), and the City of Lakewood (Lakewood) have been
working cooperatively since 2010 to develop a coordinated approach to development on RTD and GSA land at the
Federal Center; and
Whereas, RTD owns two parcels at the Federal Center station that can assist in realizing a transit-oriented community
together with the GSA parcel.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that:
RTD supports a comprehensive and coordinated approach to development of both GSA and RTD land near the station
to implement RTD’s and Lakewood’s collective vision for a transit oriented community.
RTD supports the release of a developer solicitation by Lakewood to select a master developer to implement the
vision for a transit oriented community at the Federal Center station on both RTD and GSA properties.
RTD supports reconfiguring its property, consolidating parking, and if excess property results disposing of excess
property and reinvesting the value of RTD’s property at the Federal Center Station (subject to FTA approval) into station
supportive infrastructure such as structured parking and pedestrian access improvements.
RTD supports the pursuit of regional, state, and federal grant funds to help implement the vision for a transit oriented
community at the Federal Center.
The RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and his designees to negotiate with the GSA, Lakewood
and potential developers regarding RTD participation in a transit oriented community at the Federal Center and to present
to the board for approval proposal(s) regarding the transfer, lease or other encumbrance of RTD property in furtherance of
such development.

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the 26th day of
November, 2013.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Lorraine Anderson
Chair

Bruce Daly
Secretary

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

October 31, 2013

Subject:

Approval of Boundary Mapping Contract Option
- Farnsworth Group

Assistant

Date: October 30, 2013
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: November 5, 2013

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to exercise a two-year
contract option to Farnsworth Group for an extension of the existing boundary mapping contract through
2015 in an amount not to exceed $70,900 in 2014 and $72,700 for 2015 which would make the total
contract amount, including past year amounts, $438,700.
BACKGROUND
The contract was awarded to Farnsworth Group in late 2009 following a competitive bid of 5 submitted
proposals. Farnsworth provides RTD with boundary mapping services. These services include tracking
annexations by jurisdictions along the District’s boundaries, and the corresponding changes to the
respective Director Districts, as well as ensuring RTD is up to date with the appropriate precinct rolls by
county for each Director District.
The contract included five option years; this requested action would be to exercise the fourth and fifthyear options. The Contract Not-To-Exceed amount for 2014 is $70,900 and for 2015 it is $72,700 for a
total of $143,600 for the two-year period.
DISCUSSION
The contract support is critical to RTD so that staff is able to maintain an accurate, up-to-date boundary
map which allows RTD to determine which residents and businesses are in or out of the District thereby
assuring accurate RTD’s sales tax collections. Also, the boundary map is used to determine who should
be awarded in-District parking privileges and who should be required to pay out-of-District rates.
Additionally, counties within the District often modify precinct boundaries. It is imperative for RTD to
have the most up-to-date precinct boundaries whenever a general or special election is required so that
RTD can certify the precinct list for the respective Director District.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Cost to the District to exercise the option from Farnsworth Group is for an amount not to exceed
$70,900 in 2014 and $72,700 in 2015 for a total of $143,600 over the two-year period. Sufficient
funding has been included in the Planning 2014 expense budget for the 2014. Funding for 2015 will be
included in the Planning 2015 expense budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute
all documents necessary to exercise a two-year contract option to Farnsworth Group for an
extension of the existing boundary mapping contract through 2015 in an amount not to exceed

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2

$70,900 in 2014 and $72,700 for 2015 which would make the total contract amount, including
past year amounts, $438,700.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not approve the option to extend the contract with
Farnsworth Group. This action is not recommended for the following reasons:
i.
RTD will not be able to determine when annexations have occurred by local jurisdictions
along the District boundary and will thereby lose sales taxes generated in newly annexed
areas; and
ii.
RTD will not be able to accurately determine who should be awarded in-District parking
privileges and who should be required to pay out-of-District rates; and
iii.
RTD will not have an accurate list of County precincts and will not be able to certify
precinct lists for Director Districts for regularly scheduled or special elections thereby
compromising the election process.

Prepared by:
Chris Quinn, Project Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

