Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
March 31, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Kent Bagley
Director, District H

Status
Remote
Present
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM
5:24 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:12 PM
5:30 PM
5:32 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:27 PM
5:09 PM
5:27 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:32 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:24 PM

Director Anderson participated via telephone. Director Solano arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, Ignacio CorreaOrtiz, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, Dave Genova,
Mike Gil, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Janet Huhn, Scott Jones, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus,
Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk
Strand, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Mike Turner, Phil Washington

Others Present:

II.

George Delaney, John Desmond, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley, Tracey Williams

16th Street Mall Discussion (Rick Clarke)
Henry Stopplecamp, Sr. Manager of Engineering introduced Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, and Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. He recognized in the audience John Desmond, Executive Vice President of
Downtown Environment at the Denver Downtown Partnership (DDP) and George Delaney,
Chief Operations Officer for City and County of Denver’s Department of Public Works
(Denver). Henry Stopplecamp said both John Desmond and George Delaney could provide
insight into the discussion on behalf of their organizations.
Henry Stopplecamp reviewed the 16th Street Mall presentation included in the Study
Session Agenda Packet for March 31, 2015. He said the presentation would cover the
history of the Mall: where it was, where we are, and where we are going.
Henry Stopplecamp pointed out that prior to the Mall, 16th Street was packed wall to wall
with buses. He noted that once the Mall was completed there were almost immediate
problems with the pavers. Bruce Abel added that the Mall Shuttle is a continuation of
passengers’ trips; the Mall Shuttle intercepts trips from the north at Denver Union Station
(originally Market Street Station) and trips from the south at Civic Center Station,
removing those regional buses from downtown traffic. Jessie Carter said that the Mall
Shuttle has 45,000 weekday boardings, 24,000 Saturday boardings, and 19,000 Sunday
boardings.
Henry Stopplecamp recognized Stan Szabelak, Engineering Project Manager; Cory Granrud,
Park-n-Ride Design Manager; and Jeff Cluphf, Park-n-Ride Construction Manager as the
main staff who works with the Mall.
Henry Stopplecamp ended the presentation noting the Mall’s current projects:
 Ongoing maintenance - He noted that the average maintenance spending is $1
million. The total in 2014 was $1.5 million. The City and County of Denver will
pay 30% up to $300,000.
 Reconstruction project of 3.5 blocks – RTD received a Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) grant for $8 million with a local match shared by RTD,
Denver, and DDP of $2 million for a total of $10 million for reconstruction and
maintenance.
He added that looking forward to the new line openings, the over 40 bus routes that
currently intersect downtown, and the buses that arrive and depart from both Denver

Union Station and Civic Center Station, the Mall will have even more value for connecting
passengers.
Chair Sisk encouraged the Directors to use the Study Session to learn about the Mall by
asking questions to staff and the Denver and DDP representatives.
Director Folska reminded the Directors and Staff to please send any meeting materials
electronically ahead of time so she can be prepared for the meeting with all the pertinent
information.
Director Lasater wondered what happened in 1987 for RTD to take over the maintenance
of the transit lanes when the original contract had Denver as the responsible party. Henry
Stopplecamp replied that it was an agreement between RTD and Denver. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, added that the agreement was part of a settlement with I.M. Pei. RTD
agreed to receive the funds and take care of the transit way maintenance. That was the
fund that expired in 2012 leading to a new maintenance agreement. She added that all
we currently have is the agreement, but she thinks maybe RTD thought it was a good deal
at the time. Henry Stopplecamp said that we have the decisions that were made and it is
up to the current leadership to decide how to move forward. George Delaney agreed that
in the settlement the money would go to RTD and RTD would then take care of the transit
lanes. He concurred that at the time RTD probably thought this to be a good deal.
Director Lasater expressed that he is wrestling with understanding why the 1987
agreement was presented in a way that implied RTD has always been responsible for the
maintenance.
Director Lubow asked for confirmation that a concrete transit way would be cheaper to
maintain than the granite transit way. Henry Stopplecamp confirmed that was correct.
Director Lubow asked what stopped RTD from replacing the transit way. Marla Lien
replied that the transit way is part of the Mall, which does not belong to RTD. Henry
Stopplecamp added that the transit way is a city street. He believes Denver is willing to
look at alternatives; however, there is a historic issue and a 2012 FTA grant to replace the
mall in kind. John Desmond explained that in 2009-2010 there was an extensive
collaborative public process. The conclusion of that 2 year process was a community
consensus to rebuild the transit lanes in granite. Director Lubow asked Henry
Stopplecamp to summarize the cost difference between concrete and granite for
replacement and maintenance. Henry Stopplecamp said that it costs about $1.5 million to
repair a block of transit lanes with the granite pavers. The Mall has 12.5 blocks, so that
would be a cost of about $20 million. He added that some blocks have had to be replaced
5 times in the span of 10 years. He said that the granite is not holding up and that
maintenance crews are out on the Mall 7 days a week. Henry Stopplecamp noted that
gray concrete would cost $400,000 per block to install on the transit ways, $700,000 for

stylized concrete to replicate the current design. George Delaney added that Denver
estimates $5,000 a year per lane per mile for maintenance, estimating that the
maintenance of the Mall transit ways would be a little over $10,000 annually for both
lanes. Henry Stopplecamp emphasized that these numbers are not backed up by an
official design, so they could be higher or lower. Director Lubow pointed out that
comparatively the cost of concrete is nothing when compared to the cost of granite. She
asked if she heard correctly that Denver was looking at alternative materials as well.
George Delaney replied that Denver has looked at many options; yet at the end of the day
the community consensus was to keep the granite pavers. He added that he was not sure
what direction Denver would take.
Director Walker wondered what other entities needed to take action in order to make a
decision on the Mall. Henry Stopplecamp said that it is a city street so the main decision
would come from Denver. George Delaney said that changing from granite to concrete
could jeopardize the $10 million FTA grant awarded to replace the pavers. He noted that
Mayor Hancock is aware of the community consensus and has asked staff to keep moving
in that direction. Henry Stopplecamp clarified that the Federal grant was for $8 million
and that the other $2 million was a local match. He pointed out that RTD and Denver
could go back and ask the FTA a “what if?” regarding switching to concrete knowing that
the reply could go either way. Staff is working under the 2012 recommendation approved
by the Board to replace the pavers. Director Walker said that from his perspective it
seems like the historical importance of the Mall lies on the design, not the material. He
added that he was in favor of starting the conversation with the FTA or any other
appropriate entities. George Delaney noted that Denver will replace the intersections in
concrete. The sidewalks, medians, water fountains, etc., will remain granite pavers.
Director Francone asked if the 2012 Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) articulated who
maintains the transit way. Marla Lien answered that it designates RTD to maintain the
transit way and Denver to contribute towards maintenance. Director Francone wondered
if staff had an idea of the lifetime of concrete lanes. George Delaney said that Denver
estimates the lifetime of concrete to be 30 years. Director Francone inquired regarding
safety concerns of granite versus concrete. She said that from personal experience the
granite could be a bit dicey when wet. Bruce Abel replied that an advantage to concrete
would be better traction in wet weather. He added that he would not call it a safety
issue.
Director Hoy restated that where we are today is that the community consensus is granite
and RTD decided to take responsibility for the maintenance. He added that if desired,
there was enough money to replace the transit lanes in concrete through the FTA grant
and local match. He wondered what it would take to replace the transit lanes in a
concrete that replicates the current design. Henry Stopplecamp confirmed that there was

almost enough money to do so. He added that staff has looked at stamped concrete,
even having a presentation a couple of weeks ago exploring that option. This would
involve mixing granite in the top layer and scoring it to make it look like stones. There will
be another meeting early next month to keep exploring this option. Director Hoy
wondered, since Denver is reconstructing intersections, if maybe one of the intersections
could be a test area of the stamped concrete. He said that this may be a way to explore
durability and community reaction.
Director Solano said that he has spoken with various companies that could pre-make
stamped slabs of concrete and deliver them instead of having to pour on the street. He
wondered if that was a real possibility. Henry Stopplecamp said that it would be possible.
The big issue is preparing the location and anchoring the 12 feet slabs unto the existing
system. He said much of the existing infrastructure would need to be removed. Director
Solano encouraged the staff and Directors to consider the short term versus the long term.
He said that it may cost more to switch to concrete now, but in the long run there will be
savings.
Director James said he is pleased this conversation is going on. He recalled joining the
Mall’s steering committee 5 years ago. He finds all the components (historic, Denver,
FTA, cost effectiveness) fascinating. He thanked staff for examining the possibilities that
include replicating the design. He exhorted staff to work with stakeholders to reopen the
conversation and process. Chair Sisk reminded the Directors that there are no motions to
be made during a Study Session but he trusts that staff received the message. Phil
Washington added that staff is prepared to do that.
Director Bagley inquired how much of the current FTA grant has been spent. Henry
Stopplecamp replied that a little over $1 million has been spent. Director Bagley reminded
the Directors that there is a process to go through, which includes exploring thoughts with
Denver, conversations with Historic Denver, asking the FTA about terminating further
work and/or reusing the grant for a different purpose, restarting the
collaborative/community process from 5 years ago, among others. He said that the
process would take a minimum of 6-12 months. Director Bagley emphasized that this is
not an RTD Board decision, but a decision of all the entities involved, which makes the
process time consuming. Henry Stopplecamp agreed with the timeframe explained by
Director Bagley. Henry Stopplecamp said that the conversation with the FTA has to be
immediate. He said he would follow up with partners with the goal of achieving a
sustainable 16th Street Transit Way. Phil Washington added that a case to the FTA is
always stronger if presented with partners and a formal plan.
Chair Sisk thanked the representatives from Denver and the DDP for attending the Study
Session. He encouraged the Directors and staff to not be stopped by the current FTA

grant when seeking sustainable options for the Mall. He emphasized the need for
cooperation when maintaining the whole Mall: transit ways, median, and sidewalks. He
said that RTD has the fiduciary need to look at the Mall maintenance from a long term
perspective. He noted that he is in favor of working with the FTA and stakeholders to
work a plan that would make sense for 2015.
Director Anderson shared that this is a great opportunity to work with our partners in
Denver. She agreed with Chair Sisk in the need for sensitivity. She mentioned that she
has lived in the Denver area all her life and understands how important the historical
aspect is. Director Anderson said that a great case can be made regarding something
more durable and less expensive. She encouraged the staff and Board to work
cooperatively with Denver and the Mall stakeholders. She hopes that the FTA will
recognize the group effort.
Director Tobiassen asked George Delaney what Denver’s long term vision is for the Mall.
George Delaney replied that he has not been part of all the conversations. He suggested
that perhaps Brad Buchanan, Director of Denver’s Department of Community Planning and
Development, would have a better understanding of the discussions that have been going
on. Henry Stopplecamp added that staff has been working with Denver in the revisioning
process. He said that RTD has raised our concerns. There will be a meeting next week
which will hopefully address those concerns. He stressed that RTD’s priority is its
patrons.
Director Menten noted that regarding the conversation to be had with the FTA, the two
main phrases she heard were “in kind” and “sustainability”. She said that with the “in
kind” aspect we would probably be fine because the transit way will still remain a bus
transit way. The “sustainability” aspect is different because obviously the granite is
proving to not be sustainable. She hopes the FTA would be thrilled with a better
sustainability plan. Henry Stopplecamp said that staff hopes for the same. He added that
in the application staff had to explain the sustainability aspect on the maintenance process
(cleaning, polishing the bottom of the pavers, reset them) and explain that if there is no
work done the Mall would fall apart. Director Menten asked where the Fixed Guide
funding went to. Marla Lien clarified that there are two types of funding: the FTA grant
for capital funding and the Fixed Guideway Modernization Fund. The latter is received on
a recurring basis. Henry Stopplecamp replied that the Fixed Guideway Modernization
Fund, which amounts to about $9 million annually, goes to RTD operations.
Director Menten mentioned that Director Walker had shown her pictures of the Nicollet
Mall in Minneapolis. He shared with her about different accidents that have happened at
the Nicollet Mall due to traffic. She wondered how many incidents have happened on the
Mall because of people not knowing they are walking into transit ways. Bruce Abel replied

that pedestrian/traffic incidents on the Mall are relatively low. He added that of course
anything for safety would be an improvement.
Director Walker said that he lived in Minneapolis in the 1980’s. He noted that the area
has changed drastically. He pointed out that the Nicollet Mall and the 16th Street Mall are
different. He asked if the condition of the concrete base of the Mall is in good shape.
Henry Stopplecamp said that a test study a couple years ago showed that the concrete
base was in good shape. Director Walker expressed that this is an opportunity to do
something good and partner with the other stakeholders. He hopes the other
stakeholders also see this in the same way. He added that the public is not “our”
customers or “their” customers; we are all one big happy family.
Director James acknowledged the DDP’s encouragement of economic development on the
Mall. He said that revisiting the sustainability conversation could be an opportunity to
stimulate private sector investment and the Mall’s economy. He noted that the
conversation needs to include both maintenance and capital improvements. He reminded
the Directors that the Mall is somewhat divided into two: transit way and
sidewalks/median. Director James asked what kind of window RTD has in the FTA grant
schedule to talk about possible changes. Henry Stopplecamp replied that RTD has put out
a bid for reconstruction following the current maintenance guidelines. The reconstruction
will only be for the transit lanes. The Board approved the IGA regarding funding for the
reconstruction of the transit lanes. The goal is to have a contract set by June. Staff
would like to continue this process while simultaneously exploring options with the FTA.
He added that if the current plan was put on hold there would be the risk of losing the
construction season and no work at all would be done on the Mall. Director James agreed
with staff’s plan.
Director Folska confirmed that the granite transit lanes start on the west side of Broadway
and end on the east side of Market Street. She asked if there were plans to extend the
granite and/or granite look towards Chestnut Place. Henry Stopplecamp said that RTD
does not have that in our plans. John Desmond said that the area west of Market Street
was added in 1992. It is a mixture of sandstone and concrete with 3 lanes. There are
unfunded plans to widen the sidewalks in that area, but Denver has no plans to extend the
granite or rebuild the concrete at this time. He added that the Downtown Denver Business
Improvement District (DDBI) takes care of maintaining the Mall, including cleaning and
snow removal of the transit way.
Director Folska asked if I.M. Pei was fired from the original contract. John Desmond
replied that after the original design I. M. Pei was not hired again. Laurie Ollen, who
worked with I. M. Pei on the original design, was hired as a consultant later on.

Director Solano wondered if there are any records of all slip and fall incidents on the Mall.
Marla Lien replied that RTD would not be aware of such incidents since it is not our street
therefore we would not be notified. Director Solano asked if Denver could provide that
information. George Delaney replied that he could ask but he was not sure if Denver has
such record. Director Solano said that if the information does exist it would be helpful to
have it in graph form.
John Desmond clarified that the DDBI is managed by the DDP and it is not part of Historic
Denver.
Director Menten wondered if there was any feedback from business owners along the Mall
regarding the shuttles driving shoppers away from their shops. She asked about the
possibility of the shuttle stopping every three blocks allowing people to walk a bit further
and do stop at various shops along their walk. John Desmond said that the jury is out on
that topic. Stops at every intersection and stops every so many intersections both have
pros and cons. He added that this is one of the topics being studied by DDP’s current
study of Downtown Denver. Director Menten asked John Desmond when DDP is
expecting the results of the current study. John Desmond replied that they should have
the recommendations in the next few months. Director Menten asked DDP to share their
recommendations with the RTD Directors. She asked staff to give an update of the
conversation of the Study Session to Historic Denver as a heads up since there are no
representatives present.
Phil Washington suggested looking at the financial impact of the Mall Shuttle stoppage of
2006 to study the effects of the Mall Shuttle. The mall is 12% of RTD’s total ridership.
Not having that ridership would impact the Federal funding formula. Bruce Abel added
that both Engineering and Bus Operations are in conversations with Denver about the
transit on the Mall. He noted that there are a high number of wheel chair boardings on the
Mall Ride. Jessie Carter confirmed that there are about 230 wheelchair boardings per
weekday.
Director Anderson asked to not consider changing the stops on the Mall. She said it
would be inconsiderate to our passengers to do so. She could not agree more with taking
care of those who cannot walk or even ride their bicycles on the Mall.
Director Folska confirmed that it costs about $11.8 million to operate the Mall Shuttle,
with $9 million provided by Federal funding. She asked who provided the difference.
Bruce Abel replied that the rest of the funding comes from the RTD general fund and the
Sales & Use Tax. Director Folska asked about the cost of operating the Free Metro Ride.
Bruce Abel answered that the 2014 allocation model has not been set. He added that the
cost of vehicles and the capital improvements to start operating the Free Metro Ride was

about $10 million. Henry Stopplecamp added that the Free Metro Ride only operates on
weekdays during peak hours, so the cost to operate is less than the Mall Shuttle.
Chair Sisk thanked the Directors, staff, and guests for their time and hopes to be in
conversations with all of our partners soon. Henry Stopplecamp told the Directors that he
is available for one on one conversation with more in depth information. He added that he
would keep the Directors updated on upcoming conversations with partners.

III.

Other Matters
Director Hoy informed the Directors that former Director Barry Gore is undergoing intense
treatment for a rare form of lymphoma.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the Study Session at 7:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

