2024-12-10 - Special Board Meeting and
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, good afternoon, everyone. My name is Erik Davidson. For the sake of the
record, I'm the Chair of the RDD Board. And I will now call the Tuesday, December 10 special board meeting
to order. We are convened as of 4:34 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you for your patience as we got
set up to start. I'd respectfully ask everyone who has joined to please mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
For everyone's awareness, the Performance Committee will begin almost immediately following the
adjournment of the special board meeting. The Zoom links for the two meetings are the same. Thank you
for joining us this afternoon. As has been the case, the Board moved to in-person meetings for our monthly
gatherings. However, the committee meetings are still generally held remotely via Zoom. Committee
meetings are audio and video recorded. Those meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, are posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
You can visit rtd-denver.com for those. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page. During tonight's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime
Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would wish to access this service should please send an
email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be translated into Spanish automatically. And anyone who would like
access to a Spanish translation of this meeting can also email the Board Office to request that. I will now
call for the roll. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick. I believe Director Harwick is present from the screen. I'll double-check
in a moment. Director Lewis could not be with us. He is excused absence this afternoon. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I am present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha is also an excused absence this evening. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am present as well. That is 12 directors present,
two with excused absences, those being Director Lewis and Director Ruscha. As a reminder, Director
Dishell's seat in District D is vacant due to his recent resignation. We have a quorum.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the board. As we
have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments go first, followed by those who are
participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is
called. If you have not signed up to speak and would like to do so, you may approach the podium when I
call for any additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand on Zoom, or you can raise your hand by pressing star 9 on the phone. Staff will unmute you
when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, please press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please

bear in mind that by participating in the public participation process, you are being recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, your comments can be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference material for the board, or if any member of the public would
like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office. Speakers, please begin
your remarks by stating your name, and you'll have up to three minutes to provide your comments, and I
will remind you when that has elapsed. I don't have any speakers signed up at this time, so at this time I
will now ask if there's anyone present in person first who desired to speak but did not have the opportunity
to sign up. If so, you may approach the podium, and I will call upon you at that time.
All right, not seeing any, I'm going to ask our Board Office Executive Manager Mr. Jack Kroll, has anyone
raised their virtual hand on Zoom?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson has introduced. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I
see no one present on the Zoom call at this time with their hands raised.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And for the sake of the record, could you please read into the
record as to whether any emailed comments were received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, you all received one emailed comment from a Vincent Diamantine with respect to the
item on the agenda this evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will close
the public participation period at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda as action A.
This is the eighth amendment to the GM CEO Employment Agreement. This is for the Board of Directors
to adopt an eighth amendment to the employment agreement with General Manager and CEO, or GM CEO
Debra A. Johnson, contract, to extend the term of the contract for a period of 18 months through and
including May 8, 2027, as set forth in the attached proposed amendment.
Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Guzman, second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Buzek as the movement, Guzman as the second. I'll start with just some brief
comments around what is presented here for consideration and then open up for any questions or
discussion from directors.
And so as we've pursued this path here, and as I think we're all familiar from what's in the packet, we are
looking at primarily-- the primary change of this eighth amendment to the GM CEO's contract is the timeline
for the term, which now would go through, as described in the motion, May 8, 2027.
There have been some other adjustments that have been made, some of which include solidifying the
performance evaluation framework, which has traditionally changed multiple times and is the subject of
numerous of the GM CEO amendments over the past few years. This contract has, as we're all familiar,
added in the framework itself to help solidify the performance framework and avoid the need to consistently
reinvent the wheel.
The contract has also added to the executive perquisite section of the contract in response to our most
recent compensation analysis and does offer some additional compensation in that regard in the form of a
wellness package around those executive perquisites. As we've talked about numerous times, this board
has pursued a data-driven approach to make sure that we are aligned with compensation studies and
analysis looking at market.
As we recall, we passed a compensation philosophy, which had become quite outdated. I believe it was
around 11 years outdated when we updated that. And in that, we do commit to endeavor to maintain market
competitiveness in the position.
This contract also does then state that the board will endeavor to follow its compensation philosophy, and
there are some other adjustments that are made to the contract with respect to severance period and how
that works during the extension period of the contract.
But this primary change of this is not addressing any of the base compensation. The primary change and
focus on this is extending the General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson's contract through that date in
May 2027. I'd like to thank the Board here for the work to get to this point and for the guidance and work
developing this. I'd like to thank General Manager and CEO Johnson for your work here.
This extension is intended to be offered to you to provide you the additional time to work with this agency
and continue to develop out improvements to operational discipline to RTD. A great deal has changed over
the past couple of years. Those changes are often very difficult to take on. We have seen an increase in
our operational discipline. We have seen improvements to our financial position.
Several-- I believe I'm losing track of time-- A week or two weeks ago, we went through our performance
evaluation, found you to be meeting expectations of the goals set forward, found you to be meeting

expectations on core-based job functionality, and found you to be demonstrating all of the adopted agency
values. So pursuant to this Board's decision that you have met those expectations and are driving important
change that has improved the agency for the better and pursuant to the discussions we have had as a
Board in terms of the terms by which we would want to extend that contract, I am delighted to bring this
recommended action for consideration to my colleagues this evening.
So with that being stated and presenting the item, I will entertain any questions or discussion on the motion
at hand.
All right, seeing no hands raised at this time, I will proceed to a vote. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Abstain.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That is, that will pass with 11 yes votes. We have
one abstention, and we have two excused absent.
Thank you very much for that. We thank the General Manager and CEO for your interest in continuing to
work and pursue the good work at this agency, for continuing to make difficult choices, for continuing to
move courageously as we move RTD into a new phase of development. I thank my colleagues for the
consideration of the measure and for concluding the recommended action.
At this time-- oh, I'm sorry, I may have missed there-- we were joined-- Director Ruscha, are you present?
OK, at this time, thank you, everybody. Are there any other matters to discuss?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: I just wanted to take the opportunity to comment on my abstention. And that is for reasons
previously stated and not for any reasons that have not been previously and publicly stated by me in
meetings, which relate to the time frame of the extension.
I have abstained from that vote, but I want to make it clear it's not a new decision born of anything that
might or might not have happened today, but rather based upon a principled concern as expressed
previously, which rises to the level of an abstention but not necessarily of an expression of opposition. I just
wanted to say that for the sake of the record. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Any other matters to discuss? All right, seeing none, before I
entertain a motion to adjourn, I'll just remind everybody that we are moving directly, using the same Zoom
link, using the room here to move into our Performance Committee, which will be chaired by Performance
Committee Chair Catlin.

So for those of you wishing to attend that, please wait here for a few moments while we switch everything
over. For those on Zoom, you can stay right where you are, and we'll hand the floor off to First Vice Chair
Catlin, Committee Chair Performance. Seeing no other discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved, Buzek.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And hearing Buzek and Whitmore, this meeting will be adjourned as of 4:49 PM
Mountain Standard Time. Thank you very much. Director Catlin will get-PEGGY CATLIN: There we go. Good afternoon. The Tuesday, December 10 Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 4:52 PM, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
The meeting recording, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access
Realtime Translation, also known as CART. [COUGHS] Pardon me. Anyone who would like to access this
service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be
provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access-- who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting
is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis is excused. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am the chair of this committee, Peggy Catlin, and I am present. So, for the record,
I see that we also have Director Rosenthal, Director Ruscha, Director Sloan, Director Whitmore present.
So we have-- and Director Bouquet, I'm sorry. Harwick and Broom. OK, I didn't see their names up there.
There they are. OK, so we have-- thank you all noncommittee members for participating today. I very much
appreciate it, and hopefully this will yield a productive discussion.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. As we have both
in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who are participating
remotely.
For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if
you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and will have up to three minutes to provide
their comments. Executive Board Manager Jack Kroll, are there any speakers signed up?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We have
no persons present who signed up to provide public comment in the building, and there is no one online at
this time who has raised their hand in indication that they would like to provide public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Were there any emailed comments received?
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, no, there were not.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, with no participants in the queue, we will close the public comment period at this
time. There is one discussion item on the agenda, and that is for the performance dashboard walkthrough.
GM CEO Debra A. Johnson and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, will you please present this
item?

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. Sorry, thank you so much, Chair Catlin. I'm joined, as you indicated
during the introduction of this item, with John McKay, the Executive Business Partner. And what we're doing
today is a follow-on conversation as it relates to the October board meeting cycle, whereby this body
adopted agency scorecard metrics.
We are here today to showcase where we are with the dashboard. I want to acknowledge the team that
has been working diligently on this since February of earlier this year. And I also want to note that as we
look at putting various elements together using in-house mechanisms, we are in the process of procuring
a tool for agency performance with data management. That will better enable us to position ourselves to be
more agile and flexible relative to what we're showcasing as it relates to performance metrics. So with that,
I will yield the floor to Mr. McKay, who will take us through the item. Thank you very much.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. Again, John McKay, Executive Business Partner. We're joined
virtually by Ben [INAUDIBLE] from my team, a senior performance analyst. And I just wanted to shout out
the two other folks who've been working on this very diligently. So that's Andrea Zuckerman from the
Communications team and Dennis [INAUDIBLE] from the IT team. They have both been working in the
background to, both, put together the data in the Power BI platform and to post this to the website for your
viewing pleasure here in a second.
So I will attempt to go through the website right now and go over little bits and pieces of it. It's kind of an
awkward format to take questions and comments from online to do this. So we'll try to pause where we can
to highlight things as I'm scrolling through here.
So let me get rid of some windows on my screen here. There we go. So this is the Agency Performance
Scorecard. Let me go back one. So this is our Performance Dashboard. This has been operational on the
RTD website since May of this year.
Right now, there are several of these tiles that are on here. These are all in relation to the Accountability
Committee recommendations, metrics related to the Accountability Committee that were adopted in 2021.
And these were also part of the state audit that was released earlier this year. These are the metrics that
were recommended by the Accountability Committee and that we said that we would post on the website.
That has been done to answer some of the questions from the state auditors as well.
So you'll see we have community engagement. And I won't go through each of the metrics that are posted
here. But these are all individual recommendations from the Accountability Committee that we've agreed
to post on our website. There's also information about financial performance, not necessarily related directly
to the Accountability Committee. This is a place where forums can be located.
We also couch our survey data here. This is our annual customer community employee survey data and
other metrics. And what I want to focus on today is the Agency Performance Scorecard, which is this

bottom-right tile. So this relates to-- as General Manager and CEO Johnson just mentioned, this relates to
the blue agency performance scorecard that was adopted by the Board in October of this year. This is
directly tied to the agency's strategic plan for 2021 through 2026.
And these are the strategic priorities. And each one has a set of metrics located beneath it. Right now,
we're still building out the definition, so we have this lorem ipsum text up here that in the next week or two
we are building out definitions for each of these items. And again, here as well. So this says as of December
2024. I think there's an opportunity for a more fulsome explanation of what's going on in each of these
graphs. But this is essentially what we're looking at going here.
So we have three years of data. This is what we had discussed earlier in a previous Performance
Committee, that most of the data here will have a three-year horizon. Some of them we will only have one
year of data because we've changed the way that we're doing the metrics for the agency. So we'll see here
up at the top, and I'll pause here and take a look at this.
So for the value to the community, this is in response to community survey. So in 2022, 78% of individuals
responding to the community survey felt that RTD brought value to the community. That increased year
over year into 2023 to 84%. 86% was the most recent finding. So this 88% dashed line up at the top here,
in 2021, that was the start of our strategic plan. We did a baseline survey for the agency.
And so this 88% serves as that baseline. 2021, I will say, was sort of an anomalous year data-wise. And so
it may not be the best starting point for us to start looking at some of these data going forward. So there is
an opportunity for adjustment, we can reset the baseline to 2022 year if that's the Board's interest to do so.
And let me go to another data point here. And Ben, if I'm missing anything, please feel free to raise your
hand on the chat, and we'll make sure that we get to.
This is one of those opportunities where it would almost be easier for me to be doing this on a virtual
meeting, rather than sitting here. I'm going to highlight enhanced perception of personal security. I just want
to call this one out specifically. This one was-- the question was, if you're not riding RTD's services any
longer, what is the reason? And 43% of people said that it was because of personal security aboard buses
and trains.
Moving on to customer excellence. Actual on-time performance is listed here, and we show data over the
course of-- Power BI takes a second to load. It takes more than a second to load. So this goes back through
January of 2020. This shows data points over the last three years. And you'll see a huge spike in paratransit
on-time performance starting in about September of last year. It's really encouraging data.
But we can also see that-- this 88.7%, this is an on-time-- this was the internal metric for-- internal goal for
paratransit on-time performance. So you see that since November of last year that we've been well above

the mark. And you can see that over the last 12 months, the rolling average is 90.8% for paratransit ontime performance, which is above the baseline set in 2021.
Again, if it's the Board's desire to do so, we can take a look at what it would look to reset that baseline to
2022, which is more of a typical year operationally. But that's a discussion for a future Performance
Committee possibly. So I'll pause here.
So as I said, these are all the metrics related to the Agency Performance Scorecard. And I'll just bring this
up briefly to refresh everyone's memory. This is the blue scorecard. There is a green scorecard that is used
for internal strategic initiative metrics tracking. But the blue one is the one that was adopted by the Board
in October of 2024.
These were adjusted from the original strategic plan to incorporate some additional metrics and to pose the
questions that were posed by the Performance Committee. How is RTD achieving its vision to be the trusted
leader of mobility? How has RTD delivered value to the community? Et cetera. So I will pause here and
take any questions if anybody wants me to highlight anything in particular on this. This is live on the RTD
website right now. So if anyone wants to take a spin on it, it's available to them right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. Are there any comments or questions from committee members?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have some, but is there more to go?
PEGGY CATLIN: You have some additional materials?
JOHN MCKAY: I do actually. I just wanted to back up one second to the performance dashboard. There
are more metrics that are being fleshed out in real time right now. Within the next week or so, we will have
additional data, additional years of data points on a lot of these additional metrics that we're tracking that
were related to the Accountability Committee. So we should have a broader view, a three-year-plus view
of some of these other metrics as well. And so like I said, that's being built out in real time in the background.
Probably before the end of the year, most of these things will be available.
None of this data was available before the Board set us on this path. There was a communication going
back and forth with the Performance Committee back in, I want to say, September. And we had discussions
with Chair Catlin and Chair Davidson identifying the things that should be posted on this website. And so
it's taken a little bit of time to get some of the background data, some of the historical data that's associated
with these metrics. And that process is nearly complete. But in the next couple of weeks, that should be all
done at this point.

PEGGY CATLIN: Recognizing that you just pulled up a sample of some of these metrics, I guess I would
encourage Directors to take some time to go in and look in detail. But in the meantime, are there any specific
metrics that Mr. McKay did not highlight that you would like to see in more detail tonight?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The speaker-- there are three speakers waiting, but no pictures showing up. So I
don't know. I know I'm one of those. See at the bottom of the screen, it says three speakers-- four speakers
waiting.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, this is odd that it's not appearing. The order we have here is Director Bouquet, Director
Guissinger, Director Tisdale, Director Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: Bouquet, Guissinger.
JACK KROLL: Tisdale then Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, we'll go in that order then.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm noncommittee if you're OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm fine. OK, Director Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair Catlin. I guess if we're on the topic of metrics, could we
open safety by chance?
JOHN MCKAY: Sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Would security fall under that tab as well? Or is security its own tab?
JOHN MCKAY: There is a metric in the Agency Performance Scorecard. So there are metrics related to
safety here and community value and in customer excellence as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Could we open that Enhanced Perception of Personal Security?
JOHN MCKAY: Yes. That was the one that I had highlighted earlier. And this is in relation to the-- let me
go back one click here. This was in relation to the community value survey. Customer excellence survey, I
can open that one as well. So this is Customer Impression of Personal Security aboard vehicles. Like I said,
the other one was in relation to the community survey. That was the survey that we conduct where we get
a random sampling of households within the metro area and send out surveys directly to them. These are
the intercepts of customers aboard bus and rail.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We're on the topic of metrics. I don't want to dive away from it, Director Catlin, but
could I ask another question regarding how this will be talked to our stakeholders? Or would you like to--

PEGGY CATLIN: No. Please go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I guess the question is, then, who is the audience of this dashboard from the
staff's perspective?
JOHN MCKAY: So this is a public-facing dashboard. This is to anyone and everyone. This is available for
the Board in conversations with the constituents, with electeds around the district. This is all pulled directly
from operational data. So it is the most current source that we have available to us, which is why this
performance dashboard is intended to be a one-stop shop for all data. Some of these things were couched
in Board reports previously.
And we heard from external groups that some of those things were difficult to find. And so we wanted to
put it front and center on our website so that people could make one click to get to all of this information.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. Are there active plans to advertise this to our stakeholders?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Thank you, Director Bouquet, for the question. Absolutely.
As Mr. McKay indicated, the teams have been working diligently to pull all the data together. And so it would
be our intent to apprise perhaps via a press advisory, but also through other mechanisms. And I know Mr.
Summers is in the back.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just saw him nodding his head.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Oh, he texted me. Wait a minute. Hold on. Let's see here. Yes, he does have
a news release already planned when this is done in a matter of weeks. And as we work with our
constituencies, apprising them accordingly, there's other mechanisms that we use to communicate
outwardly. We have the read and ride. We have other elements that are featured on our website through
social media posts and things of the like as we go forward.
And just earlier this afternoon, we participated-- when I say we, the Chair of the Board, myself, Mr. Davies,
and then some of you sitting around this table in reference to representation from the General Assembly,
where we were talking about some of these data points, and we're going to be following up through our
lobbyist BBMK because we made commitments to provide data, and we're going to ensure that they are
aware where they can go find this data going forward as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your--

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Actually, thank you. I was going to ask the same thing about communicating this out
so that people know that it's available. So I like to hear there's a strategy. For the record, Director Rosenthal
has joined us in person. So thank you for coming in.
Next, we have Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll answer to that. Thanks, John. I know you've been putting a lot of work in on this. I
spent some time yesterday going through the current dashboard. And so you're adding another section to
what's there. Is that what you're doing?
JOHN MCKAY: So yes, let me back up one. So this is just an additional tile right now in the bottom righthand corner of the existing dashboard. And as of right now, I'm on the website, on the publicly available
website right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think that there's information in our Board briefing documents and other
information that we have that isn't in some of what's up there. And I think it could make-- I hope you'll be
looking at that too, what's there currently, because I think it would make it more usable by people. For
instance, under Ridership, we only have one month of data. And I think what we need to see is, what is that
month last year? What is that month in 2019? And where are we year to date? Some of those things, I think
that's an important piece for the public and for us in terms of making decisions.
Vacancies, just to give you another example, show up under, both, financial data and whatever the other
one is that talks about operation. Yeah, that's ridership. It just shows September. And I hope we can go
back and look at this. I'm happy to sit down because I've spent some time on it and go through some
thoughts. But I think what people want to see is, Where have we been? Where are we now? Where are we
now compared to the past? Where are we now compared to earlier in the year or to budget? I'm not saying
we have to have all of that, but some of that would be helpful.
I think, for instance, vacancies, like I said, shows up in two different places. But for bus, it says this is under
construction. And I think we have pretty good data on that right now, right? You look like you have something
to say.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Yes, Director Guissinger, we do. And to the point that Mr. McKay
was raising, we are building this out with the teams to include that all in one space, recognizing at this
juncture that we don't have a platform. They've been using Power BI. We're pulling from disparate sources
to compile this. We're in the midst of a procurement to have a data management system going forward. So
I just wanted to iterate that because we do have the data independently, and folks are building that into the
system.

And John may not say this, but I will. But just yesterday, in the midst of them preparing for this, we lost
some data. And so with that as a backdrop, the intent is to have all the year-to-year comparisons, as Mr.
McKay said early on, going back to 2021 or 2022, as we look to go into 2025, for three years.
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair, it would depend on the data set as well sometimes. We just don't have the
data available, which is actually what you're looking at here for the ridership. Some of the data was maybe
not quite reliable. So we want to make sure that what we're putting out there is accurate and correct. So
this is among-- these are among the data sets that we're building back out. So as I said, for these other
eight tiles that are on here, so community engagement, customer experience, environmental impact, some
of these things are the data that we're collecting right now so that we'll be able to show a trend line for the
last few years. So bear with us for another couple of weeks here.
And to your point about the Board briefing documents, I would maybe recommend that some of the
information currently housed in the Board briefing documents instead reside here so that it's a one-stop
shop.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would agree with that. And I also think that potentially bringing back that information
to our packets-- certainly not everything in the Board briefing documents. I think we've got to a point with a
previous RTD Director that wanted all of our checkbook information in there. And to me, that's like pages
and pages of information that really isn't necessary.
So trying to figure out how to make this more accessible to us and to the public, I know that's what you're
doing. And so I'm glad to hear that we're going to be looking at past years. And I also think that-- I'm looking
at environmental impact, and right now, it just talks about, I think, our facility energy usage. And you may
have some more of that in the scorecard, but there's a real story to tell there.
And I think it's a marketing story in addition to an information story because what we did with the Ozone
Month and the amount of energy saved of ozone and those sorts of things, what we're doing with, I guess,
less with the youth in terms of environmental. But there may be a story there. And I think just the fact that
we've got the fleet and facilities plan, I know that's very new, but I think that thinking it through, in addition
to decision-making information and public information, what is our story?
And so I'm hoping that we can do some of that. Safety and security is another one. I think the perceptions
of security are good, but talking about-- I think we've made great progress in making our facilities safer,
thinking of Union Station, in particular. But some of the-- I don't know if it's assault data or what exactly we
have. Is that what we have, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may? Yes, so we have different data sets relative to how many contacts that
have been made as it relates for people parking at park and ride lots, that type of data that we have
showcased, RTD PD, our colleagues there have showcased during the Operation Safety and Security

Committee. So we're talking about transferring that information here as we go forward. And that's our
ultimate goal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I like the fact that we're getting a tool that's going to help automate that.
I'm happy to sit down with you in the next few weeks as you get it because I've spent a fair amount of time
on this. But thanks for the work. I think it's starting to fill out and that getting some of that data in will make
it much more usable. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And I would agree. We look forward to seeing what the
next couple of weeks will bring. We appreciate that.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may? So what we can do when we have this built out, because it was our goal
to have this completed before the end of the year, we will send out some correspondence with the link so
everybody can see that going forward, the end product, which is an interim product, recognizing that we're
in the process of procuring, as I indicated, a data management tool.
And John, is that active, the procurement? Yes, so we can't talk too much about that because this is an
active solicitation. But I wanted you all to know that's the intent going forward. And this was the interim step,
with all the team pitching in and building this out. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be great to get a memo.
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JOHN MCKAY: I just wanted to also add that, like I said, the genesis of this request originally came from
the Accountability Committee. And so that serves as the kernel of the information that we post online here.
That's not the end of this. There are other data sets. There is other information that can be housed on this
website. So I just wanted to point that out that these were the things that we started with. There is an
opportunity to continue the conversation with the Performance Committee to determine the other elements
that you might want to see on this website.
And going back one moment, Director Guissinger, to your point about the information going into the packets,
I guess my question is-- so this is live current data. If we were to publish this in the packet, that becomes
stale data. I, again, might recommend that you avoid publishing stale data in a PDF format because this is
a live, readily accessible tool database that anyone can use. So again, this may be a conversation for a
future Performance Committee, but I'm not really sure-- I can't visualize what that would look like on an
ongoing basis when this tool is available 24/7, constantly updated based on the best data that we have
available to us.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. May I?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I think that's great. I guess my thought went to the fact that-- bringing that
up-- and I hear what you're saying. I know that our Chair has been raising some of the data in his Chair's
report in the last few months. And so I think something that we-- we all look at our packets all the time.
The Board briefing documents, like I said, I think there's a lot of good information in that, and I do look at it.
But the fact that we have all of those check things, and that did come from the Board. There's no question.
It was, like I said, a previous Board member. I don't know where the rest of the Board is on that, but I find
that unnecessary.
So I mean, I think we could talk about it. Maybe it's something that we talk about in the Performance
Committee in the future. But when I say put it back in the packet, I'm just thinking, how do we keep this top
of mind and fresh at that time for us making decisions? Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And I would agree the check register was-- I always said,
what are we going to use this information for? But that was in the past. Excuse me. I would like to add, Mr.
McKay, that you mentioned that there are some data that you're not real comfortable with, that it may or
may not be accurate. And rather than just having a void, could you make-- is there some way to maybe
make a statement that that's under verification or trying to make sure that it's as accurate as possible so
that it's not just a blank, that people understand that you're working on it and trying to get it correct and
current? So that would be my comment on some of those data.
JOHN MCKAY: Director, to your point, there is a place on this dashboard where there's additional data that
we could add to describe what's going on. Sometimes if there's a significant dip in ridership or something
like that, there is an opportunity for us to give the public an indicator as to why that's happening. And this
space up here is where we would do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent, I like that. OK. Is that all, Director Guissinger? OK, up next, is Director Tisdale,
please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Last week, I attended the APTA Winter Legislative
Conference in Washington, DC. And I had the opportunity to make remarks there that I think are pertinent
to what we're discussing today relative to performance and a performance dashboard, and specifically as
short.
So I'll just insert into the record here, if I may, the remarks that I made at that ledge conference at Union
Station in DC. If we intend to have an effective and rewarding nonconfrontational relationship with the

Trump Department of Transportation, it is incumbent upon us to be aware of and responsive to the goals
and standards of that administration.
This is neither a challenging nor a novel concept for us as we dealt with it from 2017 through 2021. Our
strong alliance with Jane Williams as the administrator at FTA was successful and mutually respectful, and
it was founded upon the principle that transit agencies should add value to their communities.
From information already available to us, it is apparent that the new administration is looking for deliverables
from transit agencies that are both sensible and measurable. Topping the list are two things that we already
recognize as central to an effective public transportation system, increasing ridership and collecting fares.
It is difficult to make an argument to the government that they should advance us additional funds when we
negligently, if not deliberately, forgo the simple task of requiring riders to remit their fares when using our
systems. The least we can do is shore up our fare collection procedures and make a good-faith showing
that we are contributing what we can while seeking more financial support from the government.
And while some may argue that additional funding from the federal government is necessary in order to
increase ridership, there is no doubt that agencies that can demonstrate increases in ridership will be and
should be looked upon more favorably than agencies that simply give up on the ridership metric in favor of
amorphous and vague social policies.
Just as it was during the first Trump administration, the DOT is a value-added assessor. If we can
demonstrate added value by increasing ridership and by collecting fares, we will be rewarded. I submit it's
that simple.
I'm happy to say there was overwhelming support for my remarks and actually only one voice in opposition
out of the over a hundred transit leaders from across the country who were there. So that leads me to the
question. First of all, can we look at the ridership graph again, please?
We have, as shown here, very limited data presented. But I understand it's a work in progress. I know that
there is more that can be added and, as I hear, more that will be added. That, I submit, is critical to getting
this relationship with the Trump Department of Transportation established so that we can enjoy the
continued very good relations that RTD Denver has experienced with the FTA and with the FRA for our
commuter rail.
So I want to get back to making sure that we all concentrate on that ridership metric and use it as a standard
that we can report and that we can trumpet to all the world so that they understand that we are adding
value. Can you show me a graph on fare evasions?
JOHN MCKAY: I cannot.

DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, it's a trick question. I know. I mean, the answer is no. And the thing
is, that's something that we have already heard from people who are in the Department of Transportation
now and those whom we are told are being nominated to those positions are very interested in. And that's
why at the APTA executive committee and the retreat in Las Vegas a couple of weeks ago, we talked about
fare evasions as being something that we have to show progress on for the reasons that I stated in my
remarks I made in DC.
We have some wonderful charts. I mean, there's perception of equity and so forth. That's all fine and good.
That's terrific. That's great. I think it's wonderful that we do that. But I submit we have to remember we have
some of the true basics that we have to articulate. And to the extent that we can focus on that and add it, I
think we advantage ourselves with all those people who are responsible for giving us a big chunk of money,
which is a big part of what we live on when you look at our budget.
And I will do a shameless plug right now. The APTA Transit Board Members Committee is sponsoring a
board talk live next Tuesday at 4 o'clock on fare evasion. And Paul Smedberg, who was the first vice chair
at WMATA, will be facilitating that discussion for us.
And at our executive council meeting of the TBMs today, we talked about having everybody join in on that.
And I would very much invite all of you to tune in and participate in the Board talk live session that we're
doing next Tuesday at-- and I'm sorry, it's 4:00 PM Eastern. It's 2:00 PM Mountain time when we're doing
this.
And let's just keep our eyes on the prize. Keep our eyes on the prize. Sales tax revenue-- big part of how
we live, sales and use tax. But those federal grants are so important to what we're doing. How do we endear
ourselves, how do we ingratiate ourselves to the administration and convince them that RTD Denver still is
a great transit agency to receive these funds? What do we need to do to convince them?
And as we talked about last week in Washington, ridership and addressing fare evasions is a big part of it.
Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I presume that the announcement from APTA regarding
that 2 o'clock meeting would be posted? OK, thank you. Chair Davidson, please.
JACK KROLL: Just a note on the speaking order. Our system really likes it when Erik speaks, but we
continue to see some bugs in this. Actually, after Chair Davidson is Director Rosenthal. And then I do
believe earlier I saw that Director Ruscha's hand was raised online. So for your awareness, Director Catlin,
I believe the order would be Chair Davidson, Director Rosenthal, Director Ruscha.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We do like looking at Erik's mug, though, so-- all right, Director Davidson,
please.

ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, I'll be Director Davidson 1, I guess, here. Thank you. Thanks for the work and
updates here. Director Tisdale, thanks for the comments. I was just brainstorming what we might even look
at and recalling that in the Board briefing documents, we do see fare revenue trends. And that's also where
we have the-- we're captured our boardings as well. So perhaps there's something that can be gleaned at
the intersection of those and the data. So thanks for the thought.
I'll just-- a couple questions. So I fully understand that the data is a big part of this. And garbage in, we get
garbage out. So, excited to get to a point where we have everything all built out. I know you are too in
pursuing that.
Just curious on this data management system procurement-- is there an aspect of this that includes data
cleansing? I mean, I can imagine even looking historically through Board briefing documents, we have
things in different systems. We've tracked things differently. I'm wondering if you might just share what
efforts are underway. I know there's an interest from directors to see more years in the past, on-time
performance, for example. I think bus has several. And then we go to rail, and there's fewer.
My guess would be that that has a lot to do with either the quality of the data or the availability of the data.
So as we're going through this data management system procurement, are there aspects around that, and
would you mind just kind of speaking to what the data cleanup looks like in addition to the presentation of
it?
JOHN MCKAY: Yeah, thank you very much. So right now, the data on the back end lives in different places
within the organization. And so right now, it's all filtered through a couple of different sources through Power
BI, essentially. But if somebody were to accidentally take a data set or a point of data, that's completely
anomalous. So ridership, if they add another zero on the end of it right now, we don't want that to show up
on our public website. And so that would throw off the graph, change the entire scale of the thing that we're
showing online.
So right now, there are some checks and balances internally to make sure that what gets published is true
and accurate. There is some back end-- we actually did one tech demo earlier today on one of the two
platforms that we're looking at. And it will give you an alert if the data point is outside of the norm. It can
also track not only your goals but difference but above or below the goal. So we can see-- we can tell that
the trend is off if something is weird.
To your point about data cleansing, like you said, the data going in is only-- coming out is only as good as
what goes in. And we will have different teams providing that data through whichever of the platforms that
we eventually go with. They will be in charge of monitoring some of their own data. But then we'll also have
performance analysts to take a look at some of those things internally to make sure that what is being put
out is true and accurate from the data source.

PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does, yeah. Thank you. And if I may, just one other question?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So given that it is disparate systems and disparate teams, which is the nature of the
beast, for things, for example, that are monthly reporting, and there's a number of things that are annual
cadence-- and again, thank you to our CFOs here for the financial metrics that have been added. Tracking
variants over time I think is going to be great. But for those that are monthly, is there a coordinated cadence
that you envision in terms of how those different teams put data together? That already exists, to some
extent, for the Board briefing documents. I would suspect it's kind of similar. But is there any change in
process there, or how are we going to manage the monthly reporting?
JOHN MCKAY: From what I understand, the two software packages that we're looking at-- there's another
demo coming up tomorrow, so I may learn more about this tomorrow. But I believe that the one that we
looked at previously offers sort of an alert or a notification when a data set is due so that the teams
responsible for that will know to publish it to the website. And if it's months in arrears, then they should be
receiving notifications that it's not being posted. And if it's not showing up on the website, we'll have the
opportunity to look at that going forward. It's not like anybody is going to be monitoring it constantly.
But if anybody sees if the ridership data is three months out of date, I have a phone, and people can call
me too.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Thanks, Madam Chair. Thanks, Mr. McKay.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to your team, Mr. McKay, for working on
this important public disclosure tool. And to build on and reiterate what, particularly, Directors Guissinger
and Bouquet pointed out, in regards to the safety issue, to make sure that we are presenting that kind of
data clearly.
As I look at the tiles, I don't see one on safety. That data is buried under community value, and I think it is
of importance enough to where it merits its own spot. And I think when people are looking under safety,
they're like, oh, safety, that means how we-- right, so a safe environment, exactly. So safety is different
from security. As you know, we changed the name of the committee to reflect that.
So what I'm thinking is if we have a separate tile for security and a separate tile for safety. Safety, meaning
this is for our-- make sure there are no incidents and accidents. However, for security, that's how people

feel. And then some of the information that Director Guissinger pointed out would be helpful-- some of the
measures that have been taken, the improvements on the system, but also, I think, the number of officers
that we have.
The increase that we have hired, that's a demonstrated positive over time, how many more we are hiring
internally, and also the numbers of Allied Universal that we have. And I think that's all data that could be
under-- and obviously, we can all have our opinions as to how this thing should look. And I know you're
probably looking at some of those things. But just to offer that that is of such importance to the community
that I think it merits its own tile. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Moving on, Director Ruscha, are you available?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Hi. Can you guys hear me all right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. So I need to put down my phone and turn my camera off so that I
can follow along. The Wi-Fi is a bit spotty here. Madam Chair, I have a couple of questions for Mr. McKay.
Is it OK if I just dialogue briefly for time?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's fine.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So my first question is-- I was looking for the paratransit data, and I know
that you flipped to it, but I can't find it. And I don't see it under accessibility. Could you remind us where that
is? And could we pull that up? I did have a question about how we're measuring that.
JOHN MCKAY: Director, do you mean the service availability or on-time performance? Or what aspect of
paratransit are you looking to see?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I think you might have made a point. If we have those-- so if we have
those metrics spread across different tiles on the website, then it is hard for us to get a holistic grasp on
how we're doing. The one that you had pulled up was on-time performance.
JOHN MCKAY: Go ahead, sorry. So Director Ruscha, one of the data sets that I mentioned that we're still
looking at the data to make sure that it's sound is paratransit on-time performance. Going back to-- one
moment here. I'll try to get to this. Customer excellence. OK, it should be on the screen.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I'm on my phone, so it's small to me. So I'm trying to follow along with
our dashboard-- dashboards, plural, I think, online. And could you just remind me where that is, where this
OTP metric is?

JOHN MCKAY: You bet. It's on the-- from the Performance Dashboard, the bottom-right tile, which is the
Performance Scorecard, the Agency Performance Scorecard. And then go to Customer Excellence. And
it's under Actual On-time Performance. And we say Actual On-time Performance because there is another
metric related to perceived on-time performance.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So as that's loading for me, I just wanted to-- I think, actually, this is a
perfect time to just make a few points actually, while we're doing this. I appreciate the website and this
information. I think from a user standpoint, some of it's still buried and difficult to find.
And I spent some time, and I would not have thought to go down the path that you just told me, Mr. McKay.
So maybe that's also something that our comms department can take a look at just from the user
perspective and from a marketing perspective.
And to that end, I had a couple of questions about our dashboard. And the first is, have we checked to
make sure that this dashboard is ADA accessible? And has that been tested yet?
JOHN MCKAY: Director, I'll have to get back to you on that. But I believe that because it's part of the overall
RTD website that it is accessible at the moment. But don't quote me on that at the moment. I will get back
to you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. I wasn't sure if because we're using for now Microsoft
BI and the way that things are nested if it was accessible, fully accessible to individuals who might use
screen readers or other technology. So it's something I think we should certainly check. And then just back
to my comment about how many clicks it takes to get to information, I think that's also a communications
and accessibility issue as well. So I would appreciate if we just take a look. And again, I see this as a work
in progress.
But to that end, on the on-time paratransit, this is where I have a question about our metrics. And you might
have answered it. But when we calculate on-time performance in this dashboard, not what we report to the
FTA, are we also considering any cancelations or no shows from either side?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. That is a great question, and I don't know the answer to it. So
that's part of the problem in my seat is that I'm not sure of the data or the source of the data or what the
data encapsulates for each of the metrics that we track. So that belongs to the team that puts it onto the
website.
So like I said before, we'll have to have some information added to this website just to explain what is being
included in the charts and graphs. So point well taken that I don't know the answer to that question. The

average person looking at this wouldn't know the answer to that question. So it's an opportunity for us to
add additional context at the top of the page here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. And I tried to Zoom in with my computer, and it was very spotty WiFi. So you cut out a little bit earlier, and I think you had referenced possibly we going back to 2022 as a
baseline, which I-- and I think that's what you said. I'm not sure. And the CART cut out as well. I just wanted
to note, and this is not to disparage staff or you, Mr. McKay, or any of the work going into this, but that the
FTA guidance on paratransit for OTP says that agencies should aim for 100%. We always plan for 100%.
That is always the goal.
And I think especially when you consider-- if you are a paratransit user, you have to book your ride way in
advance. There is a window by which you could be picked up. This is not the same kind of service where
when we think about fixed route, if my bus is supposed to arrive at 8:30 and we think on time is within, I
think, five minutes is our standard, with Access-a-Ride, that on-time is a very large window, relatively.
So I think from an equity standpoint, I like to see that we have improvement. And it looks like we'll have to
get into the data to make sure this is the right data to show. But 100% is really the expectation of the FTA
and I think our paratransit customers. And again, this isn't to disparage staff for what we have in front of us
but something I thought was important to put on the record as a director who cares very much about this
issue.
And I also was-- going back to what Director Guissinger had noted about some of the information in the
Board packets aren't available, or maybe we can't find it yet, in these dashboards, I do concur, and I think
it's an important that we don't have different pockets of information, different places.
And I would also offer that it is good to have a PDF, especially if-- just so that we are communicating
effectively. And I don't know what's going on with the procurement, but if there is a way to easily export
data across these metrics, I think that it would be useful in terms of transparency and for directors and for
Performance Committee, the future Performance Committee.
And I did also just want to-- I had a question and then comment. And so have we discussed putting data
about customer service complaints on our dashboard or maybe including them in our Board packets? Again,
that is something that we did do for quite a while, and it included paratransit. But I think that is a good line
of sight.
I know we have a community survey that surveys riders and nonriders and frequent riders and infrequent
riders. And it looks like you are going through the dashboard, Mr. McKay. But is that something that we'll
have insight into? We used to get those by category.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?

PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So I will confer with staff. I appreciate the comments that Director Ruscha put forth.
I need to educate myself on what was included previously because I'm not aware of the reference that was
made. But I'm happy to engage with Mr. Summers as we look at that data set going forward so we can
circle back in that same communiqu that was referenced earlier when we get this built out in the interim
step and provide an update on where we are with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That would be great. Does that answer your questions, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And just finally, I wanted to just note, because we talked about the check register,
and I believe that was passed by a Board resolution. So I think it might just be appropriate in our Board
packets or somewhere to put the link because we do have that link online. And that is also something that
the state does. They have a check register as well.
And so perhaps not pages and pages in a Board packet but a hyperlink. And just to note, I think, per-- yeah,
I think that we would have to-- if we were going to completely take away that forward-facing information, I
think we would have to do that by a vote of the Board. But I concur, there might just be a more efficient way
to share that information. And I actually do appreciate that, right now, I could go online, and I can find that
check register and download an Excel file. So I actually do credit staff for that. And I'd like to keep that
option.
But other than that, again, I understand this is a work in progress, and I appreciate what the team is doing.
And perhaps there could just be a follow-up, if that would be permissible. Maybe Mr. McKay and I could
meet in the future, and I can get a better understanding of these metrics and data so I'm better informed as
we go into the new year, or we can meet after the new year. And that concludes my comments for the
evening. And thank you, everyone, for the work on this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I believe Ms. Johnson has some comments to make.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much. I was able to get confirmation from staff. As you may recall,
just a couple of weeks ago, Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, he and his
team put together this dynamic report that showcased customer engagement activities that went through
to October 31. And we indicated that there would be an additional report that would go through year's end.
So the report that we shared last month did provide that data, including paratransit cases by category, i.e.
service complaint, experience, QRide-- that's the software that's used to schedule paratransit trips-- as well
as commendations and, both, paratransit and fixed route complaints or comments, as we would qualify
them, because you can have a commendation or a comment-- commendation or a complaint. They were

broken out separately. So this goes back to the further point of utilizing these disparate mechanisms in
reference to showcasing data to include that here on the dashboard going forward. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other comments by directors? Well, I wanted to say thank you
for moving this along. I think some of us are still anxious to see the final product and look forward to seeing
additional work coming forward by the end of the year. Are there any other comments from directors? OK.
Are there any other matters to discuss?
I don't see any. All right, in a moment, this committee will meet in executive session to receive legal advice
and to discuss personnel matters regarding the GM CEO's 2025 performance goals. I would like to append
the motion to move into executive session to state that the Performance Committee meeting will be deemed
adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the committee moves into executive session, the main
meeting will be adjourned. I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the
following, pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)(1)CRS for consideration of personnel matters regarding the General
Manager and CEO's 2025 performance goals and input from the Board of Directors on the same. Is there
a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have Guzman as the movement and Davidson as the second. The main meeting is-oh, is there any discussion? Are there any no votes moving into executive session?
Seeing none, that means that there are-- how many committee members? Six yes votes and no no votes,
zero no votes. So the main meeting is adjourned at 5:54 PM, and we will proceed into executive session.
For all of those who are expected to attend, would you please stay seated? And for any remote directors
and/or staff expected to participate, please move to the other Zoom room. And for everyone else, would
you please vacate the room at this time and take all of your belongings with you? While we will transition
as quickly as possible, please allow staff a few minutes to switch everything over from the public meeting
to the executive session.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. Six Yes votes, zero no votes, one absent excused.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the correction. One absent. All right, we'll rejoin approximately 6 o'clock.

From: To: Subject: Date:
Vincent Diamantine RTD Board Office Fire Debra Johnson
Tuesday, December 10, 2024 11:59:50 AM

Johnson's leadership has resulted in a staff exodus at RTD. She seems cruel and self-absorbed,
and has presided over some of the worst transit service in RTD history. Enough is enough stop wasting hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars on someone that no one likes or
respects.
Thank you for your time.
Vincent Diamantine, RTD District A constituent

