Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 25, 2020 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Michael Delong – Bus Operator – 20 years
Thomas L. Gustamantes – Bus Operator – 16 years
Muneeb Mian – Bus Operator Non-Revenue Instructor – 21 years
Osvaldo Nuñez – Signal Traction Power Maintainer – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 28, 2020

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 28, 2020 and February 11, 2020

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Budget Transfer for Platte Boiler Replacement and Repair

It is recommended that the Finance, Audit, & Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors approve a budget transfer of $453,182 from the GM Contingency Fund to
the Facilities budget to fund the replacement of a boiler and 3 flues at Platte.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
B.

Longmont Fare Buy Up

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his/her designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of Longmont to buy up fares on all four
of the Longmont local fixed route services herein referenced as “the 300 series.”
Specifically, the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Accessa-Ride services for a period of two years.

XIII.

Recommended Action
C.
2020 - 2022 Granite Paver Maintenance Contract for 16th Street Mall Transitway
Lanes
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his or her designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the three-year contract for 16th Street Mall Granite Paver
Maintenance with Colorado Custom Rock Corporation, in the dollar amount of
$3,565,821. Funding for the first year of this action is $1,100,000 and is included in the
2020 Adopted Budget.
This recommendation supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #3 – Enhance Current and Future Transportation Methods
D.

Check Register Publication

It is recommended by Directors Menten, Mihalik, Lubow, Lewis, Williams, and Folska at
the February 11, 2020 Financial Administration and Audit Committee, that the RTD Board
of Directors instruct the Interim General Manager/Chief Financial Officer to take all
necessary steps to deploy the RTD Financial Transparency Check Register at our website.
This portal shall include a downloadable comma or text delimited file which includes
payee, date, check number or electronic funds transfer (EFT), invoice number (if available),
purchase order number (if available), cost center account code, object account code, and
description of purpose for the purchase. The data file shall contain only information that is

a public record or that is not confidential or otherwise protected from public disclosure
pursuant to state or federal law.
In addition, the chart of accounts shall be published listing cost center and object code,
this file shall also be available for download in comma or text delimited format.
The account payable check register shall be published and accessible to the public by July
1, 2020. The downloadable file shall be updated monthly and contain the last three years
of payments.
This recommended action supports the following Agency/General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #1 Strengthen transparent public communication
Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management
E.
Contract Option Award for the Purchase of Thirty-four (34), 40 foot Low Floor
Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his/her designee, to exercise the
contract option and amend contract 19FK002 with Gillig LLC for the purchase of thirtyfour (34) additional new 40 foot transit buses and associated spare components, and
extended warranties for a total price not to exceed $16,650,480.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business
A.

N Line Update

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

