2025-04-29
Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

JULIEN BOUQUET: I will now call the Tuesday, April 29 RTD Board meeting to order. We are convened
as of 5:33 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video
recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon
as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a livestream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting.
I will now actually lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'd like to call on Director Guissinger. Would you please read out loud the land
acknowledgment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and
trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary Tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the Native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in the
district as we move forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. I'll now call the roll. Treasurer Benker? Director Buzek? He is an
excused absence. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick. Absent. He might be joining us later. Staff, if you like to note when
he joins us. Director Larson?
MATT LARSEN: I'm here on Zoom.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm ready.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am present as well. So we have 13 present, 2 absent. There are no retiree awards.
There are no retiree awards for this evening. The second-quarter retiree awards will be announced at the
June 29 Board of Directors meeting.
We now we'll move into public participation, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who
are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name
is called. If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium
when I call for any additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you're dialed in,

press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're
being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted via writing. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to be
contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have up to three minutes
to provide their comments. Our first in-person speaker tonight and first speaker is Keith Brooks.
AUDIENCE: Hello. Keith Brooks. You all knew the good times couldn't last. I'm back. Yes, Chris. So I've
returned with a bountiful harvest of low-hanging fruit, a way to improve some services for, if not free, close
to it. I am speaking about-- I've actually had to write this down-- the 0L3LCVEVP and some, but not all,
116X, 145X, 169L, LD1, RX and FF5. All of these are buses that either some or all of them only run in the
peak direction into the city in the morning, out of the city in the afternoon and evening.
However, the physical buses themselves and the operators driving them are running bidirectionally. And so
for these services, you could double the frequency from-- sometimes it's as pitiful as three round trips a day
to six by simply allowing people to get on the bus that is already going there. And because all of these,
except for maybe arguably the 3L, are very express buses, this really doesn't add a bunch of time.
There may be some reason out there, if you go digging, maybe something to do with the Collective
Bargaining Agreement and operator hours versus service hours or something like that. But there is a
difference between any reason and a good reason. And the fact of the matter is, these buses are already
going to a place where, not a lot, but some people are also trying to go. And letting them on the bus is free.
What would be really cool is if these round trips could be evenly spaced throughout the day to every two
hours, rather than every one hour in the morning and then one hour in the evening. But that's more of a
philosophical change about getting out of the 20th-century mentality about commuter buses rather than
regional buses. But I offer this humble suggestion for the improvement of the district. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Keith. Our next speaker is Landon Hilliard.
AUDIENCE: Hello, Board of Directors. My name is Landon Hilliard. I'm a transportation planner with Boulder
County, and I'm here to deliver you a letter of recognition for the outstanding service and commitment of
staff, namely, Theresa Rinker, who leads the EcoPass Market Development Team, and Nataly Handlos,
who leads the Service Development North Team. The reason for this-- and I'm representing five members
of an Advisory Committee of the EcoPass district in the town of Nederland.
The reason for this is for their attributes of responsiveness, efficiency, and effectiveness, which are highvalue in a large organization like RTD with many moving parts. And the context here is an EcoPass program
in the town of Nederland, in which Theresa Rinker and her team helped stand up by quickly administering
the contracts and by giving advice about how to engage RTD staff for the contracting.
The second part with Nataly Handlos and her teammate, Greg Filkin, has to do with their relentless effort
to improve service of the NB, which is a critical route between Nederland and Boulder and has been the
desire of the community for years to see the service restated. So this one-two punch, if you will, of engaging
in EcoPass contract swiftly, as well as thinking about improved service of the NB, has left residents of

Nederland happier than can be. And their representatives, these five members of the Advisory Committee,
have drafted a letter to present to you to recognize these two and their teams.
So for the record, I'd like to read the names of the teams. First, this letter comes from five members of the
NEPPIDAC, which is the Nederland EcoPass Public Improvement District Advisory Committee. Let's call it
NEPPIDAC. And the five members are Andrew Bliss, Susie Gallaudet, Tom Mahold, Tierney Marris, and
Eugene Smith.
And the two teams that should be recognized, especially their leaders, Theresa Rinker and Nataly Handlos,
are the Marketing Development Group, led by Theresa, and then followed by Dawn Cluster, Valerie Padilla,
Bailey Manfro, Joy Coutri, John Lopez-Algeria, Reina Cubias, and Lily Avilla. And then, of course, coming
down to the Service Development North team is Nataly Handlos and Greg Filkin.
Thank you for the time to be able to recognize this outstanding service and commitment of this group, again,
because of their responsiveness and ability to listen, two, because of their efficiency in carrying out their
jobs, and, three, their effectiveness of successful outcomes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Landon. Our next speaker is Emma Griffin.
AUDIENCE: Hi, my name is Emma Griffin, and I am a co-lead for Greater Denver Transit and a resident of
District A. I'd like to take the time to personally Thank the RTD staff, GM/CEO, and the Board of Directors
for their recent safety and security improvements to personal presence on light rail vehicles and at light rail
stations.
I recently had my fare checked by an Allied Security employee on back-to-back days on the H and E lines,
respectively, and also notice my fare checker getting on and off vehicles to spend time visibly present at
the Colorado Station as well as the I-25 and Broadway Station. This is exactly the type of visible presence
that riders and prospective riders have been asking for, and I believe continuing these efforts will have a
noticeable positive impact on safety and ridership. Thank you for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Emma. That was our list of in-person speakers. Mr.
Kroll, any hands online? Oh, yes? Oh, could not sign. OK. Let's do our online, and I'll ask for any in-person
speakers. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
there is no one online signed up to provide or with their hands raised, indicating their wish to provide public
comment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Any speakers who would like to make comments in person, please step up
to the podium.
AUDIENCE: Hi. Paolo Solorzano, RTD Riders Alliance. Just a couple of points I want to make real quick if
I can get them in. So again, going to bring up real-time signage, real-time systems, the Next Ride. It's still
down. I know they're being worked on, but the thing is it's the A line. It needs to be working right now. It's
an International Airport. It's one of the busiest in the nation.
And also, they come on and off right now. So it gives the illusion that they may be working, and then they
are not. One thing I'm going to ask-- and I've been asking a lot of staff and all that over the years-- is, can
they be turned off? Simply just turn them off if they are known to be displaying incorrect information. Is that
something that can be done or not?

And now that they're being worked on with the new systems and software, is that a vulnerability that they
will have in the future? That needs to be looked at because if we're going to have a system like that for the
next 10, 20 years, that's not going to work.
And now that there will be more rail maintenance and the customer-facing real-time systems are still
completely unreliable, with no ETA, there is a need for a permanent team or a couple of teams similar to
the impact team that was first deployed in 2024 to support the coping panels in downtown rail reconstruction
project. The amount of money that RTD would spend on impact teams would be magnitudes of order less
than the financial, medical, and employment impacts that the local transit-dependent population would
endure.
Riders have already been devastated by a lack of accurate information on site at light rail stations, a lack
on social media, and a lack online on RTD applications. The devastation never needed to happen. And it
can be alleviated with simple, accurate information.
And yeah, congratulations and thanks to Steve Martingano in finally being appointed chief. In my eyes, he
has shown that he upholds community policing values that Coloradans want to see. Community policing is
a set of strategies where law enforcement partners with the communities they serve to address local
problems, and it emphasizes building relationships, engaging residents, and collaborating on solutions. And
Steve Martingano has done all that, so best of luck to him.
And on that note, now that there's more fair enforcement and more sworn officers out there, it is absolutely
imperative that people who are experiencing economic hardships are not cited for fare evasion due to
having expired three-hour passes, especially during periods of mass cancellations, as we've been
experiencing for the last two years. That happened to me, and that's why I started this alliance. I was on
crutches. I was kicked off a train.
On a similar note, and now that we may hit a positive turning point, we cannot forget about security guards- allied security guards. They need support. Telling them to disengage in cramped quarters on a bus or rail
car-- simply just saying disengage is not-- it doesn't work. So please start taking security guards-- their
feedback seriously. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Paolo. Are there any other speakers in person?
Anyone? All right. Mr. Kroll, any comments emailed for tonight's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all have several comments that we will enter into the public record. Mr. Hilliard-Landon Hilliard spoke earlier about the commendation for EcoPass-- for staff who work on the EcoPass
program. We will enter that into the record. GDT submitted a letter on the topics of slow zone and light rail
fare enforcement. Riley Peters submitted a letter citing a myriad of ongoing issues. Michael McBride sent
a quick note indicating his support for the Longmont to Denver train project. And Susan Myers wrote in
earlier this month regarding access on demand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
participation period at this time. There are no external entity reports for this month under our item for
external entities. So we'll move on to the Audit Committee report. I know Committee Chair Buzek is gone.
Director Catlin, would you share anything-- or would you like to share anything regarding the Audit
Committee?
PEGGY CATLIN: At this point, I have nothing to share. There's no update this month. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. We move on now to the Finance and Planning
Committee report. Committee Chair Guzman, anything to share?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Finance and Planning Committee met April 8. We discussed
the sales and use tax forecast delivered to us by CU Leeds-- good, robust conversation. For anybody
interested in a hefty document with a lot of good information, very-- makes you hold your breath while you're
reading through it. I will say that. We have to deal with some issues that are coming our way. And I know
that this Board can do it.
We also took one action for the 2025 fiscal policy to come to this Board tonight. It was placed on unanimous
consent. As I have previously discussed with you, I'll be asking for that to be removed to make one quick
amendment that was not done during committee.
The next meeting is going to be May 13, and we will be discussing the Colfax BRT update. We will have an
external entity discussion with the state demographer's office. We will be talking about equitable
transportation-oriented development and are expecting to take action on that to deliver it to the Board by
the end of the month.
And we have requested as a committee an update on capital improvement projects from staff. We may
have to move that later in the calendar, depending on the timeline for our meeting. But we're looking forward
to having another set of good, robust conversations. They're always fun on Finance and Planning. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Committee Chair. Moving on to the Operation Safety and Security
Committee report, Committee Chair Ruscha, do you have anything you would like to report?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It's always hard to follow up after Committee Chair Guzman
goes. But no, we-- and I also apologize because I didn't have my computer set up. Would you mind to give
me a second so that I can give a report after our Performance Chair goes again? I can grab my notes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. You just will have to follow up with Committee Chair Guzman.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I know. I just raised the stakes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Performance Committee report, Committee Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Double whammy. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Performance Committee met on April 14. We
discussed the 2021-2026 strategic plan updates. And I presented a timeline of what can be expected for
this year's annual performance assessment review of the General Manager CEO, highlighting key dates
along our calendar that everybody needs to be prepared for on Performance Committee, as well as for the
Board. If you did not watch that meeting, I would suggest reviewing it. Make sure you at least peruse the
dates and the months that are going to be key for the Board to complete its work on time.
With respect to reviewing our General Manager and CEO, I would like to invite everybody to the 5/12
Performance Committee. We will be having a conversation. Vice Chair Gutschenritter and I are working to
make sure that we have the updated performance assessment tool ready to discuss at that time, based on
this year's goals and the changes that were made in January, so that we can proceed with understanding
and have that in front of everybody, so we're all considering that well in advance and not in a rush to the
finish line.

Preparing those review statements and keeping track of everything that's gone on in a whole year gets real
rough around the holiday time if you haven't done the work in advance. So we're trying to get it out early
and then have room for conversation afterwards. By no means is it a final conversation. It's just the
beginning.
Also, I believe today we sent out-- thank you-- to the Board Office staff, particularly Ms. Parish, a request
to the members of the committee. As was discussed previously, we would be splitting the quarterly checkin with our General Manager CEO from any other substantial matters. We will have one small report on the
Employee Service survey-- sorry, the employee survey.
And then we will immediately be adjourning into a quarterly conversation with General Manager CEO Debra
Johnson at the next planned meeting-- or in June, at the June 2 meeting. And then we are asking for
members to make themselves available June 23.
And we will be receiving at that time-- we anticipate-- the Customer Value and Customer Experience Deep
Dive, and that is because we will have the responses from the Customer Experience Survey on rail, and
bus, and paratransit available. So we can go through that in depth to understand the current state of things
at RTD from the customer perspective. That's all. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. For the state of the record, I do see Director
Harwick has joined us virtually. Welcome, sir. Committee Chair Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. For the state of the record, my co-pilot, Harwick, joined us just as I was
about to go, so I couldn't pass the baton. But ordinarily, Director Harwick gives these updates.
So we did meet on Wednesday, April 9, at 5:30. It was a pretty long meeting. We had a special guest, Earl
Lee, come to talk to us on paratransit matters. We had no items for action, but we did have other discussion
items, including our comprehensive annual safety presentation, which was very excellent and very much
appreciated. Thank you.
We got our twice-yearly update from RTD PD. And that was very much appreciated. I know that folks had
to juggle schedules as committee members had requested that be moved up on the calendar, so we could
hear from our acting Chief/Chief as soon as practicable.
And then finally, we rounded out with a fairly lively discussion on Title VI and the agency's Title VI proposal.
In that meeting, it was strongly suggested that those with questions, concerns, or any kind of comments,
please kindly respond to the Board Office survey that went out so that staff can give you time and address
those if you have them, and/or just email our GM CEO directly and copy me if you're comfortable.
For those who are on OSS, notices have gone out about the Title VI proposal, which was put out to the
public, if not January, it was very early February. But for other Directors who are not on OSS, it is a lot of
paperwork, and it might seem overwhelming. So I'm just encouraging you to please talk to staff if you have
questions or concerns so that they can adequately address them. I'm always happy to help, but I do not
have that level of SME.
And with that, I believe we adjourned sometime after the four-hour mark. But we got a lot of business done
otherwise. And our next meeting will be at the regular time and date stated. So that would be Wednesday,
May 14 at 5:30. If you are unable to make it, as a courtesy reminder, please notify your chair if you will be
absent for all or part of the meeting so that we know who is present. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your report, Committee Chair Ruscha. Moving on is the approval of the
Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the
Board packet. And are there any corrections from the Board for the minutes to be approved this evening?
Any corrections? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just-- could we pull off of the OSS-- was that April 14? I just had it in
my notes. Or did we already pull it off? You and I had a discussion about that, and I wasn't sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We haven't pulled off anything.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Would it be OK if we-- I think there might be some minor corrections to OSS. Is it
OK if we pull that off? And then we discuss in the interim, and we'll just bring it back next month, as we
have done previously when there might be some minor corrections.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then the date on that meeting? I'm sorry. Was that-JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry. That was April 9.
JULIEN BOUQUET: The April 9 meeting?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, that was April 9. Uh-huh.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so pulling off the April 9 OSS meeting, and then making a couple corrections. And
then we'll hear that for May. OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Unless there is objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may
I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following Board meetings?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I haven't even stated the dates. Don't worry. I did that the first time when I got into the
Board too. March 25, 2025, Board meeting; April 8, 2025, Finance and Planning Committee; April 14, 2025,
Performance Committee; April 22, 2025, study session; April 24, 2025, Executive Committee. Now I can
have a mover.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Director Ruscha as the mover.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I have Nicholson as the second. Thank you. Oh, any discussion on this motion?
OK. Seeing none. I'll call for a vote. Are there any no votes on this action item? Seeing none. It'll pass 14,
0, and 1.

All right, moving on to our next item is going to be my Chair's report. First, I want to thank our recently
appointed Chief of Police and Emergency Management, Steven Martingano, as well as the RTD police
officers for their swift response last night to an awful act of violence at Union Station, the courage and
decisive action that our officers ensured the public was kept safe. My thoughts are with the shooting victim
and their family. GM/CEO Johnson intends to update us further on the events of yesterday evening during
her report in a few moments.
Next, I would want to send a thank you to Board Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, and former RTD Director,
Jaime Lewis, who attended yesterday's Denver City Council meeting. The city council voted on a
proclamation supporting the community's efforts to propose an honorary name for Civic Center Station,
recognizing the life and career of Reverend Wade Blank. The proclamation was sponsored by council
members Chris Hines and Sarah Parity, and council approved the item unanimously.
I now will move on. And I'd like to take a brief update and give you all a brief update of the conversations
and potential timeline related to joint rail planning efforts in the Northwest corridor. As you all will remember,
we've received updates from representatives from the Colorado Executive branch regarding Joint
Passenger Rail service, periodically going all the way back to September of 2024.
Most recently, Diane Barrett was joined by representatives from HNTB and EY at our February meeting.
They outlined the current modeling and cost projections for a three-trip-per-day intercity passenger rail
starter service from Denver to Fort Collins.
As the Board Chair, I represent RTD alongside GM/CEO Johnson in ongoing joint service principal
meetings, which have occurred since the February update, and will continue to be scheduled as needed.
Also participating in these meetings are the respective principals of the Front Range Passenger Rail District,
Clean Transit Enterprise, Colorado Department of Transportation, as well as a representative from the
Governor's Office.
Another external entity report will be provided to this Board during the May 28 Board meeting. And again,
that is a Wednesday. The intent of that presentation will be to share the work to date on the agreed-upon
governance planning goals for joint rail services.
Each of the various parties I mentioned earlier agreed that each Board should understand what is being
proposed prior to the respective boards and consideration and action, specifically the terms of both an
Intergovernmental Agreement, or an IGA, and an intent to appropriate resolution regarding a joint rail
service in Denver-- endeavor, excuse me. The potential IGA, again, will be discussed in these coming
months.
Following the May 28 Board meeting, there will be an external entity report in June, followed by potential
action on the IGA, and intent to appropriate resolution in July. I look forward to an extensive conversation
on this at our May meeting and remain committed to providing you all with updates as the conversations
amongst the principals continue.
Finally, in my Board report, I want to recognize a recent loss for the RTD community. Former RTD Director
Bob Broom passed away earlier this month. Director Broom served on the Board from 2017 through 2024.
He was a thoughtful, insightful, and, if you listen closely, very funny Board member. He brought an immense
wealth of experience in government and public finance to this Board.

Director Broom has a storied career with the city of Aurora, including service as a city manager and then
city councilor. Following a standout career in municipal government, he launched a second career in public
finance. To Director Broom's wife, Ruthie, and daughters, Lisa and Laura, my thoughts and prayers from
the RTD community go out to you.
With that being said, that is my report for this month. I thank you all. I will now give it over to GM/CEO
Johnson for her report.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir, may I ask for a moment of personal privilege?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can we observe a moment of silence for Mr. Broom?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further comments? Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I would just like to say that I now represent that same district, Bob Broom's
district, District F. And I have known Bob for many years in the city of Aurora. And I just also want to give
my respect to his family and to thank him, thank for his legacy, and for allowing me to step into his shoes.
So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. Thank you, Directors. Any further comments? Thank
you. GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. And good evening, Board members, and to all who are
assembled both here in this room and virtually. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, RTD's General Manager
and Chief Executive Officer. Before delving into my report, I am taking a moment to honor and recognize
Director Broom.
I echo your sentiments, Mr. Chair. Director Broom's insight, candor, and experience in municipal
government, both in the realm of public finance and leadership, served him well in his eight years as a
member of this Board of Directors. I commend his lifelong dedication to public service and appreciate his
unwavering support for public transportation.
Before transitioning into my report, I will also provide information, as you indicated, related to an unfortunate
incident that took place in the Denver Union Station underground bus concourse. I will be inviting acting
Chief Martingano momentarily to provide additional information regarding planned security enhancements
for the area.
As I shared with this body last night via email, at approximately 10:00 PM, Monday, April 28, RTD was
notified by RTD's bus dispatch that a shooting occurred in the bus concourse at Denver Union Station.
There was one victim struck by a bullet.
RTD PD and security personnel responded to the exact location of the scene, as RTD and security
personnel were already on site at Denver Union Station. Emergency medical personnel responded and

transported the victim to the hospital. RTD is not aware of the person's status at this time. One individual
was taken into custody.
The Denver police secured the concourse. The facility was reopened for transit operations this morning at
4:46 AM at the beginning of revenue service. Bus operations, for everyone's edification, has contingency
plans for numerous eventualities, including the plan that was enacted last night to preserve customer
personal safety and security following the shooting.
Under one such contingency plan, in the event of police activity or disruption in the bus concourse, buses
are typically detoured to surface streets. Street supervisors are deployed in the concourse and at street
level, if it is safe to do so, to direct customers.
And it's important to specify that an on-site commander usually takes control of the situation, which, in this
instance, could be Denver PD that's orchestrating what needs to happen in light of the very important aspect
of public safety. And keeping this in mind, that was the case last night. Buses and service last night were
also detoured to protect operators and customers on board at the time.
All this said, every situation is different, and no contingency plan can account for every eventuality.
Operations employees must remain vigilant and nimble to properly respond to each circumstance as rapidly
as possible to ensure everyone remains as safe as possible. To accomplish this, bus operations personnel
routinely coordinate with RTD PD and vice versa in the event of personal-safety-related and other disruptive
incidents.
Only one bus dispatcher was on duty last night and was responsible for simultaneously managing a high
volume of incoming calls and for communicating with multiple vehicles and street supervisors. Service alerts
to report disruptions like the one that occurred last night are typically sent out within 30 minutes of the
incident.
The dispatcher on duty during this particular incident, who would have typically issued a service alert to
notify customers and service detours, did not send the alert due to the extenuating circumstances outlined.
I will now welcome acting Chief Martingano to provide additional information. Chief?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Thank you, ma'am. Chair, if I could?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course.
STEVE MARTINGANO: So first of all, thank you. I'm very honored to be in this new role. And obviously, I
did not want to address the Board within 24 hours for a situation like this. But hopefully, the leadership I
give you today shows why I was chosen and answers a lot of your questions.
The incident yesterday, like I said, is an ongoing investigation. I did reach out to our Denver Police
Department partnership members to try to see if there was anything I could present to the Board. It's a very
complex situation, is what I've been told. And they are not comfortable at this time to make any type of
public record.
I do understand that, based off of conversations, the news are giving different narratives. But I can tell you,
nothing that is being stated in the news has come from Denver PD or any member of the investigation team.
I will state, in regards to our officers, having them out there deployed and visible-- they got there very, very
quickly. They were able to secure the scene in minutes, and they did render first aid to the victim to allow

her to be transported to the hospital. Again, we don't know the condition. But all that was done within
minutes, which might have taken a lot longer or maybe even hours not having our police department and
dedication and the visibility at Denver Union Station.
So I will tell you, also, our video investigations team is working very closely. They are providing camera
footage, trying to understand where this situation first started, how it came to our properties, giving all the
information to the Denver Police Department, so they could make a collective investigation and come out
with the true facts, hopefully here soon.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chief. So transitioning now to the context of my monthly report, I will share
with you just a few highlights of activities and strategic endeavors since the most recent Board meeting
held on Tuesday, March 25, 2025.
On Thursday, April 3, I, along with several RTD employees, attended a quarterly progress review meeting
regarding the city and County of Denver's East Colfax bus rapid transit project currently underway.
Representatives from Denver's Department of Transportation and infrastructure, better known as DOTI, the
Federal Transit Administration, as well as firms engaged in the project's construction and design, were also
in attendance.
Discussions ensued related to design and construction updates, schedule milestones, material
procurements, utility relocations, and several other critical components to bring this project to fruition. For
anyone joining in tonight who may be unfamiliar, the BRT project includes new and enhanced transit
stations, service amenities, and improved pedestrian and bike connections and placemaking opportunities.
Construction, testing, and commissioning are anticipated to conclude in 2027. And upon completion, RTD
will serve as the operator of the BRT service along this heavily utilized transit corridor.
Jonathan Stuart from DOTI, who serves as the project's director, is scheduled to be in attendance, as you
heard from Finance and Planning Chair, Michael Guzman, at May's Finance and Planning Committee
meeting to give a presentation on this topic. As I was pleased to share with the Board last week, on
Tuesday, April 22, crews completed rail maintenance efforts that resulted in the full elimination of slow zone
number 3, which previously impacted the H and R lines between Southmoor, Bellevue, and Iliff stations. All
speed restrictions along the R line have now been removed.
To date, 28 of the 29 slow-speed orders have been fully removed, and three of the four light rail zones have
been successfully eliminated. In the coming month, which is May, the agency remains focused on lifting the
remaining light rail speed restriction along the E and H lines between Colorado and Southmoor stations,
with the intent of lifting all remaining speed restrictions by the end of May. A less-than-1-mile speed
restriction remains in place on the southbound track between Yale and Southmoor stations.
On April 3, 2025, as I previously shared with this body via written communication that was transmitted
electronically, two restrictions were added near the track switches to the north and southbound tracks near
the Yale Station. Once again, I appreciate customers' patience as these necessary state-of-good-repair
efforts have taken place over the last year. I would be remiss not to state that mechanical safety remains
paramount at RTD.
Should additional speed restrictions become necessary, customers can rest assured that the agency will
not compromise when it comes to safety-related matters. And I want to acknowledge RTD staff throughout

the organization who have leaned in to ensure they're doing their due diligence to maintain an operating
environment that is mechanically sound.
Crews are now working hard at work, engaging in necessary state-of-good-repair efforts along the A line
between Denver International Station as well as Denver Union Station. This scheduled work, which includes
rail maintenance and curve track replacement, commenced this past Saturday on April 26 and will continue
through May 8.
During this time, rail vehicles will need to single track in both directions to allow crews to proceed with track
surfacing between Denver Union Station and Den. Just want to qualify that throughout that alignment, we
do have some areas of double track, and there's single track. So where there's double tracking, we will be
utilizing the single track as we do the rail maintenance.
To ensure mechanical safety, rail vehicles will operate on a 30-minute headway. And bus shuttles will be
deployed at designated times between 38th and Blake Station and 40th and Colorado Station, and between
Denver International Airport and 61st and Peña stations. The service disruption page of the website, the
Next Ride app service alerts, and station signage will all provide information regarding scheduled
department-- excuse me, scheduled departure times and bus shuttle boarding locations for the duration.
In support of the strategic priority of customer excellence, RTD has updated both its website and the Next
Ride trip planning tool to include four new translation languages, specifically French, Somali, Nepali, and
Amharic. Prior to updating online resources, we have available in English, Spanish, Russian, Vietnamese,
Korean, and simplified Chinese. With the four language additions, RTD now offers 10 languages, increasing
customer access to information.
Related to employee ownership, this has already been stated, but I most definitely am proud to share with
the Board and with staff, as I did yesterday morning, following a nationwide search that resulted in two
finalists being named, that Steven Martingano has been selected to serve as RTD's Chief of Police and
Emergency Management. Steve will officially assume the position on Tuesday, May 13 following a
swearing-in ceremony at Denver Union Station.
The details of this event are forthcoming. Until May 13, he will continue to serve as RTD's acting Chief of
Police and Emergency Management. I thank acting Chief Martingano for his dedicated service to this
agency over the last 10 years. And I personally look forward to our continued efforts for the betterment of
RTD and those served. So once again, congratulations, Steve. If you want to join me in round of applause.
And with that, Mr. Chair, that concludes my report. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, GM/CEO Johnson. And again, congratulations, Chief. Director
Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi. Some of you already know that my husband and I were in the bus terminal last night.
We were headed to the 952 W line when the shot rang out, and we heard screaming, and people started
running. My husband did see the victim on the ground. I had already turned and started running.
Needless to say, we were a little bit rattled. But I will say, kudos to Martingano and also DPD. The
emergency response was just immediate. And I just wanted to say that that was just a very impressive
reaction. And kudos to Chief Martingano.
It was really horrifying to hear the screams and the people running, but I think that what could have been
mass chaos turned out to be a response that was better than I think any of us could have hoped. So I just

wanted to let you all know that what you heard on the news was not exactly accurate with regard to timing
or location but I just did want to let you know that I was present.
And it's really a sad state of affairs that we had to experience that, especially since we've made such huge
strides in improving our safety and security. That's all I have. Thank you-- oh, I also did want to say, my
condolences to Director Broom's family. I've known him for a good 20 years and have worked with him in
many capacities, and I always admire his steadfast leadership, and sage counsel, and quick wit. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Catlin. And, yes, it was very troubling. I'm sorry
that the two of you had to witness that and be part of that. But ultimately, we're all happy that the two of you
are safe. That's most important. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. First, I will echo what you just said about Director Catlin's safety and what
you said earlier about former Director Broom. I have two questions for GM/CEO Johnson about the incident
last night and our response to it. The first is, we've staffed up pretty significantly in the last couple of years
when it's come to public safety.
And I'm wondering, maybe you or acting Chief Martingano can speak to the ways in which our response
last night was able to be different than it would have been five years ago, when we had 20 officers, as
opposed to the hundred-something that we have today. How has that increase changed our ability to
respond? And then the second question I want to ask is about the service alerts and our ability in emergency
situations going forward to ensure that we deal with that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson. I will start,
and I'll yield the floor to the acting Chief. By way of background, as it relates to the difference relative to
where we are-- so a couple of things. Five years ago, we were in the midst of COVID.
So quite naturally, we probably wouldn't have had that level of activity and the throughput relative to the
ingress and egress within the bus concourse, just by virtue of what was happening and the orders that we
adhere to by the Colorado Public Health and Environmental Department.
And so with that as a backdrop, recognizing that we did have limited security personnel, what I will say,
three years ago, which would probably be a better analogy, we have static posts working in tandem with
RTD PD. And acting Chief Martingano has been here leveraging the experience that we garnered through
the American Public Transportation Association's peer review. When we talked about community policing,
we recognize that we, as a transit agency, are interwoven into the fabric of the communities that we serve.
And so all of these behaviors that are less than optimal in and around transit facilities, recognizing that we
have taken a community policing approach, we have static posts. Recognizing I live in lower downtown, we
have RTD PD that are situated at the Chestnut Pavilion, as well as having active security personnel as well
as RTD PD actually canvassing the bus concourse. So that's the difference.
Relative to the statements that I made earlier, when indicated, the bus dispatch reached out to RTD PD.
Basically, we have what we call station starters. They sit in the bus concourse. So there's cameras, and
eyes, and ears. And so they notified RTD PD, and within moments. And the Chief can speak more
specifically to that. They were able to be on scene.

Whereas three years ago, we more or less would have been relying on DPD to deploy sworn police
personnel to the scene. So with that as my response, I'll tackle the next one, but I want to yield the floor to
the acting Chief. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Chief Martingano?
STEVE MARTINGANO: One thing-- everything that our CEO said was accurate. And the only thing that
needs to be addressed is training. Our officers are trained really, really well. Having our own police
department, we're able to train them internally. And then obviously, our growth, we have a lot of experienced
officers. So a lot of the officers that were working last night have been officers at other municipalities. So
as soon as they responded on that scene, they knew exactly what to do, how to secure it, how to render
first aid.
[AUDIO OUT]
All that is contingent on the efforts, the continued support that we have. We're one of the better trained
agencies in the Metropolitan area because these situations don't happen every day, thank God. But when
they do happen, we want to make sure our muscle memory and our officers are ready for it. So I think that's
been the biggest change from five years ago to today. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, Secretary Nicholson, you had questions relative to
service alerts?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Basically, I completely understood what you said about we had an emergency
situation in which getting the service alert out is less important than coordinating all the buses and
everything. Obviously, getting service alerts out is also very important. It's not as important, perhaps, but
it's something that we, even in an emergency, ideally would have the capacity to address.
And I'm hoping maybe you can speak to what-- I recognize that we also are not made of money. How can
we in the future when something like this happens, because unfortunately it probably will somewhere,
somehow-- how can we make sure that we're prepared and able to provide those sorts of service alerts to
our customers in those sorts of situations?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. And thank you for the question, Secretary Nicholson. So
a couple of things-- considering that we are a transit agency and, like many, we do have a continuity of
operations plan that is contingent upon the circumstances, as I talked about, relative to the eventualities in
reference to what may occur.
So there's a myriad of different aspects. One thing that's unique about Denver Union Station, considering
that that is the agency's primary intermodal hub whereby we have a concessionaire agreement. And I
broach that because we have a third-party entity, as we talk about commuter rail. On the Chestnut Pavilion
side, we have light rail, and then we have bus dispatch.
This occurred after hours, which doesn't negate what you're asking, but I'm providing context before I
address the question. And so quite naturally, as it relates to bus dispatch, it was after hours. As relates to
the circumstances there, it's generally fallen to bus dispatch due to the fact that that's more heavily staffed,

and we have a greater number of buses coming through that time of night and with that, relative to the
service alerts that would customarily fall there.
So looking back, what we always do is do a hot wash so we can determine what might we capitalize on
going forward. So as we talk about where we are considering the interdependencies with the different
modalities, we are still one RTD.
And so having conferred with staff, for all intents and purposes, recognizing that we have certain staffing
levels during the course of Monday-through-Friday service during specific hours and recognizing less
individuals that are available within customer care, looking at deploying those resources in a different
fashion to have someone who may be able to be on call to disseminate that information going forward.
While we are talking about RTD, when I was engaging in this topic, it's a similar situation that I've seen at
other transit agencies as well because while these incidents are far and few between, quite naturally the
impetus is on providing customers with information relative to service disruptions that generally come from
a mechanical operational type of situation and not that of a public safety. So going forward, recognizing that
there could be some template that could be leveraged from a pull-down menu whereby somebody who
doesn't work within those auspices could generate some information relative to what one sees on a Next
Ride app or a website.
But as we talk about what happened last evening, I do want to ensure that everybody understands, with
our stellar staff that we have within bus operations, that in that instance, there were individuals directing
folks to buses on the ground, as opposed to not knowing what the service alert would have been outside
of saying, due to an emergency situation, buses aren't servicing that area. But they were typically elsewhere
within the perimeter of the Greater Denver Union Station complex.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I would just say that that makes perfect sense to me. And yeah, that in terms
of putting people up there to direct the folks who were planning to go to the physical location is definitely,
probably the first priority. And hearing that you're already thinking about, how can we have that sort of-what's the term that we use? An extra board individual, so to speak, who can sub in, in those-- I'm joking.
I'm using that as a metaphor, not an actual.
I'm saying, having someone who can sub in, in those circumstances, and be able to handle getting those
alerts out, while bus operations is taking care of making sure the buses know where to go-- that sounds like
a really thoughtful solution. And I'm glad to hear. Please, just as you get more information about progress
on that and as you look into how to implement and operationalize that kind of solution, please keep me
updated on what that looks like. And I'm sure the rest of the OS and S committee would probably be curious
about it as well. So thank you.
And I'll just say to Chief Martingano, I thought the response was fantastic. I think this is exactly what we
need to be able to demonstrate to people that we're capable of. Catching the guy is incredible. And it speaks
to the value that having a real police force brings to this agency. So thank you very much for your team.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. And I know GM/CEO Johnson will inform all of us when
appropriate. Thank you. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So Union Station is in my district, and I do not wish this to happen in anybody else's.
Let me make that clear. None of us want to have to live through this. To the RTD PD staff, thank you. First

of all, thank you for helping to render aid in a situation that required it. Everything else after that is
secondary.
The human life was the most important thing. And so I am unfortunately at an impasse with how to proceed
with service alerts because I really don't care that service alerts didn't go out immediately. They went out
when it was appropriate because the human life at risk was the most important thing. And it is my district,
so I get to say that.
The second thing is, I really want to thank you for the partnership you have with Denver Police Department.
And I hope that any help and aid that we can give them in the investigation, we do. It sounds like we are.
And so I know that is a commitment that you will uphold in the relationship that we have with the Denver
Police Department.
Detaining the aggressor, because we had trained police professionals there, again, thank you. We have
had a storied history with Denver Union Station, the Chestnut Pavilion, for the last few years. And being
able to look at this without constant worry all night long, I did sleep knowing that it was in good hands and
will patiently wait until more information comes forward. But I would preface any future conversation with
the Board with just the expectation that we would like a little bit of follow up on this when it is appropriate,
whether that comes in partnership with DPD or not. And I will leave that there. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. I would just be cautious for us as Directors to be
conscientious of what words we're using in terms, especially with an ongoing investigation going on with
the terms, such as "aggressor" or "we got the guy" I just wanted to clarify. Just be cautious of the words
that are being used because this is an ongoing investigation. So thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Aggressor or suspect, I just wanted to say, I concur with everything
that Director Guzman just said. I can wax poetic about rider alerts all day long. I do it often, especially in
my district and the routes that I use.
But we're talking about human life. And rider alerts-- this is my personal opinion-- are not even secondary,
or tertiary, or further down the line in a situation like this. But with that being said, I do believe the OSS
committee is to have an update from staff regarding real-time communications, which I think this does fall
under. And I hope I'm not going outside of our rules, Mr. Chair, in addressing another Director directly. But
call me out of order.
Director Catlin, I'm very sorry. You're up on the screen there. It's a really crappy club to belong in when you
are in a situation and shots ring out, or you see a victim on the floor. And so I wanted to extend those
feelings. And I also really appreciate how you showed up today and rightfully commended, our staff, and
our acting Chief, and our response to the situation.
So thank you. Sometimes, particularly when things are difficult, and in the moment, and require a high level
of subject matter expertise, we don't say thank you enough. So thank you to all three Directors who spoke
on this matter for recognizing and appreciating staff. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further questions/comments for GM/CEO Johnson?
Thank you very much for your report. And thank you, Chief.
All right. We're going to go a little bit out of order here. I am told that former Director Tisdale is online and
would wish to share some words regarding former Director Broom. So, Director Tisdale, you are recognized.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I-[AUDIO OUT]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Tisdale, it looks like we just lost you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm here. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do appreciate the opportunity
to acknowledge and appreciate the incredible relationship that I enjoyed with Director Bob Broom through
our eight years on the Board together. As you know, Director Broom, and Director Kate Williams, and I were
elected in 2016, joined the Board in 2017 and served eight happy years together.
And Director Broom was always a source of insight, patience, civility, gentlemanliness, and very careful
analysis of all of the issues, particularly the financial issues, which is why he was always on our boards for
our pension funds, because he understood that more than most people. He was a source of inspiration to
all of us. And he was an incredibly welcoming, genial, and "humorous in his own quiet way" Director.
And I appreciate the opportunity to share these words. I'm sorry that I was occupied earlier with other
matters and could not be a part of the comments that were given in tribute to Bob Broom. But I want to say
to all of you who did not have the pleasure and the privilege of knowing Bob Broom, that he was a
phenomenal public servant and a man whose memory will live on long after because of his civility, his
gentility, his kindness, and his knowledge. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the opportunity to share
these words.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course. Thank you very much, former Director Tisdale. Thank you for joining us,
and thank you for those kind words for former Director Bob Broom.
Moving on, our next item is for unanimous consent items. There are five items on the unanimous consent
agenda item listed under Section 15, actions A through E. Those items are for the 2025 fiscal policy, 2021
to 2026 strategic plan official visit, the 2025 state lobbying services, the resolution supporting pilot program
for records request fee waivers serving a public purpose, and then, finally, the bylaw amendments regarding
Director accountability.
If anyone has a change to discussion on or question about any of the remaining unanimous consent items,
please feel free to advise the Chair, myself, at this time. And we'll, of course, be happy to pull the item from
unanimous consent for consideration under recommended action. Director Guzman, which item would you
like to pull?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Can we please pull item A for a quick amendment? It's three words. We'll get it done
quickly, I promise.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Item A will be pulled. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I would also like to pull the strategic plan.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Item B. Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, I was going to ask for-- sorry, the letters just changed-- the last two-- so the public
records and then the bylaw. I know I don't have to explain, but just on the basis that sometimes we have
things, even if they go to Executive, to come back to the Board just so that we're all on the same page.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. Item D an E have been pulled. Anyone want to pull A. Oh, I'm sorry. Originally
item C, my apologies. All right, so those items have been pulled.
So to approve, then, our 2025 state lobbying services, do I have a mover on that?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Whitmore as the mover.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ruscha as the second. Any discussion on that? Oh, it's a unanimous yeah. So call for
the vote. Any no votes on it? OK, seeing none, passes 14 to 1.
OK. Now we're moving on to what will be recommended action, which will be-- the first one will be the 2025
physical policy. And this is for the Board of Directors to approve the modified 2020 physical policy-- fiscal,
sorry, sorry, sorry. Fiscal, fiscal.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm not that out of shape, Julien. [CHUCKLES]
JULIEN BOUQUET: It is a "cal," if you guys want to do that-- fiscal. And do I have a mover on that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman. Second?
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Benker. Discussion? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Quick Amendment-- Board members' packet, page 31 of the fiscal policy for 2025, I
would move to amend item number 6 under expenditure policies to read as follows, "RTD will provide transit
services in accordance with Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act requirements and agency guidelines,
period." Add three words at the end. That's it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. And do we have a second on that amendment?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whitmore as a second. Any discussion on that amendment?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Director Guzman, can you explain the point of the amendment and what it does?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. So we have to follow the law, but we also have other guidelines in different
policies that we also need to be responsible to adhere to that are RTD, to make sure that we are providing
public service under our statutory enactment.
We're to provide transit to the population in the regions we represent in the RTD. And so there may be
guidelines. There are guidelines that we need to adhere to in providing that service that go along with this.
And in terms of expenditure, we need to follow those guidelines as well, not just Title VI, but also our
guidelines as a Board that we have available to us.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can you just give me an example of what-- being new to the Board, I'm not as familiar
with every piece of RTD. And maybe this is a question for GM/CEO Johnson. But what would be an example
of those guidelines? Sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So for example, this Board adopted in 2016 their service standards and their service
policies, keeping in mind that we have been having ongoing discussions as it relates to-- I use this air
quotes-- legacy users of paratransit, for instance. It's within this body's purview to discern what might also
be applicable.
And so those are examples that I would offer up. And not to mention, as we look at a comprehensive
operational assessment going forward, as we make decisions relative to how service is deployed, there
could be certain elements that this body takes into consideration. For instance, if you weren't generating a
certain boarding per revenue hour, that's an agency guideline. So really, it's from the service standard
monitoring aspect.
This body adopted a resolution, for all intents and purposes, last month whereby the staff and I are bringing
forward to this body for its consideration slight revisions to the service standards, keeping in mind that when
we do the triennial comprehensive operational analysis, that will inform service standards going forward.
So that would be the information relative to the agency guidance.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would also add to that, we set goals at the beginning of this year. And sometimes
those are guidelines that we have set for the General Manager/CEO. So expenditures should not be tied
to only Title VI requirements, which we are legally responsible to do anyway, but also to the guidelines that
we have set forth as a Board. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I think this has been said, but just for other Directors who maybe didn't
previously sit on FNP or are new to the Board, this actually tracks with previous fiscal policy language that
we had before. I can't speak for drafters, but it's just possible as we move through the years and made a
lot of changes that this type of language fell off. But I did want to emphasize that this covers current Board
policy, so it's harmonizing the two. I hope that helps provide the context.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Thank you. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, that really makes perfect sense to me. Thank you very much. Sounds great.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any further discussion on our fiscal policy, not physical policy? This will be my George
W. Bush "nucular" moment, so I'll embrace it. Are there any no votes on this? OK. So it passes 14, 0, 1.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: And then make sure you return to the main motion to vote once you've amended it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then the main motion to actually pass it as amended. Any no votes on that? And
that'll also pass 14, 0, and 1-- 0 being no "no" votes and 1 being absent. OK, moving on. [LAUGHS]
Moving on to our strategic-- next item is the 2021-2026 strategic plan official version. Do I have a mover on
this?
KAREN BENKER: I'd like to move and also have a discussion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Benker is the mover.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And O'Keefe is the second. And discussion? Director Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. I went through the revised strategic plan for 2021-2026, went through it. And
I guess what surprised me the most-- first of all, let me tell you, it was very well put together, easy to read.
And I'm very pleased that we have discussion and photos of our employees and their buy-in. I think that's
very important.
The reason I'm bringing this up is because when I take a look at the strategy pyramid and I take a look at
our vision mission values, I don't see too much about transit. And so I decided to take a very quick look at
some of the other transit agencies. For example, our mission statement is, we make lives better through
connections. MARTA says, to advocate for and provide safe, multimodal transit services that advance
prosperity, connectivity, and equity for a more livable region. And I went and I took a look at a couple of
others.
This particular strategic plan is going to be expiring sometime next year, mid next year. And we have nothing
in here about increasing ridership or restoring services to pre-pandemic levels. And so I wanted to at least
point that out to our Directors that, in my opinion, there's quite a bit that's missing in the strategic plan.
Since we're going to be having a retreat in the next couple of weeks, I'm hoping, Mr. Chair, that we can talk
about some of our goals and strategies and start thinking about where we want to take this agency in the
next year or two years. Also, this particular plan strikes me as being a bit outdated. And perhaps we can
even get a jump start on rewriting a new one.
And I'm hoping that the Directors here would be involved or staff would be involved, and we make it pretty
rigorous. And also, I would like to see some specific goals, numbers, dates, et cetera. Most of this is-- or I
should say, much of this is based on customer surveys or employee surveys. I would like to have a lot of
our goals to be measured so that we know whether or not we attain them or not.

That is the only reason I pulled this. I just thought our strategic plan is an important document. And I think
we-- I get a sense. Of course, we won't know until the whole Board chimes in for a full discussion. But I get
a sense that we may want to make it a little bit more rigorous and get moving on it. That's all I have to say.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer Benker. Can't make any promises, but I think it is worthy of a
discussion going into the future of what input the Board has specifically with these final years of the 2026
strategic plan and, of course, what we transition to because we have to remember of how much the world
has changed when this was first introduced and what feedback we want to add to it. So I appreciate this
discussion. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So first off, echoing everything that Director Benker said, I'm very excited
about having joined the Board at a time when we get to be the people that rewrite this. I think it's a real
special opportunity. But I will say this.
One thing that I've heard throughout the last year when I was running, talking to people in the Transit
Advocacy Community over, and over, and over again is, for any criticisms people have about where we are
at with the strategic plan now, you should have read it when it was first written.
The thing that I have heard over and over and over again is how much better this strategic plan is from the
one that was originally drafted and the improvements and the thought that's gone into it from the Board
members over the last three or four years who really have pushed to make the existing strategic plan, as
much as possible, meet the moment that we've been in.
And I'd be remiss not to mention that I've heard, again, from six or seven different people during the course
of campaigning. And so I think that that really deserves a certain amount of respect for how much work was
put into it after it was drafted to make it better.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Yeah, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So as Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee with my Vice Chair, Karen
Benker, I also want to bring to your attention that on our work plan, we do have the beginning of the
comprehensive operational analysis, which will inform and should inform, with data, information, et cetera,
strategic goals, which are the overarching long-term goals of the agency for at least the next 10 years that
will be commencing.
Later this year, we are going to receive some updates from you, Madam General Manager and CEO,
correct? It's on our work plan to be able to do that work to be able to get this going. And so it is an exciting
time to be on there, but there's a lot of detail and research that needs to be done.
I think we will achieve that end, but all in good time. We just need to, I think, wrap this up and be done with
2026's plan to be able to transition into the newer plan. And so we definitely have that on the work plans
already prepared and anticipating doing this work going forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Director Benker? Or sorry. Director Chandler? I'm off
today.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: That's OK. I too want to echo what Director Benker said. I really appreciate her
looking forward to that, specifically at all of the additional mission and vision. I would also like to mention
maybe additional emphasis on the taxpayer in general and also stakeholders as well. There are a lot of
stakeholders that were not really addressed, and I think that's an important something to talk about as well

in the strategic plan. So I just want to mention that and put it in the back of everyone's mind to think about
in the future.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just have-- well, maybe a clarifying question. Is that OK? And someone
can correct me if I'm wrong, but my understanding is that the 2022 plan predates the last two Board
elections. Adjustments to that have been made primarily regarding our scoring process. And what we have
here is a new strategic plan. I don't want to ask a leading question, so I apologize because I'm going to give
my thoughts.
I did feel it was a little slimmed down from the previous version, and I had concerns. I would feel more
comfortable if someone, whether it be GM/CEO Johnson, or Chair performance, or you, Mr. Chair of the
Board, to just explain how are we going to do strategic planning moving forward, just recognizing that 2022
document was also a collective process with a prior Board. And then I would be OK voting yes if I
understood where we're going.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the
comment-- and all of you all's comments. I don't disagree. So just by way of background, when I came into
this organization after doing a myriad of stakeholder engagements with elected officials from multiple
jurisdictions, engagement with union representation with the Board itself, with employees, it seems as if we
did not have a clear-cut direction relative to having a North Star.
We did not have a strategic plan in place. Considering that I came into the organization in November of
2020, wanted to ensure that we could rally around and have an understanding of the direction in which we
were going, unbeknownst to me at the time, didn't realize that we didn't have a lot of baseline metrics and
things of the like. Whether that's good, bad, or indifferent, we went down the path with establishing baseline
information.
I provide that as context because there were multiple levels of the organization that were involved, including
the Board, as we talked about what the mission is. And as we all know, it's what we do, and the vision is
where we aspire to be.
And while I recognize that the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority may talk about their intent, this
was our intent at the time relative to saying that we make lives better through connections due to the fact
that a myriad of people said that RTD was known as the agency of no. We didn't engage with individuals,
so it was reflective of what was happening at the time. And that's not to debate the issue. I'm just saying
the point in time.
And so keeping that top of mind, we engaged with a third-party consultancy where we did a solicitation, had
several proposals that were submitted, had Board retreats and things of the going forward. As we talked
about what the mission would be and the vision would be, there was input from the Board as we talked
about our vision statement to be the trusted leader that gets back to the agency I know and people trusting
what we're doing to provide value, i.e. what's the value that we bring with having a taxpayer-paid transit
organization at least 70% to provide value and excellence to the customers and community. So that's how
that germinated.

And so with that, going forward, recognizing that it is staff's intent of working with the Board as we did
previously, ensuring that there is a third-party consultancy that could help bring this full circle, if that's this
Board's desire, but recognizing that this does expire, air quote, in 2026. It would be a collective effort to
have discussions about what that path would be going forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That satisfies my question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. I just want to put emphasis on it. And, Performance Chair Guzman, if you wanted
to add on to, the key term is collaborative-- collaborative process between staff and the Board of Directors,
which we had previously but, of course, going forward, after, again, the expiration of this 2026. So thank
you for your comments. Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. This is Director Paglieri. I just want to say, thank you, Director Benker. I
agree with you, and I look forward to collaborating with you and the other members of this Board in drafting
the plan after this one. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Committee Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You said it, collaboration. We will communicate about this, but I think it's very clear
we want to have some good information to be able to make decisions based off. We have baselines now
which we did not have before, and we will continue to grade on that scale. We'll work together to figure out
what that looks like.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. And again, the collaboration process continues forward as one of our
Board goals this year was to be more present with our stakeholders, track with our stakeholders, get that
input as elected officials, and, again, collaboration with not only the Board, who is, in theory, the voice of
the people who put us to these positions, collaboration the staff, but of course, collaboration with our
stakeholders-- so looking forward to the process. Any further comments on this item? OK, seeing none. I
believe I had Director Benker and Director O'Keefe as the-- I'm sorry. Are we good online?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, it froze up.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'll keep speaking then. We're still going. OK. Thanks. Sorry about that.
So I have Director Benker as the mover and Director O'Keefe as the second. Do we have any no votes?
And again, this is for the Board of Directors to approve the attached document as the current official version
of the 2021-2026 strategic plan, which incorporates revisions to the plan previously adopted by the Board
in June and October of 2024. Are there any no votes on this item? Oh, Mr. Kroll, I'm sorry.
JACK KROLL: I'll just note that Director Harwick had to step away. He'll let me know when he's back. So
when you record the official vote, we'll just note him as away.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you. Any no votes? OK. We'll see that pass 13, 0, 2 absent. Excellent.
Thank you, all.
OK, moving on. We're now on our next action item, which is the resolution supporting pilot program for
records request fee waiver serving a public purpose for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached

resolution in the Board packet, creating a pilot program to provide CORA, CCJRA requests fee waivers for
set number of requests serving a public purpose. Do we have a mover?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Nicholson as the mover.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Chandler as the second. Any discussion on this? Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Richard.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: "Every time you tear a leaf off a calendar, you present a new place for new ideas
and progress." That was GM/CEO Johnson's quote in RTD's January 8 Inside Connections email. And I
think it's fitting today. I return to you after a month with a new idea, one that came directly from staff and
represents real progress over what was presented last month. I want to be clear. This proposal is not a
compromise. It's better.
Staff came to me with an approach that was more aligned with our values and more grounded in existing
law. And after reviewing it, I agreed. That's why this resolution provides one additional hour of free records
processing time for every request that serves a public purpose. This resolution is no longer about the
person, but rather the request they're making. The reason this ties the waiver to a public purpose is simple.
That's exactly what the CORA statute allows us to do.
For decades, it has said, quote, "Such fee may be reduced or waived by the custodian if the electronic
services and products are to be used for a public purpose, including public agency program support,
nonprofit activities, journalism, and academic research. Fee reductions and waivers shall be uniformly
applied among persons who are similarly situated. We determine public purpose in this resolution with selfattestation, presenting each requester with an explanation of the waiver and asking them to affirm that their
request serves a public purpose. All this resolution really does--"
[AUDIO OUT]

There we go. Two-thirds of all paid requests last year would have been fully covered by this policy. And
those requests weren't abstract. They came from researchers, journalists, and everyday people trying to
recover video of accidents, locate stolen vehicles, or understand public safety incidents that directly affected
their lives. These were people seeking answers.
So tonight, I'm asking you to say yes to something that's simple and fair. When someone makes a records
request that serves the public good, unnecessary fees shouldn't be a barrier. This is about removing barriers
to access, barriers that fall hardest on people without institutional resources or personal wealth.
It's about recognizing that public records exist to be used, and that when they're used for a public purpose,
it strengthens trust, improves outcomes, and serves all of us. I want to thank Directors Guissinger, Chandler,

and Ruscha for their thoughtful engagement and for helping shape this into a resolution that better reflects
the needs of the public that we serve. Their input made this proposal stronger.
This resolution is a modest but meaningful step forward. It makes us more open as an agency and reduces
the public's burden in accessing information that already belongs to them. I respectfully ask for your support.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Is it OK if I address the mover? Or-- OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson, for your kind words. I'm asking-- sorry, as I wasn't
involved in the final iterations of this, I do have some clarifying questions. And I hope you can help me out.
So before I say that, thank you also for including academics. You know I was pushing hard for that one last
month, so that did warm my heart. So an 1B, where we talk about 170 public purpose requests per calendar
year, does that mean one entity can make multiple requests? Or are those 170 separate entities? That's
my first question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So yes, the way that this is structured now is basically, it's done on a per-request
level, not on a per-individual level, because that's how we currently process our records requests. What
that does is it alleviates the burden on staff of having to track participation and usage by individual.
And it literally just comes down to, OK, here's a records request. This records request serves a public
purpose. OK, it qualifies for two hours of free staff time instead of one hour for free staff time. The reason
for the 170 cap is that the original resolution and this resolution are both intended to be financially capped
to ensure that there's not some kind of crazy, "we get 10,000 requests" burden on staff.
So 170 requests at the $30 an hour we currently charge is a little over $5,000 a year. So it's the same cap
of about $5,000 in total cost, essentially, that we'd be waiving, assuming all 170 are used. We did not have
170 paid requests last year. So presumably, assuming requests don't change, I wouldn't even expect us to
hit that 170 simply because we didn't have 170 requests last year that would have qualified for even-- would
have required a second hour.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think you answered several questions there, sir. I had one, but thank you. I would
note, though, that according to the data that the district released to us, we did have far more than 170
requests. But perhaps you were referring to just the ones coming from the press. I don't want to speak for
you, but we had well over 170. We almost had 1,000.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: We had about 150 requests that were over one hour and required a financial-- a fee
payment. So we had about 140, 150 paid requests this year. It was a little bit less in 2023. We had-- you're
right-- many, many more that didn't require that were in within the one hour and didn't require any kind of
fee payment.

JOYANN RUSCHA: And then perhaps-JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're all right. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you, sir. I have a question for General Counsel if that's OK or
whomever. I just presume because this is under your department. So when we get a request from, say, a
local law enforcement agency, I'm just clarifying, we do not currently charge for those requests, correct?
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. So you're correct. When our video
investigations team receives a request for video from local law enforcement, we are not charging them.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That might have been when I was looking at the data where I had such a
high number because those types of requests were also included. And then I guess, I don't-- to whomever
can answer this, I believe Secretary Nicholson did give the answer, but I just want to make sure I
understood. Also, CART was skipping a little bit, so please be gracious with me.
So I hope this does not happen. But theoretically, one organization, be it a trans advocacy organization,
and RNO, an academic, and individual-- if they state this is for a public purpose, they could put in dozens
of requests and potentially qualify for the additional subsidy. And then I guess the second part is, and that
just-- and this is per calendar year. So then once that 170 is hit, when it's reached, it's just reached. That
was a difference from last time. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I'll take the second question first. Yes, it's 170, starts in January. When it's
used up, it's used up. And to the first part, we actually have fairly good data on how many requests are
coming from any one organization or one requester. And at least so far, I don't have the exact number in
front of me. But when I was looking at this data, there isn't any currently any requester making more than
20.
I think 30 requests is about as high as it gets. And most of those requests are handled within one hour. So
yes, there's a possibility that as a result of this, you suddenly get requesters asking for requests that end
up being exactly two hours, and they don't have to pay more. But at least, my expectation is we'll get similar
types of requests to what we get right now, maybe a few more. Most of those requests will be under an
hour, and we'll be satisfied with the existing exemptions in CORA.
Some of them will qualify for this, but you'd have to be pretty precise to try to suddenly start making a lot of
exactly two-hour requests. And I understand the concern that you raised, and it was something that I
considered. But at the end of the day, we just don't have that level of disproportionate number of requests
from one organization to make me think that that's a significant concern.

Now, this sunsets-- I should add one more thing. This sunsets in '26. This is done unless we do something
in 2026 to renew it. So there'll be an opportunity for us to look at it and be like, wow, that didn't work exactly
the way we expected. Maybe we need to make some changes to it. Maybe we need to put a cap on
individual, whatever it is.
But I feel like the fewer of those types of constraints, the easier it's going to be for staff, certainly, because
they're not going to have to track that kind of thing and, also, the less we have to play games or worry
about, oh, we're unfairly burdening this organization, or this organization, or that. Let's give it time, see how
it works out, and then adapt to try to maybe address those sorts of concerns if they come along.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. And following with our Board operating guidelines, I'm going to
go to our next speaker and then come back around. Excuse me-- our next question from first Vice Chair
O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Comment, not question. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Nicholson, Secretary
Nicholson raised this as an idea during his campaign. And as a step towards some more transparency and
openness with the agency, I wanted to congratulate him on getting this idea across the line and pick up
some support along the way to make it better. My district is covered by a bunch of small newspapers, like
some of you. And this option for them in particular makes a difference on whether or not they're writing a
story or not. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I, too, echo that, Director O'Keefe. And I would also like to reiterate the fact that
it does have a sunset provision, which I really appreciate because we can do some significant evaluation
and see if we can make it even better, or if it is doing what we intended it to do. So I appreciate that there
is an opportunity for that revisitation and evaluation. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Chandler. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have two questions. How does this support, sustain, improve transportation in RTD?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Is there a second question? Or you want me to do that one first and then-- OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm assuming you're addressing the questions of the Secretary. All right. Secretary
Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I think that the idea behind this at the end of the day is that the better
people can understand the work that we do, the better that they can get answers to the questions they have
about how RTD operates, the more that we will inspire trust in the community, and the more that we will be
able to address and surface concerns that individual customers may have-- something that they
experienced and then can then get records for and then can raise to us.
It's a much more powerful thing to have someone, a constituent, come to the Board or to the press and say,
hey, this happened to me, and here's the video. Or this happened to my friend, or this happened in my
community. This issue of why RTD is addressing or not addressing this Title VI concern-- well, here are all
the emails of Directors talking about Title VI and their positions on it.

And so here's what we're going to talk about. I think those opportunities to dig in to the choices that we're
making and how we are making them, one of the things that I've learned is we have a lot of back and forth
over email about the decisions that get made in these Board meetings, one on one. Those don't get
surfaced unless someone wants to see them and unless someone makes requests to see them.
And the more expensive that is, the harder it's going to get that information and then be able to make noise
about it. So I think that that ability to empower the people of all of our districts to be effective advocates for
the change that they want to see-- I think that's absolutely what engages, especially communities that are
underrepresented.
People with power have ways to make their voices heard. People without power often have the most
difficulty raising the issues they care about and gaining traction. So I see CORA generally as an opportunity
to empower those communities.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: My second question, coming from the performance space, how does this help to meet
our 2025 short-term goals with the CEO that this Board owns or our Board short-term goals?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great question. I think that when you look at what those goals are when it comes to
improving security, when it comes to increasing ridership, when it comes to increasing on time percentage,
if someone is facing an issue where it comes to, why is my bus not on time? Why are buses in my
neighborhood not on time?
And they want to ask the question, OK, has there been any conversations about this? What data can I get
in terms of our scheduling, in terms of our planning, whatever it is to understand how we're making decisions
that impact on time percentage, that impact service availability, whether we're paying attention to different
concerns at all? I think that we have organizations in the community that dig in extensively into these
questions.
And if you look at the records requests that we get that ask specific questions about our operations, their
ability to get those records without having to shell out $30, $60, $90, $120, $150, whatever, and be able to
poke at us and say, hey, well, what about this? What about that information? I'll tell you, as a Board member,
I'm not going and digging into that data on a daily basis. I am not looking at our run board. I am not looking
at our GTFS. There's all kinds of information I'm not looking into.
And so enabling the public to be the guy that is poking into that stuff and saying, hey, pay attention to this,
I think does facilitate us doing a better job addressing those sorts of concerns. And when it comes to safety
and security, rather, being able to get information, video on the incidents that we're having, and raise
concerns about, oh, RTD did this well, or we did that poorly, or whatever-- I just think it empowers the public
to be an effective addition to the oversight that we are already doing or trying to do on these questions. And
I'm a big believer in the ability of the public, when you empower them, to be effective advocates on those
sorts of questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Appreciate it. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm not trying to hog the air in the room here. I'm trying to ask
direct questions and get more direct answers. So in this resolution, which is-- again, it's changed a bit from

last time. And just so there is no misunderstanding, I was working on this last year. So I fully support the
principle of this. I want to understand what I'm voting on.
So it says that effective July 2025, we also talk about a calendar year. So does that mean for the next six
months, there is 170 subsidized hours for the rest of this year, excuse me?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So get your requests in because-- all right. I just want to make sure. Oops, sorry,
Mr. Chair. is it OK if I directly dialogue?
JULIEN BOUQUET: We're hitting pretty close to the mark of discussion time on this, so continue to go.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am trying to address direct questions. OK. I did have a
comment, and then question, and then I'm done. So yes, when we lower the price, more people are going
to inquire. More people want the product, so to speak.
That was the economic argument that both myself and Secretary Nicholson made last month. So I don't
think someone's going to do the math and try to just hit two hours. We're talking about a subsidy we already
give. We're going well beyond what is required of law in the interest of the public good. So I like that. I
mean, this is in the interest of the public good.
What I'm trying to figure out is, again, how we got from A to B on these versions. And so the one thing that
was put into the last version, which I understood to be on staff's request, but I could have been mistaken,
was some language regarding a report to the Board on the types of requests we were getting in the event
that we had to make adjustments to this policy before the end of the sunset. And I was wondering, Secretary
Nicholson, if you could address why that is not part of this proposal, or maybe staff could address. That's
not a concern. I don't know who to ask.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I would just say-JULIEN BOUQUET: If you could make your comments brief.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I will try. I have one closing comment after this, but then, yeah. Anyway, just in
consultations with staff and with some of the other individuals and stakeholders, I think because of the
nature of the requests being a one-hour thing instead of being this big specific to certain organizations and
specific, that those sorts of concerns become less sizable.
And we can always make the requests in next year for the types of reports that we feel like we need in order
to provide proper oversight. But the sense that I got was just if we don't have to ask for it, we're going to be
better off taking a fresh eye to this in 2026 and making the request that we need at that point.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. OK. All right, any further questions or comments? Secretary, you have
a minute.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I'll keep it brief. I just wanted to point out that I-- and I failed to mention this in
my initial remarks. RTD is at the leading edge right now of our compliance on CORA. The staff that we have

with CORA, both with our public Stewart with Melanie's team really do try to answer these requests, to do
them in the least amount of time possible, to charge people a reasonable fee.
We charge less than the statutory maximum. And I just wanted to make the very clear case that we're
already doing better than a lot of agencies. We take credit cards. This is a step ahead for a team that is
doing it right. This is not bringing us up to par. And I just want to commend the agency for all that they do
in support of access to public records already because I think it's important to highlight that. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Right at a minute. Thank you, sir. I'm going to take a roll call vote on this. Treasurer
Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director. Buzek is absent. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I had my hand raised, and I-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, my apologies. I am so sorry, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, from a perception standpoint, I appreciate all of the items that Secretary Nicholson
has posed. But recently, the governor vetoed a bill of the same subject that was brought forth by the state
legislature. And I know that there are very different components of our particular policy resolution versus
what the state legislature had posed.
But from a perception standpoint, I would just like it to be very clear. And you summarized it well, Secretary
Nicholson, about how we were already complying, and this is just a step further. But I just want to make
sure that we're clear on the communication about the difference in our policy versus what the state
legislature had posed that the governor vetoed. That's all I had. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if you're still in the roll call d sorry to misspeak-- I will be a cautious yes, knowing that
we can follow up on it next year. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Are we allowed to pass so I can think about it a few more seconds? I don't know if
we're allowed to-JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Do I have to make a vote right now? Mr. Chair, we're not supposed to make comments
while we vote. I am a cautious yes for the students and the academics, and I-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes. It'll pass 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11-- 11 yes, 3 no, and 1 absent. Excellent.
Thank you, everyone, for the discussion. OK, moving on. All right, we're going to do a 10-minute break for
our folks on CART. We'll be back at 7:35.
Thanks. All right. Thank you very much. We are now moving on to our next recommended action. And that
is the bylaw amendments regarding director accountability for the Board of Directors to adopt the proposed
bylaw amendments, which detail the grounds, process, and accountability measures, the Board may take
to hold directors accountable. Do we have a mover?
BRETT PAGLIERI: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: O'Keefe is the mover, and Catlin is the second. I heard Catlin online. Thank you. What
discussion, if any, concerns, or questions? Director Chandler?

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: First of all, I would like to thank you so much for taking into consideration some
of the additions that I had passed along. They were very well received, and I'm excited that the committee
passed it unanimously. So I just want to commend everyone for working hard on these bylaw changes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Chandler. Any further comments or questions? Director
Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So typically, if we have a resolution or bylaws change, legal change,
whatever, it is not back dated. It's from this day forward. And I just wanted to get your understanding if that
is the intent of this bylaw amendment. So it would be effective upon passage if it passes, and then it is
moving forward, meaning someone could not bring a complaint from something that happened, say, last
year or prior years.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so good question. So again, my interpretation has always been this is a twostep process. So one, we addressed it when we came forward with our Board operating guidelines of, hey,
these are the proper procedures that we want to go forward with as a Board. And obviously, we passed
that.
So when it comes down to the disciplinary process itself, I interpreted it as being as during my time
specifically as Chair, if there is any issues-- excuse me, I shouldn't say specifically my time-- my time as
Chair after the Board operating guidelines were passed. If, during that time, there is any, you know,
Directors that they felt like there was violations of that, then, there could be potentially a complaint. And
then obviously, from this day forward, when it comes to the bylaw changes, the accountability would take
effect if it passes tonight.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, sir?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So thank you for providing that honesty and clarification on the intent. I believe-- and I
apologize if I'm getting different versions mixed up, so you can correct me. But I believe this most recent
version also covers our code of ethics, which predates the Board operating guidelines. And so that's also
some additional context in my question. I guess my-- well, my question is my concern.
I'm not aware of any resolution or bylaw or even in parliamentary procedure where we pass something that
is retroactive. I know we're not the state legislature. But in the legislature, we wouldn't be permitted to do
that. So I guess that-- thank you for answering my question honestly, but that's my concern, that it would
be from this day forward. And then I also had another comment. But if there are other Directors, then I will
yield because I took a bite at the apple.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. Ms. Snyder? I have some comments.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to make sure that everyone's aligned with the
questions that are being asked. I'm interpreting what Director Ruscha is asking about whether the bylaw
amendments would apply to conduct prior to the passage of the bylaw amendments. And my understanding
is that they would.
The issue is that the bylaw amendments, the effective date would be just the procedure that is being
adopted-- so the empowering the Chair and the procedure to overturn the Chair's direction. But I think that's

a really important conversation to have because I had the opposite interpretation of what Director Ruscha
was suggesting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely. And I just wanted to make some comments. And again, with the
changes being proposed, specifically, I wanted to highlight in section 3 of article 8 is the disciplinary process.
"The Chair of the Board will issue a written notice of violation, including documentation of each instance in
which, in the Chair's judgment, the Director is subjected to discipline as outlined in article 8, section 2 to
any Board members who conduct meets the grounds for discipline.
Any Director who receives written notice of violations will be afforded seven days to provide a written
response to the notice. Written notice is considered provided on the date stamped on the email, which
transmits written notice of the violations made to the subject or Director. After receiving and considering the
response, if one is provided within the state timeline, the Chair may act to discipline the Director in
accordance with article 8, section 4, with such discipline taking effect at the discretion of the Chair."
So again, it's the interpretation that the specific thing that we're changing right here is the disciplinary
process itself. It doesn't really address saying, is this retroactive or not? It's good feedback. It's a good
discussion to have itself. Bu the question is, the Board members whose conduct meets the grounds for
discipline. Yeah, Director Ruscha, yeah?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If you could just speak plainly. So this is retroactive from the time that the Director
attained their position? I mean, what's the date?
JULIEN BOUQUET: The 29th.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, sir. [LAUGHS]
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm giving you a hard time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: General Counsel Snyder, I feel like, expressed my concern better than I did. But I
guess I want clarification on what I'm voting on. So does this mean conduct from which date-- the date at
which the Director was elected? Is it prior to their election? Is it when we pass the code of ethics or the last
Board operating guidelines? I just would like to know what date this-- yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: My interpretation has always been when we passed the last operating guidelines-- the
changes to the operating guidelines. So it would be retroactive. Yeah. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That doesn't sound like what our Counsel said. And I guess that's not what I was
understanding. Wasn't that just a month ago.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mm-hmm. I mean, it really could be retroactive. It's open to interpretation, but it could
be-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure that's retroactive. I mean, we're talking about conduct. And I'm not sure
that that's what retroactive means. Maybe Ms. Snyder can address that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I guess, I mean, ultimately it would be since a director's been sworn in, correct, Ms.
Snyder?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So we're only talking about conduct that a Director
engages in. So that means as in your capacity as a Director. I don't think we're going back to prior to when
you're a Director and when you were elected.
And then what I'm saying, the effective date, unless you all change this or add some clarifying language,
the effective date for the procedure for disciplining a Director is effective upon passage. It could apply to
conduct that occurred prior to the date that you adopt.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be my understanding.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. OK. Yeah, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So then this is not expressly outlined in the bylaw itself. So I'm hearing different
things. Is it the date that-- any conduct from the date that any Director was sworn in? Is that the date? Any
conduct? I just I just wanted to know.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that what it is? OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, since the Director has been sworn as they've been serving as the Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And I don't know if other folks-- I do have a concern that our current
bylaws allow for removal of an Officer by a vote of 10. And this one gives a Board Chair, not a specific one- governance is people-neutral-- power to remove an Officer or a Chair.
And then the Board could override-- essentially veto that, which is, I think, a fairly extraordinary shift from
even where our bylaws were a couple of years ago, whereby Chairs could appoint Chairs and Vice Chairs
of committees, and previous Directors worked to change that to share the power amongst the Board. So I
do have a concern that's a pretty extraordinary leap, and I don't know what we're trying to solve for given
that any Chair under our current bylaws already does have an extraordinary amount of power. So that was
just one piece of concern I have.
The second-- and this came up when we talked about Board operating guidelines last year and a little bit
this year-- is about speech. So when folks were proposing the Board operating guidelines, we were told
over and over, these are guidelines because some of what people considered to be offensive or-- we have
language there about assuming the best intentions and et cetera. This is very subjective. So I do have a
concern that our Board operating guidelines are being codified into bylaws with language that we all knew
would be open to interpretation, depending on who is reading or arbitrating the matter.
Finally-- and this is something that maybe General Counsel could weigh in on-- It was many years ago, but
on the subject of just free speech and what could be perceived as retaliation on the basis of speech, speech
that as Directors, we have a right to. We are elected and we represent a constituency. RTD has been sued
on this previously. And that was Holliday v RTD. I think it was over 20 years ago.
Two Directors sued, a third Director functioned as Counsel. We settled out of court and paid attorney's fees.
And it was a bit of a mess in the press at the time, as well as with certain members of the legislature. So I
was wondering if it's OK if General Counsel Snyder can address that if you have any comments. I would
worry about the principle of free speech, which I think we should all be afforded, but also the liability aspect.
Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Hey, thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. I will say the proposed bylaw
amendment on its face-- I don't have any First Amendment concerns. It would all be in how it's implemented.
So the Holliday case that you referenced definitely had to do with a of the Board taking action that was
somewhat punitive on the basis of Director's speech-- so because they were disagreeing with the content
of speech. And that's a pretty fundamental textbook definition of a violation of the First Amendment.
So certainly, you all as Directors have free speech rights. You don't check them at the door. So that would
be obviously something you would be taking into account. Any action to discipline a Director couldn't be
because you voted no on this, or you voted yes on this, or I didn't like the things you said, the content of
your speech.
And that is different than, I think, some of the categories of conduct that the Board operating guidelines
apply to. So it's a little bit different, but it's certainly something that this Board would always want to keep in
mind, what action you're looking to discipline. And you would want to definitely stay far away from anything
that was dealing with the content of someone's speech.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can I ask one more?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. I'm going to just respond with that as well. And again, it's one I just want to make
note to that-- not saying this is just specifically for me as a Chair. In theory, this would continue forward
unless, Director Chandler and Director Benker, during your examination of the bylaws, you find a better
procedure. But again, it's overall, if the Chair as taking this is clearly targeting speech, I think that this is the
Chair taking action based on violations of our Board operating guidelines. Yes?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And from one former teacher to a current teacher, I know how much
you appreciate and value free speech and our Constitution. But as I noted, this is person-neutral. So I don't
want to interpret something that I heard from Counsel, or I don't want to make a leap.
Is it reasonable to assume-- to whomever can answer this-- that before a Chair were to move to make such
action, that any Chair would confer with Counsel? Because what we consider to be-- I think there's some
gray area on the free speech with Board operating guidelines. Is that something that we can assume would
happen?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. So I'm going to speak on this behalf. So I know myself personally as the Chair,
if there would be any disciplinary action, I would work with Ms. Snyder in regards to that, making sure that
we're following the right protocols and the right language are used, again, to respect any Director who might
be subject to a potential disciplinary action. I personally would work closely with Ms. Snyder. And again, my
interpretation would be future Chairs would be as well. So, Director Ruscha, if you're OK, I'm going to call
on a couple more hands. OK? Let me get a couple more. Chandler? Oh.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the fact that in drafting this bylaw change that
you took into consideration my concern that any given Chairman might be punitive in their use of this. And
so I appreciate the fact that you do have that provision for us as a Board to say, this is personal and not
productive and towards maybe speech instead of behavior, and that we can overturn that Chairman's
decision.
So I think that is absolutely a safeguard, and I appreciate you taking that into consideration. So we do, as
a Board, have the opportunity to hold the Chairman accountable in anything that we deem as excessively

punitive, which could happen. And we should, as a Board, come to consensus and say, no. So I appreciate
that we do have that option.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, absolutely. And yeah, to clarify, if you're like, ah, Julien, you're out of line when it
comes to that disciplinary action or, Chair, you're out of line with that disciplinary action, the next full Board
meeting, there could be a vote to overturn it via two thirds majority. So thank you for bringing that up,
Director Chandler. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I appreciate the conversation so far. I actually think Director Ruscha has a
point that specificity is good. And so what I would say is, I think it makes sense to modify slightly the section
2 grounds for discipline to say, "Directors may be subject to discipline for egregious and/or repeated
violations during their service as a Director of any of the expectations outlined in article 3, section 1," which
would just make it explicit what you said in the meeting, which is this applies to your term as a Director.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'd be open to that. I'd be open to that. Yeah, could you-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. The language currently says, "Directors may be subject to discipline for
egregious and/or repeated violations of any of the expectations outlined in article 8, section 1." That's what
it says currently. This would just add the clause, "during their term as a Director."
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. You're adding the language, "during their term."
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, "repeated violations during their term as a Director of any of the expectations
outlined in Article 8." So that just cabins it in exactly the way the Director is asking for or asking us to clarify.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'd be open to that. I'm sorry. I'm going to be giving my opinion. So are you making a
motion to add-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I'll move to add to article 8, section 2, the phrase, "during their term as a
Director" after the word "violations."
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Nicholson is the mover. Do we have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, Director Chandler's the second. Any discussion on that amendment specifically?
Director Ruscha? Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I cannot read as a Secretary Nicholson. And I was trying to also look
at the CART. I heard repeated, but I think the language is egregious or repeated. And I just want to make
sure that we're keeping in a single incident as well as repeated.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I-JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that we're voting on? That was the language that you're-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Apologies. So it doesn't change anything else that's in the language currently. So the
language currently says, "Directors may be subject to discipline for egregious and/or repeated violations
during their term as a Director of any of the expectations outlined in article 3, section 1."

JULIEN BOUQUET: That would be the adding language. It would be adding the language. Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. What I heard and what I saw was different. I want to make sure that's what
we're changing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. Any conversation on this amendment? OK. Let's take the to add the
amendment. Is there any no votes on this to add said amendment? OK. Seeing none. OK, that amendment
will be added 14 yes, 0 nos, 1 absent. OK.
So now we're back at the motion at hand. Any further conversation on this?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have a motion to amend, but I'm happy to yield if anyone else has comments first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is Director Harwick present? I'm sorry. Director Harwick is. OK, thank you. OK, further
conversation? I just see Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, you're recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, sir. So under-- I'm sorry. I don't know what Board packet page this is.
Let me scroll a second. They're not numbered. OK, thanks. So I'm looking at what would be article 9, section
5, provisions for discipline of the Chair. I think this means to say, "by the Chair" and not "discipline of the
Chair."
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just a note. But the motion I'd like to make actually is under section 4. So just to strike
everything after Ad-Hoc Committee because-- and so we would strike "reduction or elimination of expenses
at expense allocations for local travel and conference expenses" simply because I think that would be very
extraordinary.
Our local budgets are how we do continuing ed, which is part of our Board operating guidelines and previous
resolutions, as well as a response to a state audit. It's how we communicate with constituents and the like.
And so I am just asking that the power to take away a Director's budget, which is how we represent, helps
us represent, just be struck from this. So that would be my-- sorry, that was an explanation and a motion a
third time. Every-- yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Just to clarify, Director Ruscha, you're moving to make an amendment to strike
the language in section 9-- excuse me, article 9, section 4, and you would cross out the language saying,
"reduction or elimination of expense allocations for local travel and conference expenses." Correct? Do we
have a second on that?
IAN HARWICK: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is it article 9 or article 8?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excuse me. Article 8, yes.
IAN HARWICK: Second.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And second from Harwick. OK, excellent. Any discussion on this amendment? OK.
Oh, yes, Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I fully understand where Director Ruscha is coming from on this. The
local budgets are really important. And they do allow us to do a lot of important work and constituent
outreach.
That being said, if you look at the legislature, which recently has had to deal with multiple incidents of
discipline, taking away paid staff and the budget for staff is a punishment-- not punishment, but is a sanction
that they have doled out just in the last couple of months to former Senator Sonya Jaquez Lewis. And I've
seen at city councils before and other elected bodies where budgets have been very much the primary
mode of sanctioning an individual or an office, recognizing that it does have an impact on that Director's or
that City Councilor's ability to function as a Public Officer.
But I think the point is, if you're someone who is violating the rules on a regular basis, there have to be
meaningful consequences and ones that stick. So I don't support the amendment. I think the Chair in this
instance should be given as much latitude as possible, especially when you consider that, unlike a lot of
bodies, we don't have expulsion as a penalty.
You cannot remove a Director. We cannot remove a Director. There's no body that can. Most elected bodies
have a way to deal with someone who is severely breaking the rules. We don't. And so in the absence of
that ability to take that kind of action, I think we need to give the Chair as much power as possible to
respond.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would echo what Secretary Nicholson said. I oppose this. I
understand the logic behind it. I think, since we're talking about a full range of behaviors from, I suppose,
more minimal that would result in, in one outcome, but could be we could have significant bad behavior,
threatening. I mean, if you look at the words of what we're focused on in the high range of behavior, I think
this is an appropriate tool for the Chair to use. And there is the opportunity for the Board to overrule the
Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, First Vice Chair O'Keefe. This tool does exist as is.
Just wanted to point it out. It just, again, gives the authority to the Chair. And again, to the point of, what is
the proper means to hold our Directors accountable? If you're hearing stories where-- just hypothetically
saying.
But you're hearing stories, Directors aren't properly using their conference time or properly using their local
travel, whatever it may be-- again, hypothetically speaking-- then that is something to hold our Directors
accountable for, is if they're not using their conference expenses wisely and they're just using it for travel
and not actually attending the conferences, then that is something that, at the Chair's discretion, if they hear
about that, that's something that potentially could be something to hold Directors accountable with. And
instead of removing them from a committee, that might be the more proper way to go forward with.
And again, as a teacher, it's ultimately what the learning opportunity is and figuring it figuring out of, hey,
these are repeated behaviors that would be characterized as bad. And this is how we're trying to keep
ourselves accountable with it. So those would be my comments on it. Yeah, Director Ruscha, yeah?

JOYANN RUSCHA: So thank you, Mr. Chair. If your proposed bylaw change was very specific to misusing
funds, that would be different. But this is very broad. And at least, when I have asked to travel, I still need
a Chair approval. But again, I'm just going back to not everybody can pull out their American Express card
and cover the cost of a town hall, or travel, or what we need to do to work with our constituents.
Our budget for local and travel has been a topic over the last several years, particularly as it relates to
equity. So for one person, that could be very punitive, but they could pull out their American Express. For
another person, that literally takes away their-- I mean, that's taking away the-- that is severely impacting a
Director's level to represent, which I think also goes against not only, again, our Board operating guidelines,
previous resolutions on training, but even this year's Board goals regarding constituent engagement.
So that's why I would ask for a yes vote on this amendment. If you're more specific to just conduct at
conferences, that would be one thing. I'm asking us to consider the whole picture. It's not about any one
person or any one Chair, but this is governance, so it should be people-neutral. And I just see that as is
incredibly, incredibly extreme.
Moreover, the situation that was referenced in the state capital was a very extreme situation. But that person
in question did not have all of their staff removed. There were additional provisions. Nor did they have their
per diem removed or other things that they would have been able to expense for. They still had access to
staff. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any further conversation on the proposed amendment? Again, the
proposed amendment is from Director Ruscha and is to strike the beginning at, "reduction or elimination of
expenses allocations for local travel and conferences expenses." And that is in section 4 under article 8.
I'm going to do a roll call vote. And again, we're voting on the proposed amendment, OK? Treasurer
Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?

IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a no, so that amendment will fail 2, 12, 1 absent. OK, moving on back to the
original motion as amended. Do we have any further discussion on the motion as amended? And as a
reminder, Secretary Nicholson adding in that specific language. Yes, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So, one, it's unfortunate we even have to have this conversation about bylaws.
Beyond that, I'm likely to vote in favor of this because it does have a way to veto the Chair's decision and
ensure that the Board gets the final say. Looking at our Board operating guidelines, they apply to all of us
in as far as we remind each other that we are all subject to them.
Our authority as a Board comes from us being able to work together. That's our greatest strength. And
when we cannot work together, it does cause problems. So I'm highly frustrated that we're even having this
conversation. I just want to put that on the record. And let's get to the vote.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. Any further conversation? Oh, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have a question. So in other bodies, there is a procedure laid out for
how to bring forth a complaint, so forth. I know it's very light in here. So I guess my comment is, I hope that
you will be sharing that with us. But I have a question. And this might be for General Counsel because I
don't know how it would apply here. But in other bodies when this is brought up, there-- how do I say this?
I don't know if it's executive session, but that process is not necessarily before the public. And that is also
to protect people in the event that they have a complaint regarding something very sensitive or protected
status. And maybe General Counsel can help us understand if that's something that we had to take up,
would we be able to go into executive session? Or would all of this be public? And I can give a couple of

examples. Denver City Council is one and then as is the state legislature with their complaint process.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. So with respect to whether action
could be taken in executive session, I think the answer is no, given the Open Meetings Law doesn't allow
formal action to be taken in executive session. We would have to look at a case-by-case basis what the
specific grounds to be in executive session would be. So I think we're all familiar. One of those grounds
that we commonly use is for legal advice. So we just would have to look at it on a case by case.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. Yeah, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. So what I heard is-- so obviously, no action taken in executive, but perhaps if a
discussion had to be had appropriately, that might be possible. And when I say appropriately, I'm talking
about when we're-- sometimes complaints are of incredibly sensitive nature and conduct, right? Particularly
if they're made on the basis of class or other types of harassment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Again, I think we'd have to look at it on a case-by-case basis and understand that
we're adhering to the specific bases to be in executive session.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you for your questions. Any further questions/comments? OK. I'm
going to put it to a roll call vote then. And again, we are voting on the bylaw amendments regarding Director
accountability for the Board Directors to adopt the proposed bylaw amendments, which detail the grounds
process and accountability measures the Board may take to hold Directors accountable, as amended.
Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director. Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a yes. The motion will pass 13 yes, 1 no, 1 absent. Thank you, everyone, for
the hearty discussion. All right, moving on.
There is now our next recommended action. And that is listed under section 16, and that action is for the
Board of Directors to review its position on Senate Bill 25-161. Before I jump into further conversation on
this topic, I would ask Government Relations Officer Michael Davies to kindly share the latest information
on this bill. Mr. Davies, can you provide us an update on 25-161?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. So with regards to this bill, it has been passed through the Senate. It has been passed through one
committee in the House, and it's awaiting action in-- or in the House Appropriations Committee. There were
four amendments that I communicated in an email to the full Board that were passed as a part of floor
amendments in the Senate, and then three more amendments were added yesterday in the House
Transportation Committee. Happy to detail those amendments. But overall-JULIEN BOUQUET: Would you mind detailing them?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, so with regards to the-- just get my paperwork here. The three amendments
added largely just changed some language with regards to adding wording with geographic service area
with regards to the study and RTD's charge to do a 10-year study.

There was some language added with regards to, "to the greatest extent feasible," some changes to the
bulk purchasing EcoPass program and language with regards to the Guaranteed Ride Home program, and
lastly, just some changes to recognize that the city and County of Broomfield is also a city and County
because it only had referred to Denver as a city and County in the bill. Those were the three additional
amendments yesterday.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Davies. OK, now that we have an update, I will soon open the floor to
further discussion and debate. We had asked for any proposed amendments to our current position in
advance, but we did not receive any that Directors wanted to bring to the floor-- to receive any of that
Directors wish to bring to the floor tonight.
Further, as a reminder to this group, we are under no obligation to change our current position, which is
detailed in our meeting packet on packet page 160. If there is no affirmative action tonight to change/amend
our position, our current position will remain intact. With that, are there any Directors who wish to bring
forward a motion or motions to amend our position?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So move consideration of the position and then minimum.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Chair, I move consideration of our current position on the bill before us.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, which is to amend. OK. Guzman and O'Keefe. OK. And yes, Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a couple of discussion points that I would like to bring up. One of them is
an email that I sent to our Chairman today. And I'm just going to read the email. "I'm writing to express my
concern regarding SB 25-161, notably the amendment proposed by the RTD Board were not taken into
consideration during the legislative process. A particular concern is section 7 of the bill, which prohibits
write-in candidates for RTD Board.
While I understand that the Fort Collins City Council voted in February of 2025 to ban write-in candidates,
this action was taken at the local level by their city council. To date, the people of Colorado have not voted
to remove write-in access to the ballot. It is troubling that this fundamental right has been restricted by both
local city council and now potentially by the state legislature without direct input from the electorate.
Furthermore, it is especially concerning that the Colorado State legislative action targets a single elected
body, RTD. Such a precedent raises broader questions about representative democracy and electoral
fairness."
I just want to state that on the record. I am hoping that we can eventually continue our section to amend. I
would also like to bring up section 11, stating that this is under the safety clause. And the safety clause
states, "The General Assembly finds, determines, and declares that this act is necessary for the immediate
preservation of public peace, health, or safety, or the appropriations for the support and maintenance of the
departments of the state and state institutions." I think that's excessively overly done. So those would be
my two points that I would like to bring forth.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. First Vice Chair O'Keefe?

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So in Executive Committee, I asked for this to come straight to
the full Board. There are few pieces of legislation that impact us holistically as this. And so this was an
opportunity for everyone to raise concerns like Director Chandler just did and talk through it. I will say that
our ability to impact this legislation so far has been behind the force of the full Board.
And so while it is in every Director's option to lobby after we take a position on this, I can tell you that it is
not helpful. In fact, I think it's counterproductive, and it creates a unfair appearance of chaos in the Board.
And so I'd ask that we have it out tonight. We can talk as long as you want to. But when this is done, it is
the Board position. It's up to the rest of you in what you do with that Board position. But I'd ask you to
consider the potential negative outcomes from not standing behind a Board position. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair O'Keefe. Yeah, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just wanted to say, I concur with what Director Chandler said. Thank you for reading
that out loud to us and putting it on the record. And I also just wanted to note that the legislature has not,
for any other office by which they have auspices, prohibited a write-in candidate. RTD is singled out, but
there was no justification for that.
And this is my follow-up comment, if I can make two, sir? Thank you. The fact of the matter is this has gone
through the Senate. It went through Senate Appropriations. It's come to the House. It's gone through-- I
mean, it was in Committee. This will booty on the floor or in a couple of days. I don't think we can make
much more impact on this bill unless we decide as a body to drill down on the amendments that we asked
for. And that does require folks to show up and us to show up and to just raise expectations generally.
But so I think it's cooked where it's cooked. That being said, I did want to specifically recognize Director
Chandler's comments. And thank you for saying that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Second Vice Chair Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: So to those multiple points, I just want to clarify with Mr. Davies that that was a position
we took as a Board. And we had our menu of amendments. And fortunately, we've got some of what we
asked for. But that was not one that was met with a lot of celebration from the bill sponsors or others.
So to Director Ruscha's point, the cake is almost cooked. But I do think it's valid that the two of you have
put this on the record because it is unusual and a bit problematic. So I think it's probably a done deal. But
on the other hand, I think it's great that it's on the record, and perhaps there's more work we can do in the
interims or in the future. Is my statement correct, Mr. Davies?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, I think that's a fair statement.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I have to echo my colleagues here. The write-in candidacy provision is nonsense.
And I remain opposed to it. I am a write-in candidate that was elected through that process, fairly and justly

sworn in as a Director. And I have served honorably with the other write-in candidates that are currently
serving on this body.
That said, I would also like to put on the record that there was a promise made and not kept with regard to
this bill. I sat through endless meetings this last summer with community, having conversation about this
bill that was supposed to be effectively for all transportation in Colorado and not focused on the RTD Board
solely. And the promise of showing up and dedicating time to do that, both as an elected official, as a
community member, as a taxpayer in the district, as a representative of my community, to see this still not
being taken care of and demonstrably affected against one agency singularly within the state of Colorado,
is the height of hypocrisy.
Now, that has nothing to do with us. I want to state that for the record because what was promised was not
delivered here. Thank you for doing the work through the legislative process. It was brought to my attention
that there is perhaps a belief that I have been going to the Capitol to do any work on this bill, have
conversations on the side with anybody about this since we voted. And we sent this through our lobbyists.
I can assure you, I have had absolutely zero conversation about this outside of the Board and the agency.
I also want to state that because, as First Vice Chair O'Keefe stated, once we make a decision as a body,
that is where our authority and our power as a body come from. And so if we don't keep that trust with each
other, we certainly make us-- all of us-- and the agency look weak if we are going behind the Board in any
surreptitious way to have conversations one on one to create any kind of deal that changes the Board's
position. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Since the question is, are we going to change our position, it sounds to me like we
should stay where we are. And we didn't ever decide to oppose it. I guess we could consider that, but I
don't know that that's very helpful at this point. I think that Troy and that we've all made the point that's a
good one, which is we're far down the road.
They're not going to probably listen to us on this. But by staying in an amended position with the same
pieces we had before, not necessarily-- I'm not saying you have to go out and push that. I don't know that
we need to do that, but it leaves that open that people are not liking at least this one provision. And so that
would be my recommendation.
I would also add, I listened to the committee yesterday. And toward the very end, there was some mistaken
testimony that was about that we have a 95% discount on EcoPasses. And then there was a comment that
they were looking at maybe requiring RTD to keep that. There is no such thing. And I think it's important.
I just want to put that on the record, too, that the-- I hope the sponsors are not going back to require us to
keep something. I'm sure that our team-- I think Michael and BBMK and our team here, Troy and Patrick,
have been doing a great job. So I'm just putting that out there on the record. But overall, I guess I would
suggest we stay in a position.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Secretary Nicholson? Bless you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I want to first off say that I think there's been an incredible work done
on this bill by our Government Affairs team. When we proposed our amendments, I didn't think for a second
that we'd get three seats. There's no way. And I certainly didn't think we'd end up with two voting seats.

And that's what we ended up with. And the sponsors, to their credit-- and in a way that I genuinely did not
expect after last year-- have listened.
They haven't given us everything we wanted. They haven't given us 80% of what we wanted, but they have
factored in a lot more than I would have expected on this legislation. And I think that at a minimum, we
should acknowledge the folks, the legislative team, Directors Whitmore and O'Keefe, as well as our
Government Affairs team for the significant amount of work they did on this.
The second thing that I'll point out is, there are some things in this bill that are genuinely good for RTD. The
biggest one that is under threat right now in the legislature-- just having listened to the hearing yesterday-is that there's a provision that says that apartments are required to do surveys to see if their residents want
EcoPasses.
And if 51% say yes, they are required to sign up for those EcoPasses. The Apartment Association doesn't
love that for reasons that are probably obvious. It would, however, lead to a substantial expansion in the
number of neighborhoods, in the number of apartment buildings that are signing up for EcoPasses. The
language is excellent.
And so we don't need to take a vote to support an amendment on that. It's already in the bill. But I would
encourage those of you who want to see more EcoPasses to, in this moment, speak up and say, hey, that's
a good thing. We would like our people to help make sure that stays in the bill because that's going to be
the fight over the next couple of days. The Apartment Association is going to try to take it out. They're going
to try to say it's burdensome.
And so that's where those comments came from because EcoPasses, we don't give a 95% discount. What
we do is socialize the cost of all the transit over all the people in the building. And so if 19 out of 20 of them
don't use their EcoPass, then you're only going to pay 5% of the cost of the normal cost of the pass,
essentially, because you're dividing out the total usage among everyone.
So my building has 100 units in it. If all of the usage is 20% or even 10% of the people in there, you end up
giving each person a much, much lower fee for RTD usage than they would normally pay if they had to buy
a pass themselves. And so the Apartment Association basically wants assurances that we're not going to
go in and say, OK, we're jacking up the rates, and we're going to start charging $400 a year or something
like that for an EcoPass.
That's what they're concern and their complaint was. My understanding is that there is going to be changes
in the language to basically make it clear that we can't charge more than the cost of the actual usage by
the people who are on the contract. So if my building has 1,000 taps, then they would pay for the cost of
basically the usage of the people who have the EcoPass. And that's their way of making sure the Apartment
Association understands that they're not going to get hosed by-JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary, I appreciate your comments. Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I just wanted to add one last thing. Thank you, Mr. Chair. To echo Director Chandler's
comments on the write-in candidate, the legislature right now is about a third appointed through vacancy
committee. That is not a democratic process. That's a party-JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Would you mind speaking into your microphone?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Sorry.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: And I'd like to go on the record saying that the write-in process does still go to the
voters. Vacancy processes don't. It's not our job to change the rule for the state legislature. It's their job to
set the rules for us. So this is a difficult circumstance for us. But I don't think it's an appropriate action that
they've done. But at this point, we have argued as best we can.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I don't want to get too far into the weeds, but I am curious if I can ask a
question through you to staff. This bill mentions that it has to appropriate $146,000, roughly, for this bill. I
was wondering if Mr. Davies could maybe explain why additional allocation is needed. And then I have
further comments.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you for the question, Director. That funding is largely for the proposed
Accountability Committee to study, among the issues, RTD Board governance. But there are more issues
that are part of the directive for the next iteration of the Accountability Committee to look at.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. And thank you for explaining that. That's what I suspected. I just want to
say for the record that I believe I understand the intent of including the language that does not allow writein candidates. But I actually have to say that after hearing dialogue from my colleagues, specifically Director
O'Keefe and Director Chandler, I would probably be less aggressive on my stance because I was in support
of that language, and I understood the purpose because it is a huge responsibility to represent over 200,000
people.
And the bar is set rather low, in my opinion. It's very difficult to go through the process to get on the ballot
to some, but not difficult to others. But I do appreciate hearing those perspectives and would probably
change my mind on that because of it. I don't think that I would change how we should go about whether
we should oppose the whole bill over that though.
And then the other comment that I had was just regarding the process. I believe that Senator Faith Winter
and representative Meg Froelich have been in good communication, in good faith negotiation with us, going
all the way back to when they offered to meet with us. I got time with all of them. I felt representative
Winstead was also very approachable and available for questions before the Board voted to have a position
when it was appropriate, I think, for more individual one-on-one conversation. And then I did my best. I
believe I did not interact with any lobbying after we decided to position.
And I think that I just wanted to highlight that they come from a similar place that I do in wanting better
transit for our community. And I appreciate their work to make this community-- an attempt, in their own
way, to make transit better in their communities because those are also our communities. And I think I'll just
leave it at that. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Paglieri. Any further comments/questions? Oh,
Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So the action--

PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me. Excuse me, Mr. Chair. I had my hand up for quite a while.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm sorry. Yeah, we aren't seeing it. My apologies, Director Catlin. Director Ruscha,
would you mind if I yielded the floor to Director Catlin?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, please do.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin, if you're still there?
PEGGY CATLIN: I am. And I'm sorry you're not seeing my hand. But I agree with Director O'Keefe and
Director Chandler, and especially with regard to the double standard with respect to the legislature and
what they're suggesting for RTD with regard to write-in candidates. I believe that we should stick to the
amend position at this point. And I don't think that we should fall on our sword, but I do think that the amend
position is the best one to take. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just-[AUDIO OUT]

Oh, OK. So when I say CART is cutting out, I'm not joking. Thanks for being gracious with me. But, Mr.
Chair, if you're-- so If it's OK, may I ask-- may I do both comment/question?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So first is point of clarification. In an action item, it's a motion to discuss. And because
CART was cutting out, I'm making sure there's not a motion on the table to keep our current position. That's
what I need to understand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. So just to clarify, there's a little bit of confusion there that we-- to clarify, Mr.
Kroll, we don't have to make a motion to stick with our position. We would only have to do a recommended
action if we're making a change to our position.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And based on the discussion so far, no one's really made a motion to change our
position.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I just wanted to make sure there wasn't a motion on the table.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So sorry, point of order.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I did make a motion to reconsider our position. It did not mean we had to change it.
So we just need to make a decision about whether we will change or not. To have the discussion, the

motion that I made was to reconsider, which means to pull up what we had previously stated, have this
conversation and make a decision as to whether we will change that or not. I want to be clear.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So if I'm-MICHAEL GUZMAN: This way we don't have to reconsider.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'm just making sure we're following the proper-- Yeah, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: If, at the end of your discussion, you don't have any changes that you wish to make, you
can simply withdraw the motion on the table and move on to the next item on the agenda.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha? Thank you for the clarification.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. Mr. Kroll beat me to it. Thank you. I do have some questions regarding some
of the amendments that came out of the k, but I don't want to take up air here. So I'm hopeful that Mr.
Davies would be able to sit for a few minutes so that I can understand. They look substantial, some of them.
So I would be in a position of just staying with amend.
And I understand there are only a few days left of session, but I do think that if we have amendments and
if we didn't get them, and they were very important to us, then we need to keep pressing on, which also
means making sure that our contracted lobbyists, whom we pay handsomely, are pressing forward.
It happens sometimes. Things happen on the floor. Discussions are had, and there's a chance this is going
to go to conference anyway. So I think that if we are going to say, amend, then we stay and not just say,
amend, but it really means concur. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. And again, Director Ruscha, any questions potentially for Mr.
Davies could be sent via email. So thank you. Yeah, Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have a quick question for Mr. Davies and then a motion. Mr. Davies, can you speak
to, what is still on the table at this point? You're in on all of these conversations. What is left to be moved?
What is still being actually discussed? What could we take a position on that might actually change
something, is, I guess, my question. Then I have a motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thanks for the question. From my understanding, there is no firm commitment of
any specific issue that will be offered or not offered on this bill. It may end up just being exactly the way that
it is. Otherwise, you highlighted a conversation from the Apartment Association that I believe is being had.
Outside of that, I am not aware of any other issues that may be raised on this bill.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I think it's important to clarify to our Gov Affairs team and the sponsors that our
only concerns with the bill are the things that we've raised as amendments and that we like or don't want
to try to change-- not like necessarily, but don't want to try to change everything else in the bill. So I would

make a motion that we recommit to only our existing amendments as our recommendations to bill sponsors
for what we want to see changes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, point of order. So you don't necessarily have to be making the motion itself. I
mean, I think it's implied that we're revisiting it, that these are what we're actually looking for still. And we're
going to still stick with a position to amend. I'm not sure if the motion is necessary is what I'm getting at.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I believe it is, and here's why. I want to make it extremely clear that we don't have
an issue with the EcoPass language. That's what I'm trying to say. It's in there. We're choosing not to take
an amendment position on it. We're saying, we're cool with it. And I can't make a motion to say, we want to
support this without changing it. So saying, these are our exclusive asks to change in the bill, don't mess
with anything else, I think, is a relevant motion to make essentially.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of-- sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mm-mm. No, I'm not sorry. Point of order, that is what is on the table right now. Sir,
let's please give the Chair the respect he's due. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm trying to think that through. I still think an amend position makes sense given what
we've said. I don't think that means we have to go going crazy saying we oppose write-ins. It's not going to
happen, probably. But I think we stay in the amend position. I have concerns about, well, what changes
may be coming to the EcoPass provisions at the very last minute where nobody's thought them through.
So I don't know that I would want to make a point of saying we have no problem with it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just to clarify, are you saying you have a problem with what's in the bill right now or
what might be in the bill if they make additional changes? The EcoPass language has been in there since
the beginning. That's been in there from the beginning. We have chosen not to take a position on it, not to
ask for amendments on it.
No one's run an amendment on it. We are choosing not to run an amendment on it today. I think it's just
really important. And I know this because I understand how the building works. I want it to be very clear.
We don't have an issue with what's in the bill and what's been in the bill on EcoPass going back to January.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. So right now, there is a motion. Is there a second with that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Guzman made a motion, I believe. So point-- I'm sorry, just-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yes, yes, yeah.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. I think we have to get through that one first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Fair enough. OK. Director Guzman? You guys took a motion-MICHAEL GUZMAN: I make a motion to consider. Vice Chair O'Keefe seconded to have this conversation
and reconsider. Are we changing or not, is the question. I am willing, if you are, to remove my motion from
the floor if you will remove your second. And then we can consider another type of motion.
I would, however, just in this moment for clarification-- sorry, since I was recognized-- suggest we don't
need to take up anything different than what we already have in front of us because there is consensus
around one issue left on this, and we've already voted on other parts of this where we are in an amend
position. So adding anything to it at this point-- as you said, the language has been there the whole time. It
wasn't brought up before. It doesn't need to be brought up now-- remains with these items. So I'm willing to
remove it if you are willing to.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I will remove my second and move my bishop to pawn 6.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I'm comfortable with that. I would just like to do a final-- because I guess it would
be an amendment if I wanted to say, let's vote to-- I would just like to do a final call. Does anyone have an
amendment that they'd like to offer to try to change the EcoPass language? Because if we do, now would
be a time for us to say that any of us wants to consider an amendment to strike the EcoPass language or
change the EcoPass language. So if any of you have a problem with that language, please tell me now or,
yeah, we're closing the door on that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, yeah. Director Ruscha, yeah?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So in our Board operating guidelines, we don't assume other people's intent or
thoughts. This is getting heated. And I don't know why we're getting heated over EcoPasses. I am now
confused as to what I'm supposed to be voting on. I can tell you, I wouldn't move an inch on any language
regarding EcoPasses without an extensive conversation with staff that manages them because I might not
know the organizational impacts. So if I may, Mr. Chair, I'd like to ask a question to whomever can answer.
And I would first, if we can yield to our General Manager and CEO, is the agency OK with the language as
is? Or is that something we can speak to?
JULIEN BOUQUET: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Ruscha for the questions. As it
stands, considering that we assessed where we were and in relation to the amendments, we are
comfortable with the current position that the Board has taken on the bill. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just think we're asking that backwards. It's not are we OK with it. Or are we going to
come out with we support EcoPass when there's all these other provisions we don't have a problem with?
I'd have to go back and spend another round of time to say, yeah, go out and carry the flag for EcoPasses.
And I'm a huge EcoPass fan. But I think I'm where Ruscha is. Pulling out that one thing to say, hey, we
support this provision-- it doesn't make sense to me.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And just to clarify just real quick that this Board went forward with our amendments of
adding two former Directors as voting members, two current members as voting Directors to remove any
mention in the bill of adding any external members onto the Board. And the fourth was the write-in
candidacy. So again, that's what we're still advocating for. That's what our lobbyists are still advocating for.
And I don't want to put a bow on it or anything, but this is what I'm hearing. I'm hearing that this Board is
still comfortable where we are at. And this is the conversation that we've had over and over again. And as
Director O'Keefe has pointed out, this is-- and our lobbyists will continue to fight for those amendments.
And specifically one that I heard a lot was this write-in candidacy.
And so I will be addressing that camera right here. Why are we getting picked on when it comes down to
the write-in candidacy? That's all I can say if anyone's watching this public meeting later on. So again, just
clarifying. I think we had a pretty good conversation. Oh, Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I would like to stick with our previous position, OK? If, for some reason, there is language
put into the bill very late in session that we don't like, we go back next legislative session and ask for
modification. This isn't the end all, be all. So I'd like hopefully to stick with what we voted on previously and
go forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I just wanted to point out for the record that the creation of the EcoPass was a very
highly contested issue. And I believe that staff originally, during the time of creation of the EcoPass, if
Director Benker can maybe help jog me memory, was against it.
So I don't think that we should use staff recommendation over such an important program. Not to say I don't
trust our current staff. But in the past, staff has been against and been for. And historically, I would not
recommend going to staff for making Board-level decisions like that. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mm-hmm. Perfect. Thank you, Director Paglieri. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I would like to make the motion that we remain with no change on this going
forward.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second that motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, yeah. We'll take a vote on it. Thank you. Yeah. OK. Any no votes on remaining at
the position where we're at in regards to the amend position of SB 25-161? OK, seeing none. We will stick
at a position to amend, 14 yes, 0 nos, 1 absent. Thank you very much, all, for this conversation. And again,
back to Director O'Keefe's point, this was the chance.
This is the opportunity. If there's anything we wanted to change, we have agreed now unanimously as a
collective body that these are what we're fighting for, for amendments. It is not a good look for us when
there are Directors who are lobbying other future amendments as this goes forward.

So please, please, please be conscious of that as you keep going forward if you have any conversations. I
recommend you don't. We have excellent Directors here to have conversations with or myself to have
conversations with it. But I greatly appreciate the discussion tonight. All right?
Moving on-- reported Director activities. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We went before the LUTI committee, we being Michael Davies, William Sirois, and I
to have a conversation about service planning and provision, and also engage in conversation with the City
and County of Denver, addressing any of their concerns for our quarterly meeting. And I also completed a
certificate in Operator Awareness Training for Safety in a moving vehicle through the National Transit
Institute.
It's typically done for people who train the trainers. But I participated in that as a Board member to gain
insight and understanding on how our policies at this level might affect the training and what information is
relevant to informing those policies. So I wanted to make sure that I highlighted that for the Board. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Paglieri and I attended, along with our-- with Jen Webster and Stuart
Summers-- a Jefferson County EDC Board of Governors luncheon. And it was the first step in re-engaging
with Jefferson County in our public involvement. And I think it went really well. And as a matter of fact, we
got lots of questions, particularly about safety and security. But it was a really good start and a commitment
to engage more regularly with this body, which includes elected officials and business folks.
And then shortly thereafter, I participated in the Jefferson County Transportation Advisory Council at their
semi-quarterly or bi-quarterly meeting and just reported on the same activities. And I wanted to thank the
team that puts together our monthly reports after these Board meetings.
You can pick and choose and use those as really good talking points when you meet with elected officials.
So I want to thank that process. [COUGHS] Excuse me. I'm choking. But it's really a good tool. And I've
used them effectively just this last month, so thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just real quick-- and this is positive. We don't always get a lot
of positive feedback, but I went to the City of Lone Tree State of the City, and it was their 30th anniversary
of being a city. And I counted no fewer than five commendations for partnership from Lone Tree to RTD.
And I almost asked, is there another RTD? Is it a different department or something in Lone Tree? No. This
was a appreciation from Lone Tree for the work everybody is doing in this room. So to put aside any discord
for a second, you should all be proud of that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director O'Keefe Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I had a town hall with Mayor Coffman this last week, and it was really exciting,
very well received. And again, I also appreciate the slides that they put together. I tweaked them a little bit
in terms of how many there are because there are quite a few. But I was able to take a lot of questions. It
was a really well-received town hall, so I appreciate that.

And I also have two more town halls scheduled. One is with Councilman Stephanie Hancock. Her district
overlaps mine along with Council Member Sundberg. His area also connects with mine as well, overlays
my district. So I'm really getting out into the city of Aurora.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to note a couple of meeting events. Director Buzek
and I attended Thornton Transportation Study Session on the 15th, Included CDOT, and the two of us, and
also Mr. Sirois and Mr. Carter to talk about mostly the action of CDOT to do something constructively about
I-25 and the segments going through Commerce City, Northglenn, Thornton, and a number of other cities.
And most of it was regard to the construction timeline, and so on, and so forth for CDOT. But obviously,
there was some questions regarding transit service and service at the 88th Avenue Park and Ride, so on,
and so forth. Very positive meeting again, and great job by Bill and Jessie and filling in the blanks when
CDOT spiked the volleyball over there way. And so I appreciated that.
Also, to give another accolade for Mr. Summers and his slideshows-- certainly utilized that in presenting to
lead Metro North in mid April as well. And as I was giving the presentation, I was assisted by one of the
members of our CAC, who is in that class and also a very active new member on our Advisory Committee.
And then almost monthly, Director Buzek and I attend North Area Transit Association. NATA, I don't report
on every month. No need for that. But just want to make sure that you all know that that's an august group
of municipal and County leaders up in North Metro. And we are always called upon to give a report on
what's new at RTD. And oftentimes, we have Mr. Davies there, especially during the legislative session. So
I appreciate him. So I'll wrap up by just saying, kudos to staff and all the things you do to make us look
good.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Here, here. Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I attended a bunch of events with some of the other RTD staff members,
the Denver South event, the Transportation Solutions annual meeting, and also spoke with Downtown
Denver Partnership and the city DOTI staff about the creation of a downtown EcoPass district similar to
what Boulder has to start that conversation. I also met with the city council member for Cherry Creek and
the BID there, as well as Transportation Solutions to talk about the creation of a transit plan for Cherry
Creek.
They have expressed significant interest in getting a transit plan set up and have been pushing me very
heavily to try and help move the opportunity forward to get something where they can really try and invest
in public transit in Cherry Creek and partner with us on that. So there's a lot of interest out there and folks
willing to consider EcoPass districts, willing to consider additional partnerships, and really excited to see
where that goes in the coming months.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Any further Directors? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I concur with my colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Summers, for your
slides. They're very helpful to us, even if we just need a recap. My favorite slide was the Vision Zero one.
Thanks. And my apologies to the Board Chair because I cannot keep up with the form. So if perhaps we
could do something like a summary, maybe not live, but I don't want folks to think I'm not engaging with the
constituents.

So I responded to-- I had eight constituent calls-- two RNO calls, four meetings on paratransit, and 12 plus
or minus-- it's late-- on our Title VI proposal, which the agency has been communicating out to the public
for a couple of months now, but all of which were positive. And I just wanted to report that back.
The meetings that I've noted here are ones that are external to the agency, not any internal meetings.
These are constituent district based. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Any further Directors? And on that PSA, yes,
I do know this. I know the form can be tedious. It should take less than 30 seconds in all honesty. But I
please keep up and keep track of the forms because the hope is, at the end of the year-- and if you need
help with the forms, I will sacrifice some time and help out as well.
But the big thing is at the end of the year is that just to see, again, for a position where my full-time job as
a teacher, we get paid $12,000 to do this position. And just to see at the end of the year how much
interactions, how many engagements we're having, and it's music to my ears to hear from all of you about
how involved you are with your communities and your stakeholders. So I love to hear that. And fill out the
form. OK, any other matters? Yes, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Really quick-- just a reminder, we have our call for partnership still active. And there
is a deadline. I believe it's the 14th of May. So, community, if you're listening, please, please, please file for
your grant applications for partnership because that's how we get down in the local level.
We are looking out always for the Regional Transportation District, but we partner with our local members
to be able to provide additional services where they are needed, where we may not be best suited to provide
that service in our planning, but we can work with you to do it in yours. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guzman. Any other matters? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Just two-- so on the matter of the form. I was actually going to bring this
up. So I don't know if that was directed at me about filling out the form. But it would be helpful feedback, if
you don't mind. The form asks us to fill it out every time we respond to a constituent.
I do not have staff, and I'm expending a lot of hours between Chair duties and regular duties, which is why
maybe we can make adjustments on the form itself or the required fields. I know how to do homework. I
also have to sleep. So with that, we can take that offline and maybe be open to feedback about how the
form works.
I did also just want to say-- I don't know if this is other matters, but it's time to bring it up. I'm also guilty of
this. We're not all speaking into our microphones. And today, I think, perhaps just with the passing of former
Director Broom, we were a bit quiet. It was hard for CART to keep up.
And so if you look at the transcripts, there are a lot of ellipses. So I was also guilty of this. And I would just
remind folks to speak into your microphone. Additionally, a shout out to Director Paglieri, who often
announces who he is, which is also a best practice in terms of accessibility. And I forget that more often
than I don't. So I just wanted to say-- and thank you to everybody for being gracious because CART was
cutting out today. Thank you for being gracious with me. That's all I have.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Just quick comment-- I would double check the form itself. It
should just be major stakeholder. I should say, major stakeholders. It should be stakeholder engagements,

not necessarily constituents. So I just want to clarify that. Any other matters? OK, seeing none. Motion to
adjourn? Director Chandler. Thank you. And we are adjourned as of 9:02.

‭greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com‬

‭Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, April 29th, 2025‬
‭April 29th, 2025‬
‭Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair‬
‭Regional Transportation District‬
‭1660 Blake Street‬
‭Denver, CO 80202‬
‭Dear Chair Bouquet,‬
‭Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topics:‬
‭Slow Zones Post Mortem / Delay Investigation‬
‭GDT would like to acknowledge the progress made in addressing the state-of-good-repair infrastructure‬
‭problems behind the slow zones on the Light Rail network, but remains deeply concerned about the damage to‬
‭ridership from the sustained periods of unreliability due to the apparently reactive way this situation was‬
‭handled.‬
‭Before the book is closed on this issue, we request a report to be provided to the Board and shared with the‬
‭general public on why the repairs took so much longer than management originally expected and what could‬
‭be done differently should a similar situation occur in the future.‬
‭Light Rail Fare Check Appreciation‬
‭GDT is greatly appreciative and supportive of the presence of additional trained staff aboard RTD Light Rail‬
‭vehicles in recent weeks. Several of our members have reported fare inspections being conducted on the Light‬
‭Rail network starting in April 2025 after experiencing years of seeing nobody from RTD aboard the trains apart‬
‭from the operator.‬
‭This is critical progress that we want to thank RTD Management for its part in actioning. GDT continues to‬
‭believe in the proactive presence of RTD outreach staff in disincentivizing illegal behaviors that have been‬
‭damaging RTD’s reputation with both riders and operators before it even happens, and it is the proactive‬
‭nature we hope can be built upon.‬
‭This is not just about seeing more security bodies - RTD’s Impact Team pilot has done critical work in helping‬
‭make connections between vulnerable riders and resources from city and state partners. The need for trained‬
‭mental health outreach staff being out on the network remains critical, and while resources are constrained, it‬
‭is vital that trained mental health outreach professionals remain one of the core elements of RTD’s outreach‬
‭strategy that is out and riding the system.‬

‭www.greaterdenvertransit.com‬

‭Page‬‭1‬

‭greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com‬

‭Thanks for all you do,‬

‭James Flattum‬

‭Richard Bamber‬

‭Emma Griffin‬

‭Joe Meyer‬

‭CC:‬

‭RTD Board of Directors‬
‭Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO‬

‭www.greaterdenvertransit.com‬

‭Page‬‭2‬

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Riley Peters <riley.alaneop@gmail.com>
Tuesday, April 29, 2025 1:27 PM
RTD Board Office
RTD ongoing issues.

To Whom This May Concern,
I am writing to express my growing frustration and disappointment with the current state of the RTD
transit system in Denver, particularly during ongoing construction projects. The lack of clear logistics,
foresight, and rider-centered planning has created daily challenges for countless commuters like myself
who rely on RTD to get to work, school, and essential appointments.
Frequent service interruptions, delays without warning, and poor communication have made public
transportation in our city increasingly unreliable. It's not just inconvenient—it's disruptive. Early morning
routes are often canceled or delayed with no prior notice. Trains and buses are frequently late, over
capacity, or rerouted, and real-time tracking systems rarely reflect these changes accurately.
Ongoing construction projects, while necessary for long-term improvement, seem poorly managed and
poorly timed. There is rarely a clear timeline provided to riders, and alternative routes or
accommodations are either inadequate or non-existent. What’s worse, there is a noticeable lack of
transparency and public accountability regarding the causes of these delays and disruptions.
RTD’s digital tools and communication systems are also severely lacking. The trip-planning resources
are often outdated or inaccurate, and alerts about service changes come too late—if they come at all.
This leaves riders scrambling to piece together a commute with unreliable information. Many of us
depend on this system every day, and the current state of operations makes that dependence feel like a
risk.
RTD’s mission is to serve the public, yet the system as it stands is doing a disservice to its riders. I urge
RTD leadership to take immediate steps to improve communication, streamline construction impacts,
and prioritize the rider experience. We need a transit system that works for the people it’s meant to
serve.
Sincerely,
Riley Peters

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Michael McBride <mbmcb2@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 16, 2025 4:35 PM
RTD.Directors
Denver to Longmont

Please expand service to include trains (Amtrak) throughout the state.

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Tai-Shrae Parish
Monday, May 12, 2025 11:37 AM
Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
FW: Uber/lyft voucher program for people with IDD

‐‐‐‐‐Original Message‐‐‐‐‐
From: Sue <mssdmyers@comcast.net>
Sent: Thursday, April 3, 2025 10:16 AM
To: RTD.Directors <RTD.Directors@groups.rtd‐denver.com>
Subject: Uber/ly voucher program for people with IDD
Good morning
As the mother of a 35 year old son with Intellectual and Developmental Disabili es, I would like to express my concern
over the possibility of the Uber/ly voucher program being limited to those who live within a mile of an exis ng RTD bus
stop. It is precisely those who live farther away from a bus stop that need transporta on to get to their jobs, day
programs, shopping, and community ac vi es.
We live just over a mile from a bus stop and my son uses Uber daily. Cu ng the uber services for him just because he
lives slightly farther away makes no sense. That his is only way to access the community.
Please maintain the Uber/Ly program for All RTD riders not just those who live near a bus stop.
Thank you.
Suzan Myers
2908 Casalon Circle
Superior Co 80027
3035170013
Sent from my iPad

1

