2021-07-13
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good evening. I would like to call to order the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time on July 13, 2021. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to unmute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video record. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, please press star 6.
Note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested
in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting. For future
meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal located at rtd.iqm2.com.
At RTD, as you all know, safety is our core value, and I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety
briefing. While recent public health orders have relaxed requirements for the use of face coverings in
certain settings, please don't let your guard down too soon. As a reminder, the Transit Security
Administration, TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public transportation until September
13, 2021. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while waiting
for and while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train stations, and trains, bus
stops, and buses. RTD also requires that employees and customers continue to wear face coverings, and
RTD is taking a cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices to ensure the safety
of our employees and customers.
Transit continues to be an extremely safe way to travel, and there have been no clusters of positive cases
linked to transit in the Denver metro area. So again, please consider getting vaccinated if you have not
done so already, wear your face covering in settings where one is required, practice physical distancing,
and continue good hygiene practices, and we will end this pandemic sooner than later. Thank you. Let's
see. Have the other directors joined the meeting? Yes, I see Director Guissinger has. Has Director
Davidson joined us today? Yes. Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So we have 14 directors present, one absent, that would be Director Dishell. We have
three recommended actions on the agenda this evening. Our first recommended action is for the Board of
Directors to improve-- to approve, not improve-- the internal audit function charter. And, do I have a
motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. I have Director Malpiede as a mover. And the second, was that Director
Lewis?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And before we proceed with discussion, we will have a brief Board presentation
beginning with our CEO and General Manager, Debra Johnson. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, and good evening. As introduced, I am Debra
Johnson, the General Manager and CEO. I am before you this evening to present the internal audit
function charter for your consideration, which will guide the RTD's Audit Work Group.
The internal audit function adheres to the Institute of Internal Auditors International Professional Practices
Framework. RTD's internal audit function charter was last approved by this Board in December-- or I
should say in 2017. Please note this charter differs from the Board of Directors audit committee charter
which details the work of the Board Audit Committee. The consideration and adoption of staff's
recommendation supports one of several recommendations provided to this agency in May by the
American Public Transportation Association's peer review panel lists of which I convene following the
recommendations put forth by the Office of the State Auditor in December of 2020.
I would like to thank you, Madam Chair, and Mr. Vice Chair, Erik Davidson, as well as Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, the Manager of Internal and IT Audit, as well as John McKay, Executive Business Partner here in
the Executive Office, and Barbara McManus from the Board Office for working collectively and
cooperatively with me in bringing this item to fruition for the Committee's consideration. Madam Chair that
concludes my brief report.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would also like to reiterate my thanks to the Working Group for getting this
ready and would also like to emphasize that it is very much in keeping with the standards that we are
looking to adopt and that we hope to use this as the cornerstone for moving forward with our formal
committee charter as well as well as amending our bylaws for the Board. Is there any discussion? I see
Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. will we be receiving quarterly reports on our progress towards
meeting the issues that were brought up by the state?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I believe that the internal audit function charter makes reference to periodic
updates. Because this group will be under the supervision of the Board, and at the behest of the Board,
we could request updates as frequently as we would want. So I guess that that's kind of a roundabout
way of saying yes, we can.
And if you want to formalize it, we could make that suggestion as a part of an amendment to the motion.
I'm sorry, Director Broom. I think you're on mute.
BOB BROOM: Could somebody speak to that as to whether a quarterly's too often or what they would
recommend?
PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, under other items, I was going to address this. But just for clarification
sake which I think will be better for the Board at this juncture, there was a couple of elements that we
anticipate going forward with and first and foremost that would be to retain professional services to help
us guide our path forward as relates to modifying and basically adopting a practice that is in compliance
with the standards. More specifically, what I'd like to share is that RTD will release a request for proposals
no later than Friday of this week, seeking that professional expertise that I just referenced in developing
and implementing improvements to the agency's internal audit function. And so the intent really is to align
the internal audit function with recognized audit standards and practices, as I indicated in my brief report
previously, to the Institute of Internal Auditors International Professional Practice Framework, as well as to
ensure the efficacy of this function according to auditing best practices.
And then more so, implement recommendations as I qualified from the Colorado Office of State Auditor
as well as APTA's internal peer review. So with all that as the backdrop, the outcome of these services
will provide RTD with a clearer internal audit structure to find the resources necessary to implement this
structure and define the foundational processes, procedures, and reporting necessary for a highperforming corporate governance structure.
So with that, without getting into too many specifics relative to the solicitation, the intent is to have us be
provided with information that will be optimal for us to go forward, you specifically as a governing body,
adhering to benchmarking as well as best practices with other agencies in similar size, especially as we
look at maximizing the efficiencies of our enterprise by reducing risk. So with that as the backdrop, we
anticipate coming back to you with the help of a consultant, most likely in the fall, outlining where we are
to adhere to all the recommendations that have been set forward. I hope that answers your question.
If not, I am able and ready to address any more specifics that will aid you in this consideration of this item.
Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Broom, does that satisfy your question?
BOB BROOM: Well, it does. But I think if you don't get regular reports, sometimes things slip through the
cracks. That's my concern. And this particular issue has been slipping through the cracks since I've been
on the Board. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. And it's incumbent upon us as the Board to request those briefings as often as
we feel necessary. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, actually that was what I was going to raise too based on our experience
previously. It did seem as though if it was up to us to initiate that request, it might not happen. It might slip
through the cracks as Director Broom said. And then also in doing some of the background work that
Director Tisdale and I had done in looking at committee structures, I ran across agencies who would
actually have a standing meeting once a quarter or some period of time where they would look at the
audit items. And it seemed like that evidence, the greater attention that I think the peer review committee
had said, they did recommend quarterly updates.
So whether we specify it here or later, I hope we're able to make sure it's something that's not just
initiated by the Board of the Audit Committee, but that it's something that's brought forward and is known
by staff and our Chief Audit Executive to be brought forward and so she'll be prepared for that or
something. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Are there any other comments about the internal audit
function charter? Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Can you hear me OK?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I'm having connectivity issues, my apologies. I just would like to echo the
sentiments and say thank you very much, especially to Chair Catlin and to CEO and General Manager
Johnson. This has been, I would just assure the other directors, a lot of work has gone into making sure
that this does align with the standards. I think it's very clear that this is the next step we need to take.
Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for highlighting that we will be putting forward an RFP to get some additional
expertise to help with those next steps. Director Broom, I think you mentioned the need to address the
state audit concerns. That will be a major part of that RFP and that expertise.
So anyway, I just wanted to say that. Thank you. And make sure to clarify that this is a very important
vote for us to take and an important yes that we need to cast. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Cook, I see your hand is raised. Do you have
additional comments? No. OK.
Are there any other comments? If not, we'll proceed to the vote. I guess to expedite things, I would ask
right now if there are any no votes on this motion.
Seeing none, the vote the motion passes, 14 in favor, 1 absent, that being Director Dishell. The second
recommended action that we have is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution number-- to be
determined-- series of 2021 to amend and appropriate funds to Increase the 2021 amended budget by
$194.6 million to $1,816,700. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll move. Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams. Is there a—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Rivera-Malpiede. Now I would like to have the General Manager CEO Johnson
kick this off and then followed by a presentation from our CFO Doug MacLeod. General Manager CEO
Johnson, please, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very kindly for the opportunity. And in doing so, my introduction will
be short, because we are in great hands with our subject matter expert being our Chief Financial Officer
who will present to you the 2020 amended budget as it relates to where we currently stand, as it relates to
unforeseen funding that we have had and decisions that were made prior to us knowing the circumstance
that we do know now. So with that, Mr. MacLeod, I will yield the floor to you for your presentation. Thank
you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Catlin, and thank you, General Manager Johnson. I am joined this
evening by Todd Nickel. Todd Nickel oversees our budget development process, so he's here to help me
answer any specific questions. Before I start the presentation, just a couple of items.
There is one attachment that we included in the package that we will be replacing. It's attachment B. We
did upload the wrong attachment. I apologize for that. That is the change in capital expenditures.
However, we do list those out in the presentation as well the Board items. So that will be updated
tomorrow for the Board package for the full Board to consider next week. Also wanted to mention that we
have made available a hard copy for public viewing in the Board Office, as is required. We knew that
each time we post the budget for consideration. So that is available for the public in addition to the
electronic copy that's available on the Board website.

So with that, I will share my screen. And I have a 10 slide presentation to go through. OK.
So within the Board package that you have, there's a lot more detail regarding the budget and what
specific changes are going to be made pending Board approval. This slide presentation is really intended
to hit the highlights, and then we can answer any specific questions you may have afterwards or leading
up to the full Board meeting. So let's see. There we go.
OK, just to go through the adopted budget background to go back in time and talk about where we were
the last time the Board appropriated the budget for RTD. So in November 2020-- a lot has been learned
since that time, but in November 2020, the Board did approve the adopted budget for 2021. There was a
lot of uncertainty at that time. In fact, the mid-term financial plan was only approved for two of the six
years at that time, because there was so much uncertainty.
But within the adopted budget that we're currently working under, it assumed that we would maintain our
service levels at 60% of the pre-COVID levels. It also assumed that there would be layoffs, furloughs, and
pay reductions enacted starting in January of 2021. There would be no new capital expenditures with two
exceptions. There were two small items, relatively small, a $16 million new capital expenditure for electric
buses and a $1 million expenditure for some information technology needs. All other capital expenditures
have been delayed just due to the financial issues that were being faced at the time.
And then finally, the other big item was a deferral of all state of good repair maintenance projects, so this
is related to the capital expenditures. We had several-- we have about $200 million in backlogged capital
expenditures requiring state of good repair. A good portion of those backlogged expenditures are
replacement of vehicles, particularly buses. All of those state of good repair projects were pushed off into
2022 and beyond due to funding constraints. So that's where we were in November of 2020.
So the purpose of the amended budget is to allow us to amend budgets at any time throughout the year
at the Board's discretion and with the Board's approval to change the appropriation. So generally, we
come to the Board with those amendments when they are required. Since so much has changed since
the adoption of the 2021 amended budget, we do need to make some changes that we'd like the Board to
consider.
The purpose of an amended budget is to continue to restrict expenditures to authorized uses so RTD staff
cannot spend funding unless the Board appropriates. It's also just to adjust from the information and
needs. Our budgetary controls are fairly specific, so when the Board approves an appropriation, those
appropriations are by project, by line item, et cetera. So in order to change that, we do need Board
approval if it exceeds a certain threshold.
So here is a summary of the specific changes that have occurred since the 2021 adopted budget was
approved in November. So we do know that fare revenue is trending lower than what was budgeted. The
initial budget, the adopted budget assumed $88 million in fare revenue. That was just the best guess at

the time. There was assumptions made that ridership recovery would happen a little bit faster than it has
happened in the first six months.
So RTD had budgeted $88 million in fare revenue. Right now we're trending more on the range of $60
million. So you'll see the numbers here shortly of what that looks like in our new budget.
We did receive a sales and use tax forecast update from the University of Colorado Leeds School of
Business. We receive that twice a year and incorporate that in our budgets. So the March sales and use
tax forecast was presented to the Board in April. Those new numbers are what will be incorporated in this
amended budget if approved.
We also found out in January about the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations
Act, also known as CRRSAA. That is a $203 million relief appropriation, COVID relief appropriation from
the FTA. We found about that after the budget was appropriated, and we would like to incorporate that in
the amended budget.
I should also mention there was a third appropriation. So the first was the CARES Act in 2020. We have
the CRRSAA Act that we apportioned in January and executed the award in May. We were also, in
March, apportioned a new round of funding called the ARPA Act, American Rescue Plan Act. That
appropriation is $338 million.
We just yesterday received guidance on the appropriate expenditures for that ARPA award, and we will
be bringing that to the Board to discuss intended uses at a future date. But generally, that guidance
follows exactly the same as the CARES and the CRRSAA, which is really to maintain operations. There
are a couple of different items attached to that ARPA funding, particularly the time frame in which it must
be drawn. However, it should be used for maintaining operations, paying payroll, et cetera.
Other items that we've learned since then is because of the CRRSAA funding we have, as the Board
knows, enhanced our service. We did call back our laid-off frontline employees in January immediately.
So we've been bearing the cost of those wages and compensation for benefits since that time and will
continue to do so with the June and September run boards where service is being enhanced. We did
have a large refinancing of one of our FasTracks bond series.
That saved $129 million. We will recognize about $20 million this year. And then we've had a few state of
good repair companies that have arisen. So to break this down into the components of what will change
with the amended budget versus the 2021 adopted budget, the revenue will change by $212 million in
total. That consists of lower fare revenue going from $88 million down to $68 million projected for fare
revenue, so a $20 million decrease there.
The CU Leeds forecast projects higher sales and use tax revenues of 28 million and I would say at least
through May. We just received those numbers, and we are trending even actually a little bit above where
CU Leeds had anticipated we'd be. So that looks like a pretty solid number there.

And then grant revenue, we'd like to increase that by $204.3 million. And just as a note, the Board does
not necessarily appropriate revenue, that's an estimate. The Board appropriates the other side which is
the expenditure side as well as fund balances. So this is just setting the stage for how do we afford to pay
for these increases that we are requesting in the amended budget.
So on the operating expense side, what we're asking the Board to approve is a $59.1 million increase in
the 2021 budget. The majority of that is tied to the service restoration, so with the new run boards and the
retainage of frontline employees and the associated costs due to those activities. $49.3 million of $59
million is attributable to surface restoration.
We also discussed with the Board earlier this year and received Board approval to eliminate the planned
furloughs, pay cuts. There are also over time items. And a lot of the overtime is basically built into
schedules of operators. That was eliminated in the 2021 budget.
That has been restored or eliminated in terms of the furloughs and pay cuts. That has a cost of $4.7
million. And this was discussed when we talked about the CRRSAA appropriation of funding and the
plans for RTD to spend that. We do have some facilities maintenance needs of $2 million that would fall
under operating expenses. Almost half of that is due to Safer Main Streets grants, so that will be partially
funded by the grant itself.
We also have the fare study and equity analysis. The initial estimate for the cost of that is $2 million. That
will be refined over time. But we'd like to have an appropriation of $2 million to kick that process off-- or to
fund that process. It's already been kicked off.
And then we have some miscellaneous needs including some cybersecurity needs, recruiting of
employees for the new run boards, and some other IT needs that have arisen since that initial budget was
approved by the Board. And then finally, you can see we have an interest expense decrease of $20.5
million. That will all be realized by FasTracks, of course.
Moving into the capital expenditure realm. So we do have some pretty critical needs that have arisen in
the last six months. We knew about these items. Each one of these items is on the state of good repair
asset management list. As I mentioned, all of these projects have been pushed off into 2022 or later
because of funding issues. Those items have become very critical in certain cases in terms of safety
compliance, et cetera, and we'd really like to get those items fixed now that we believe we have the
funding to do so.
We have some issues at East Metro with mechanic pits. Those are the pits that the mechanics are in
when the bus parks on top of it so they can work on the underside of the vehicles. We have lifts, hoists,
and crane replacements that are necessary. Some of those issues have to do with the new rolling stock
that we're getting. So with electric buses, our current hoist won't lift those heavier buses with the batteries.

But most of that equipment is very old at this point, hard to find parts, and is in critical need of
replacement.
The Oracle upgrade, this was approved in previous budgets but was delayed. So the current version of
Oracle that we are working on, Oracle was initially-- its enterprise resource system, ERP, is our main
system for our financial records right now. We had already converted part of that over to Workday for the
HR functions and some payroll functions.
The remainder of Oracle software that we use generally for procurement and finance. All of our financial
records are in there. That version, R12, is no longer supported. We originally installed this Oracle in 2008
and have upgraded to the extent possible to the more recent versions, but now Oracle won't support this
current version.
Everything's moving to hosted services or software as a service platforms. So we had started the process
of replacing Oracle. We estimate that has to be about $4 million. We had gathered all the business
requirements, then the COVID crisis hit, and we put that on hold. And we would like to start that up. That's
about an 18 month replacement project.
We have not yet identified a replacement application. That would be a part of the process if this funding is
approved. And then I won't go through the rest of these, but these are other critical items that have arisen
that require additional funding. The other item I should mention is capital expenditure carryforward. This
can be a little confusing.
So we talked about $13.1 million in new capital. New capital is new capital that we had not ever budgeted
or appropriated for previously. There is previously appropriated capital that we carry forward. So if you
can imagine, we have a lot of projects that span fiscal years. And each year, the Board approves a fiscal
year budget.
So some of these larger projects that we have the expenditures for then will cross over into the next fiscal
year. When the budget is adopted in November, we don't know exactly what that carryover will be, and so
we do an estimate. So once we get past year-end, we know exactly how much will be carried over. So we
need to adjust that amount by $69.2 million. And essentially what happens is the funding was already
identified and appropriated in the previous year, we're just bringing that funding and the expenditure
forward to say it will be spent in the current year.
So to summarize the components of what we're asking for in the amended budget, so we have the
revenue increase of $212 million, operating expense increase of $59 million, a $20 million decrease in
interest expense, new CapEx of $13.1 million, the carryforward of $69.2 million. And then this shows as a
negative, but essentially, that difference of $73 million goes into the unrestricted fund balance. So
essentially, we're building up our fund balances to be used at a future date.

The CRRSAA funding is included in the $212 million and $204 million. And we had discussed with the
Board using that CRRSAA funding over six run boards. So we've included two run boards here. The
difference would fall into our unrestricted fund balance to be used at a future date.
The total additional appropriation is 194.6 with 73.96 million of that going into our savings or our fund
balance account. The reason why the 212 does not equal the 194 is we had some adjustments when you
look at the adopted budget versus the amended budget. There were certain assumptions with some of
the fund balances.
For instance, you may recall that we discussed using some of the FasTracks funds to help fund
FasTracks. That no longer was applicable. So that accounts for part of that difference between the 212
and 194. So regardless, the full funding is included in the Board package itself. And I'd be happy to
answer any questions on that here in a few minutes.
So, what happens next? So this is just the amended budget at midyear to amend 2021 to align our
expenditures with how we see that the rest of 2021 shaping up. We will be coming to the Board in the
September Board meetings with a draft mid-term financial plan. That's our six year plan for 2022 through
2027. That'll give a pretty good outlook of what the forecast is for the next six years, and I'm sure it will
generate plenty of discussion. And we will include ARPA funding, et cetera.
[DOGS BARKING] And that-- sorry. And in October, we'll be bringing the mid-term financial plan for full
approval to the Board, which will include the 2022 requested budget. So in our mid-term financial plan,
our very first year is the budget, requested budget. Then we have five years of forecast. So those
coincide.
The development of the mid-term financial plan helps us to develop the budget for 2022 based on
guidance from the Board of Directors. Then in November of 2021, this year, we would ask for the 2022
requested budget approval just like we did last November. So that's a look ahead of what's coming with
budgets and forecasts.
And then just some items to expect that we know about that we'll have to address and discuss. There's
still a lot of ridership and fare uncertainty. We hope that as more information comes in, as we experience
more actual ridership fare results as well as expenditure results throughout this year, we'll have a better
idea as we come into the final months of this year and ask for a forecast and a budget approval from the
Board. We still think that there's going to be constraints on our expenditures.
And we would, as part of the strategic plan we've discussed, aligning those expenditures with success
outcomes, so that will be a really important part of the policy decision making and how we align our
budget with what our success outcomes, as opposed to doing it the other way around where we address
individual issues. This way it should be targeted with what funding we have available to achieve those
success outcomes in the strategic plan.

And then, of course, the one big item looming out there is addressing the assets state of good repair. We
intend to really clean up that list and really go through it with a fine-tooth comb again now that we have
more information and bring to the Board those critical items that we think need to be funded to maintain
the assets that we do have in a state of good repair. So Madam Chair, that is all that I have for this
presentation. And Todd and I would be happy to take any questions.
You're on mute, Chair. Madam Chair, you're on mute. We can't hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I apologize. I do see that Director Rosenthal has his hand raised. Director
Rosenthal, do you have a question of Mr. MacLeod?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for that update. So you
briefly mentioned the reserves. And when do you anticipate that that would be up to the three months that
we were hoping for?
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. And with the current calculation, and we did put in the Board memo,
that with this budget, with the amended budget, we would be up to 4.1 months of reserves. The fiscal
policy sets a target of 3 months. So that 4.1 months is above our fiscal target. The big reason for that is
because we are getting funding from the CRRSAA funding. However, that funding will be spread out over
several years.
So it's a little inflated at this point. Where we're drawing down that CRRSAA funding right now brings up
our fund balance to four months of operating expenses. But I would anticipate as we go through time and
expend that money, we'll come back down to the three month parameters.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And it is OK with the federal parameters that allot-- because if the money is
supposed to go towards retaining employees and operations, I guess, is reserves considered part of
operations for their purposes?
DOUG MACLEOD: Not necessarily for the grant draws themselves. So in terms of the grants, these
COVID relief grants are very similar to all of our other grants in that we must expend eligible funds first,
then ask for reimbursement. Those grants require that we draw those funds based on those eligible
expenditures. So in the case of these three apportionments, those all require operating expenses to be
used to draw that funding.
So what we're doing is we're drawing the funding from CRRSAA, for instance, based on wages and
benefits for our frontline employees, as well as purchase transportation for bus and rail. So we are
drawing that funding for its intended purposes, for the FTA. So what's happening with the other funding
that you'll see that doesn't apply to those purposes is we're using sales and use taxes, that it's basically
RTD money.

But yes, as we draw that funding, we're using expenditures that FTA said you should use to maintain your
services which we've done, for instance, keeping employees employed rather than layoffs. And then any
of the money that we don't spend falls down into our reserves to be used for a later date.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Two other quick questions. So in terms of-- oh, if I may, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. So are there any other employees who are still furloughed or laid off at this
point? Because I did get an email from someone who said he was still either furloughed or laid-off.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'll ask General Manager Johnson to respond to that please. So thank you very much
for that question, Mr. MacLeod. So in reference to your question, Director Rosenthal, without having an
understanding of what employee you're referencing, of which we would not talk specifically here, but
recognizing we recalled all of our frontline employees, there could have been some other reduction in
force that did not fall within those auspices of front line employees.
So to the extent of the answer to your question, yes, all frontline operators and mechanics were recalled
as indicated. There are some that decided not to rejoin the RTD. But at this juncture, we are not
leveraging any furloughs nor are we engaged in active reductions in force.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It does. And I had forwarded the email to the Board Office, so perhaps they're still
researching it and looking into that matter. And then the final question, so Mr. MacLeod, you mentioned
some outstanding maintenance that still has to be done. And obviously, you have a priority list of things
that some are super duper important and some are super important, and then you go down the line.
So for example, the Dayton Station, it looks very rusty. And I'm wondering so in terms of stations like that
need a paint job and need to be restored a bit, where do they fit in that list? Approximately, obviously.
You may not have the list in front of you, I totally get that, but it would be nice to know kind of generally
where they fit. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: I'll ask Henry Stopplecamp to reply to that please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yeah. So if I may, Madam Chair. Can anybody hear me? OK. Now I'll go
ahead.
BOB BROOM: We can hear you.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. So as far as the Dayton Station, we've just finished doing three plus
stations across the district. And ranking them in order of priority, the Dayton Station, believe it or not, is
number 26 out of like 32 or 33. It is not the prettiest, but it's structurally sound.
And so we're looking at the structures, we're looking at ADA accessibility, and degradation, and then we
get into the aesthetics. So that's why Dayton, and I agree with you, does not look good. But compared to
the other stations structurally and functionally, it is better than a lot of them.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: I believe we may have lost the Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think we may have. I've just been reaching out to her. I'll go ahead and go in order
here. Director Broom, looks like you have-- first of all, Dr. Rosenthal, did that answer your questions?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, it did. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr Chair. Are we getting ourselves into a position where we're heavily
dependent upon federal appropriations to deal with the COVID-19 situation? Someday that money is
going to come to an end. How do we make sure that we don't build ourselves into too big of a budget that
we were are not going to be able to afford once those federal funds start to dry up?
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. This is Doug MacLeod. And so yes, that is very much a concern of
RTD staff. And General Manager Johnson, we've discussed that at length internally. One of the things
that we're trying to be very careful of is to be very judicious with how we allocate this spending. So with
the CRRSAA funding, when we received that funding, we decided we need to spread this over a period of
time rather than spending it immediately, not knowing what the future holds. Same probably will go with
the ARPA funding, so it's really intended to bridge the gap.
And what we're really trying to avoid is to get into a situation where we're using one-time funding, that
won't be recovered or stabilized on a long-term basis, for ongoing costs. So for instance, our 85% service
levels that have been suggested with the new run board, so 85% of pre-COVID levels. Part of that is
staffing levels. Part of that is also funding levels.
We need to be very careful that we don't expend these one-time funds on recurring expenses only to find
ourselves back in the same position that we were in earlier in 2020. So I don't know if General Manager
Johnson, do you want to add anything to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And Director Broom, thank you very much
for that question. And to the point that Mr. MacLeod raised, especially going back to Director Rosenthal's

comments about employees and reduction in force, that's why we are using the moneys as intended to
support operations. We want to ensure that we have people power so we can provide a level of service
that is warranted.
And as we go forward, we're going to evaluate the level of service to meet the needs in which are readily
apparent on the streets but also not exceed the amount of revenue hours that we can allocate in our
budget. So as we go forward, and MacLeod referenced the success outcomes, tying that all together. So
as we do budgetary planning, we are doing it in such a way to optimize the resources in which we have
recognizing through the American Public Transportation Association's dialogues that I've been involved
with, that we are optimistic that there could be a resurgence as it relates to ridership levels sometime in
the 2023 or 2024 time frame. Which these monies, as he indicated, the ARPA funds are there to help
bridge the gap as we go forward.
So that's something that we were looking at with a laser-like focus and we'll be sure to keep you all
apprised as we go forward in any type of budget developmental processes. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal? And forgive me, I lost my internet
connection momentarily, so I missed some of that. But—
PAUL ROSENTHAL: We're actually on the Director Broom right now. He had asked a question about—
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sustainability and the federal funding and the budgeting, et cetera.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Are you finished, Director Rosenthal? Because I think next in the queue is Director
Lewis.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Looks like Director Davidson apparently Director Broom, I guess. Apologies to
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good. I'll speak. I appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do appreciate it. Doug, I really appreciate this
presentation, and it's very thorough. I'm very excited that we are beginning to build our unrestricted fund
balance. That is something I get excited about now in my 30s, and so thank you for that.
I had a quick question about the deferred projects list. Because it appears that we are maybe chipping
away at that a bit, which is also very exciting for me. And I'm curious as to what percentage, if you might,
or what is still left over on that list as we are beginning to chip away a bit in this conversation?

PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod, can you answer that or—
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for the question, Director Lewis. And
that's a great question. Asset management oversees the state of good repair and the state of our assets.
They're constantly refining that list.
The last list that we had was in November 2005. There's been some changes to that, and they're currently
working on updating that for the next mid-term financial planning process. At that point in time, there was
$205 million in backlog projects, so that's a significant number. I believe it was about 40% to 50% of that
was tied to buses. So approximately-- actually, it was about $60 or $70 million. So the bulk of the single
project needs in there was replacement of our buses, which had been started, but put on hold due to
COVID and funding constraints.
And our policy has been to try to avoid taking on more debt to buy rolling stock, so we're trying to fund
those with cash going forward to keep the cost lower. So that was put on hold. We have a whole lot of
other infrastructure type projects. Some things that come to mind is overhead catenary wire replacement,
those types of things, just to maintain a state of good repair.
We'll be refining that list, but I would assume that the magnitude is still in the $150 to $200 million range.
Because what's happened is we've kicked the can down the road, so to speak. So it's built up to $200
million in November of last year. And as we go through time, more assets need to be maintained and get
added to that list. So we're basically building that list.
And I think Henry could attest to the backlog of items that we have. But yes, we would intend to prioritize
those through that process and ask the Board to fund those as funding becomes available. And frankly,
the focus has really been to this point on opening new lines and putting things in place, which took a lot of
energy, a lot of resources. And now I think it'll be great to really address the state of good repair needs
and maintain what we do have. And I too am very happy about the unrestricted fund balance.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does, and I don't have any others. Thank you so, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Good question. Director Broom, your hand is still raised. Do you have
additional questions or comments? I believe you're still on mute.
BOB BROOM: Can you hear me now?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you.

BOB BROOM: OK. I was pushing the wrong black button here. The only question that's still out there for
me is, when is the end as far as how far you can push out this federal funding that you lose it because
you didn't use it?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And so it wasn't very specific on the CARES and the CRRSAA funding.
However, we're not too concerned with that. We've already drawn down all the CARES funding and the
CRRSAA funding we intend to draw down in this fiscal year. With the ARPA funding, that was a little more
specific from the FTA where they had set a time frame in which the funding for recipients has to be
obligated by September 30, 2024. And then all funding has to be drawn by September 30, 2029.
So the obligation would be to identify what expenditures will be used to draw that funding for that grant.
And then the 2029 date is when the grants close. So if you haven't drawn the money by 2029, you lose,
basically. So my assumption from those dates is that the FTA expects recipients to spread that money out
over that time frame and that they're not expecting to apportion additional funding.
So knowing that, that's one of the reasons why we're hopefully spreading the funding uses out. We will
draw that funding as quickly as we can, however.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good question. But I think that, as we discussed before, correct me if I'm wrong, Mr.
MacLeod, that we probably have more expenditures that are eligible than there are funds available. Is
that correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, absolutely right. In a typical year, we usually have-these are the same 5307 seven funds. That's a formula grant, so it's section 5307 grants. We have a
preventive maintenance grants that we draw every year in addition to these COVID grants that we
received.
We have way more than enough expenditures to draw the preventive maintenance grants. And we want
to be able to draw all three apportionments probably in a single year. But because we're spreading them
out over years, I anticipate for sure we'll be able to have enough expenditures to draw the CRRSAA
funding and maybe start drawing the ARPA funding this year as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other questions? Director Broom, did that answer your
question?
BOB BROOM: Yes, it did. Thank you very much.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Are there any other comments or questions of Mr. MacLeod? I think we will
proceed with the vote on the recommended action with Director Williams being the mover, Chair RiveraMalpiede being the second, also noting that Attachment B will be replaced for the full Board meeting next
week. And also a reminder that this is just amending the budget that was approved in November of 2020
for 2021. And that during the course of any year, we have an opportunity, as circumstances change, to
amend a budget again.
So with that, I'd like to call for a vote. Are there any-- and Director Broom, your hand is still up. I'm
assuming that's not a negative vote for the motion. But are there any directors who are opposed to this
motion?
If there are, I would ask you to raise your hand. Seeing none, the motion passes. 14 in favor, 1 absent.
Our third recommended action is for the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the RTD General Manager
or her designee to implement the transfer of $12 million from the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, the
FISA, to fund the Northwest rail peak service study and to enter into all required contracts to complete the
study within the Board-approved project budget. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, I would make the motion, reserving my right to make an amendment
after the discussion. And I plan to make that amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek seconding.
PEGGY CATLIN: Buzek, OK. Director Guissinger and Director Buzek. With that, I believe General
Manager and CEO Johnson has some introductory remarks and then Henry Stopplecamp, our AGM of
Capital Programs, will give a presentation. So General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you once again, Madam Chair. And good evening. As previously stated,
I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
So as a follow-up to the February 9, 2021 study session, which was focused on the Northwest Rail
corridor and subsequently, the April 6, 2021 presentation to the Board regarding developing a common
understanding to this agency's approach to assess the Northwest Rail peak service study, I committed to
this body that I would work in earnest and engage with our stakeholders, elected leaders representing the
corridor, the governor, as well as the congressional delegation.
And my team and I have done just that and met every milestone established before this body in February
and then later in April. Multiple meetings have taken place since this Board last met on the subject in April
and supported staff's approach for a level 2 study, including a planning and environmental review and
outreach, ranging in cost from $5 to $8 million. The culmination of those meetings with jurisdictional staff
aided in developing the recommendation for this body's consideration this evening.

Before I yield the floor to Mr. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs who will be
making the presentation this evening, as indicated by the Chair, I would like to thank him as well as Bill
Van Meter, our Assistant General Manager of Planning, and their respective staff for all of their hard work
they put forth in getting us to this point this evening. Moreover, I'd be remiss not to extend my
appreciation to our agency's partners, the jurisdictional staff, in particular, along with project corridor, who
provided invaluable assistance over the course of the past three months in developing this approach you
will hear about this evening.
I would ask at this juncture that all of you hold your questions until after Mr. Stopplecamp's presentation
as to enable for a more robust and engaged dialogue. Thank you for your cooperation. And with that, I will
now yield the virtual floor to Mr. Stopplecamp. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Henry, the floor is yours.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, thank you very much, General Manager and Madam Chair and Board
members. I'm going to try to share the screen. And I hopefully will have a screen that-- do you see the
Board of Directors Report on the screen?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. Thank you very much. Once again, Henry Stopplecamp, AGM of Capital
Programs. And tonight I bring to you the follow-up from previous discussions, as the General Manager
has pointed out, on the Northwest Rail peak service. And I won't go into the Board report.
Basically, the Board report is requesting two items. One is for the funding of the peak service study from
the FISA account, and then the second one is authorizing Ms. Johnson to enter into all required contracts
to push the study through. So I'm coming up to the first slide.
So this slide is slide 1 from the Board packet on page 52. So let's get started with this PowerPoint. And
we'll go through, and then we'll answer questions afterwards.
So wanted to go into the Northwest Rail implementation needs. This slide everybody has seen before.
We've had this in the April packet. But this really covers most of the key elements that are needed to be
examined in order to determine the impacts to the community, RTD, BNSF, and the overall cost for a
peak service operation. So back in April 6, 2021, we presented the Board basically three levels of study.
The Board supported the level 2 which included a planning and environmental linkage study, the PEL, to
look at some of the technology impacts, community involvement, the timeline of 18 to 24 months, and
around $5 to $8 million. Now, that number has increased, and I'll get into that in just a second. But the
elements included in that $12 million, it's not just the planning and environmental linkage study.

It is the BNSF doing their design and looking at their impacts. It's a modeling across the corridor. It's staff
time, project management support, and contingency within there.
Now, we have met with local jurisdictions and received their comments, the Front Range Passenger Rail,
and looking at positioning this project for all federal funding. So with that, the scope has increased. And
we're still trying to hold to the 18 months to 2 years. But as the scope and complexity changes, it does
affect the overall budget and time frame. And we'll get into that in a little bit more detail.
So, where are we today? So today-- we started back in March in 2021 after our briefing of the Board in
February of this year. But working with CDOT Front Range Passenger Rail on a memorandum of
understanding, we've been working with the BNSF to develop a scope of work for their design for the
corridor, modeling, this is the sidings, and what does the operations look like. And the goal is by the end
of 2021 puts us into hopefully, we'll have a PEL consultant on notice and ready to go forward.
Our goal is to issue the request for proposal later this summer. And so, what's included in that proposal?
And this gets down to what we promised to come back to the Board with an outline of the overall scope of
what we're looking at.
So from the operating plans, we're looking at travel times, looking at operators, headway schedule. In
order to position ourselves with federal funding, we're looking at bus operations, how the buses tie into
the corridors. On the preliminary design, we're looking at the impacts of the BNSF for the corridor, the
sidings, potential at-grade crossings, grade separations, and then the BNSF will be doing part of it, and
then the PEL consultant will also be taking on some of that role for the design side.
Environmental impacts, noise vibration, quiet zones, environmental justice issues will be examined.
Through the outcome of the design, we'll identify key properties that are needed. What are the impacts to,
once again, the communities so we can gather all that information and come up with the overall
understanding of the project. Key agreements, enter into any AGAs throughout the process. figure out
what is needed for the communities, what's needed for us, Colorado Public Utilities Commission, entering
into agreements with BNSF.
And then if the Front Range Passenger service looks like it's going forward with Amtrak, what are the
agreements we need to be in with them to help push the project forward? And the big one is the risk
mitigation. The impacts to the communities, RTD, BNSF, and loo k at possible mitigations.
So we are working on the phase I approach to answer all these questions. So then we can enter phase II
which will be seeking the funding and property and moving forward with the project. But that phase II is
not part of this overall project.
So, what are we looking at? Bottom line, we got key tasks with the overall study. This how everything ties
in. Once we start setting the parameters, it locks in various assumptions. So we had to make sure that we
mutually agree on what those base assumptions are.

So when we started looking at the peak service, for example, back in 2014, '15, and '16, trying to reduce
the overall cost, that's where we came into the concept of basically three trains in the morning, three
trains in the afternoon, mitigating the amount of infrastructure requirements on the BNSF. The outreach
we want to hear from the public, but we also want to share information back and forth.
But we're not looking at readdressing some of the core understandings of the peak service rail plan. This
is not what was identified in the original 2004 for the corridor. We're just focusing on the peak rail service.
So as far as project characteristics, I'm going to go to page 58. The key elements of the project. We're
looking at the engineering and the planning work from Westminster 72nd station to Longmont, 35 miles.
The first six miles are completed, that's the B-line. It is an operation.
Our goal would be to overlap the Northwest peak service with the B-line. Looking at the operational
modeling for the rail and bus, one of the requests that came out from several of our stakeholders was to
explore potential sharing of a maintenance facility with the Front Range Passenger operations. One of the
challenges is they still haven't identified their fleet, and we have identified our fleet. So a lot of guesswork
has to be put into that which has also increased the complexity of the project.
Four new sidings, approximately two miles each. This is what's required to make the BNSF whole so they
can pull their trains to the sidings and we can go past them. So this mitigates the impacts to their
operations.
We've got the eight stations we've talked about over the years. There's 38 at-grade crossings through this
corridor. That's where we're talking with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission, how much involvement
do we need at this point, or do we need that at a later date.
Potential grade separation, so if we've got sidings at the same locations of the at-grade crossings, we
don't want to park a train blocking a major street for 15, 20 minutes. And there's also 23 waterway
crossings on the corridor. So as you can see, it is a very complex corridor.
So that gets into the overall study. The PEL study will integrate a lot of work from different entities. So on
this slide, we've tried to capture the various components with an overall study that will provide a report
plan, schedules, cost estimate, and a risk register. And in that risk register, I'll identify the key
components, the biggest risks to the project's mitigation strategies.
But the BNSF will do the operational modeling for all the railroads. They'll do the guideway design. And
they'll also do the PTC, the positive train control. But we're going to keep that down at a very low level.
Because our equipment is not compatible with their equipment today. We can integrate, but we don't
know what our fleet's going to look like in our PTC system in three to five years.

Public and stakeholder engagement, part of that will be done by the consultant. Part of that we're already
doing working with our jurisdictional stakeholders today. RTD will be responsible for the overall
management along with our stakeholders. We're looking at ridership models with an on-call consultant
that we have onboard today.
Potential site identification for a maintenance facility. We'll talk about the agreements. On the far side,
vehicle technology, we have found, we believe, at least one vehicle that meets the needs of this corridor.
So we will do an outreach and find out what kind of fleet or what do we have as potential, and realizing
that the fleets are evolving and what will it look like in a couple of years plus. So the PEL study consultant
will integrate all this information, it will facilitate two-way communications with the public and the
stakeholders.
We'll have the bus service plans, stations, looking at multimodal access, the Park-n-Rides, the
environmental issues, the noise vibration, environmental impacts, cost estimates, and the activities that
are scheduled for the implementation of a project. That's the deliverable from this firm or consortium
coming together to help us out. But it is multiple contracts being managed by RTD to get the information
out.
So we talked about the jurisdictional stakeholders over on the right-hand side in the red box. You've got-I don't need to read them, but this is the group that we are working with. We have shared the scope of
work for the study. They've all made comments to the scope of work, added some, modified, raised some
concerns.
The next slide will go into a little bit of that. And that's what's been added into the overall scope that has
raised the overall dollar amount. We are working with the Front Range Passenger Rail Southwest Chief,
Amtrak, Colorado Department of Transportation on an MOU which will be coming to the Board in the near
future. And we're planning on putting the RFP request for proposal for late summer, next month, first part
of September.
I want to get out to the street as fast as possible so we can award a contract by the end of 2021. So
jurisdictional stakeholders review of the PEL scope of work. These are the key elements that have been
requested that we look into in a little more detail. More integration with the Front Range Passenger Rail,
this includes potential sharing a maintenance facility with them, also potentially using the same piece of
property for the state 119 Bus Rapid Transit so we can find a property big enough to tie all three together.
We may see savings, but it makes it more complex going forward. We've had a request for more review
cycles, challenge with review cycles, we update work, so it adds an extra step in there, but it also impacts
the overall schedule. There was a request for more transit oriented development support. The
establishment of capital costs and operating costs for B-line changes.
How do we deal with DTO? And then there was some request for interim steps throughout the B-line. So
as of right now, we're looking at overlapping this peak service with the current B-line operations. And

there was a request for a level 3 study, even though the Board has recommend-- I guess not
recommended, gave the nod head for a level 2 study, and a request for federal oversight. Those were not
accepted.
As we move forward, the level 2 study is becoming a level 2 plus with the positioning for federal funding.
So it's not quite where we were in April. We've taken the request from the local jurisdictions, put it in.
We're evaluating. We met with them last week. We've got a meeting again tomorrow with them.
But the overall cost estimate has increased to $12 million. The elements included are the PEL consultant,
BNSF, the modeling, staff, time, project management, contingency. On a positive note, we have applied
for a Rebuilding America Infrastructure Sustainability and Equity planning grant, a RAISE grant, went in
yesterday and several letters of recommendation from the region and from the governor and one of the
representatives. So we are moving forward with that.
So bottom line, what does the study give us? A better understanding of Northwest Rail peak service.
We're identifying the risk mitigation to build and operate the service. A lot of the impacts to the community
and RTD. We're looking for project capital cost, operational cost, and operational characteristics. So with
that, Madam Chair, General Manager, I would turn it over for questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. I do have some concerns and comments, and I will talk
about those later. But I'd first like to call on Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. As mentioned earlier, I would like to propose an
amendment. And the amendment is to the amount of money in the recommended action, to bring it back
down to the $8 million that were in the level 2-- that was the maximum in the level 2, plus a contingency of
10%. So the new recommended action would read, with my amendment, would read for the RTD Board
of Directors to authorize the General Manager or her designee to implement the transfer of $8 million plus
10% contingency for a total of $8,800,000 from the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or FISA, to fund
the Northwest Rail peak service study and to enter into all required contracts to complete this study within
the Board-approved project budget.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do I hear a second?
VINCE BUZEK: The second agrees with that Amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: I heard two people. One was Director Buzek, and the other was?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. This is Director Buzek. I think it was an amendment to her initial motion. And I'm
the second on that, and I agree with the amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So we have a move to amend the proposed recommended action by Director
Guissinger and a second by Director Buzek. Now we are going to have a discussion regarding the

proposed amendment. But I would first like to ask Assistant General Manager Stopplecamp, what would
have to be eliminated from your presentation's scope of work in order to keep that budget under the $8
million?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, if I may, Madam Chair—
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: --the scope of work has expanded to look at-- I mean, the big one is the
coordination with the Front Range Passenger Rail. They don't have any funding. So in order for us to do a
lot of the coordination, we've had put that in the budget. So we want to work with them, and I think we
can.
But the complexity of working with unknowns, we just have to define what that scope is upfront. That's
probably one of the biggest key elements. And the other one is, what activities relate to the peak service
in determining the overall cost and the impacts? So there are elements in there that are nice to have, but
they don't drive the overall-- the greater risk to the project.
So what I'd like to do is meet with our stakeholders tomorrow. And we've got that meeting already set up.
And listen to them and see what they're willing to pull back. But yes, we can answer that question.
And there may be less reviews that we spend on review cycles on the project. The design, instead of
doing a 30, 60, 90, 100, there will be a 30 and 100% and we take our take-off off of that, versus doing
steps in between. So those are the types of things that we can pull out, but there are elements that have
been requested by our stakeholders that, like I said, they add value to the overall project, but they are
more of a nice to have.
And the risk factor is so much smaller than some of the bigger items. So I'd just like to throw one out there
for you. If we end up with having an at-grade crossing that we don't understand to start with, we're talking
to $20 million to $30 million hit to the project. Some of these other ones, we're talking extra $1 million
dollars if we missed something.
So overall magnitude, there are some huge risk items that we really need to focus on. And so we can
share with the Board at a later date of the areas that we're going to pull back out. We can do that at a
quick briefing next week if this does go forward, before the vote. But we can modify the overall scope to
make that work.
And the General Manager and I have spent a lot of time today talking about it. And along with Bill Van
Meter, Assistant General Manager to Planning. So there are options out there.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. I, for one, recall when we approved this level 2 that there
was a great deal of concern about even that expenditure. I know Director Guissinger would actually like to
provide some context about her proposed amendment. Dr. Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I want to join our General Manager in really thanking
Henry Stopplecamp and Bill Van Meter and your staffs and General Manager Johnson for all the hard
work and for the community discussions that they've engaged with, largely with the local staff up in the
Northwest corridor. And I appreciate it.
I worked with Henry Stopplecamp and Ms. Johnson today to put together an amendment that I hope they
will support and encourage. And I'd like to ask them to speak to it in just a minute. I'd also say that I
reached out to a number of the stakeholders in the Northwest corridor who had been involved in some of
these meetings. And they agreed that this is a better approach to keep the costs down.
So following up a little bit on Chair Catlin's question that Ms. Johnson and Mr. Stopplecamp, I guess if you
could just address if you're comfortable that this amendment, with $8 million and a 10% contingency, is
sufficient for you to do a peak period study in an appropriate manner.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Oh, yes. I mean, General Manager Johnson and I talked earlier today, along
with Director Guissinger. There's some things in there that we've put in there for positioning for federal
funding, the bus operations integration plans. Well, if we're just worried about peak service, the bus
integration is a separate process. So we should be able to pull some of that out.
Quiet zones in the corridors, for example. A lot of that's happening right now. Should that be in the overall
project? Some of the environmental stuff, noise and vibration, If you're only running three trains in the
morning versus the afternoon.
So those are the types of things that we need to sit down with our stakeholders, talk to them. Multi-modal
access to the stations, that may not be needed in this plan. Placeholder for the Park-n-Rides stations, we
can put that in there and add more in the future. TOD around the station that we don't have plans to build
at this point may be premature.
So those are the things that we can sit down, and the big one is the complexity with the Front Range. So
we need to work with them and BNSF and Amtrak to figure out what does that scope look like. They're
still evaluating it. And that's one reason we haven't had the MOU back to the Board yet to move forward.
General Manager Johnson, would like to add anything more to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, thank you. Excuse me, Madam Chair, I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I was just going to ask you if you had anything to add to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so I appreciate Mr, Stopplecamp's comments. And I think, if anything, it's
incumbent upon us to share that of course there are going to be some takeaways. And to manage
everybody's expectation, I think it's incumbent upon us to have an earnest and honest dialogue as it
relates to that. So to Mr. Stopplecamp's comments as relates to going back to the jurisdictions and having
conversations, I think that's paramount as we move forward so we're not in a precarious position 10 years
from now when people had an understanding of something that didn't come to fruition.
So with that, I think he outlined very thoroughly about some of the elements that we don't actually have
any certainty around, i.e. Relative to the transit oriented development opportunities, bus integration is
paramount if we're looking at a comprehensive robust transportation network which everyone is striving
for, I know I'm pushing that as we go forward. And it'd be more important to have that as opposed to
additional parking as we look to reduce our carbon footprint.
So to that end, I think Mr. Stopplecamp has conveyed what those takeaways would be. And in turn, we
will keep you all apprised, especially in working in collaboration and coordination with our jurisdictional
stakeholder partners so they recognize what this would entail. So thank you very much for the opportunity
to address this comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Guissinger, does that satisfy your question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It does. And just briefly, I would just reiterate what Ms. Johnson said earlier that this
study is, I think, come to the Board and to the Accountability Committee, the staff, the governor, and
remember, we need a common understanding of our Northwest Rail obligation and what it entails. And
now is the time because of the conversation around Amtrak and the federal infrastructure bills, the
potential for money there, and the fact that they have identified this as a potential new cadre that there
may be money to share in the costs.
Front Range Passenger Rail, the legislation just passed to make it a district that potentially has taxing
authority. So I'm sure there are people who are wondering why do this now, and there are a lot of good
reasons for it. So I would urge us to move forward and complete the study. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We're still having a discussion regarding the proposed amendment to the proposed
action, and I see a number of hands raised. And I'll start with what I believe was the order in which they
came in. Direct Guissinger, if you'd like to put your hand down—
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: --then I will call on the others in turn. Director Broom, I think you were first in the queue.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just speaking to the amendment at this point in time—
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BOB BROOM: --if this were to pass and it reduced the amount that we're talking about, would that also
then reduce the amount of the federal grant that we would be eligible for?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Stopplecamp, can you answer that?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I can. We applied for the grant, and we were looking at 50% of the $8 million.
So I will be looking to Mr. Van Meter to verify that. But we're really looking for about a 4 and change grant.
We didn't apply for a half of the 12 million, so that number stays fixed with this proposal. Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning, I concur with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: It does on the Amendment. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. So just with respect to the amendment strictly, so Mr.
Stopplecamp, you mentioned that the Front Range Passenger Rail is one of the big question marks,
which I can certainly appreciate. And not to belabor the point, but could you maybe just give some
examples in some ways that reducing the amount may impact our collaboration? And does it put any type
of high level collaboration, i.e. our MOU, at risk?
So I guess that's a two part question. What specifically might be sacrificed in our collaboration by
reducing the amount? And then secondarily, is there any risk in collaboration from the highest level?
PEGGY CATLIN: Henry, before you answer that, this Board approved additionally a $5 million to $8
million level 2 study. And now the proposed action is to increase that amount is troubling. So if I might
rephrase it for my own purposes, would there be a risk of not increasing to the $12 million with respect to
our relationship at the high level with stakeholders? Rather than an actual reduction, because we haven't- because we hadn't agreed to the $12 million yet.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Sorry, I guess, yeah, thank you for clarifying. I'm speaking with respect to the motion
itself. So—
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, understood. And I know we didn't formally approve anything at that last meeting.
But just the actual-- the reduction from the motion itself. So yeah, thank you. In agreement with what
you're going after, just wondering what may be sacrificed with the recommended action that's been
brought to us here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I believe I can answer-- once again, Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, I think I can answer both the questions. We've got a pretty good working
relationship with the Front Range Passenger Rail. We've got one of the commissioners on staff, Mr. Van
Meter.
We have met with BNSF, Amtrak, and the Front Range Passenger Rail on several occasions over the last
couple of months. One of our challenges right now is the unknown. So we are looking at two paths going
down that may come together. And since they haven't started going down their path, we had to make
assumptions of where they're going, along with ours, and see how they come together.
So that's kind of what-- the complexity and additional scope and cost is hitting us right now. If they bring
money to the table and they're going down that path and we can take it back and go jointly together, that
should bring the overall number down. But we couldn't go into a project with an understanding that we'll
look at joint maintenance facilities, operating plans, without them having any money.
I can't make that commitment to you or the stakeholders and then find out that they have no money and
say oops, I didn't look at it. So I don't think it's going to hurt our relationship between all parties. We are
still working on the overall MOU, and that's looking pretty good.
So as far as the Front Range, the Front Range Passenger operation shouldn't affect the overall teamwork
together. But some of the items in there are nice to have, a shared maintenance facility type thing. And
we can look at that as we move forward.
But realizing we're looking at the peak service. So, what does it take to put peak service out there in the
next couple of years? And as they start moving forward, we may come back and say we've got a great
opportunity, in a year from now, saying they've got money, we've got money coming this way, we want to
speed the process up and do some joint planning above and beyond. But as of right now, we're going
down our path to deliver a product to the Board, to the stakeholders, on what it would run for peak
service, three trips in the morning and three in the afternoon.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may just-- a reaction to that.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's all good. Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. That makes perfect sense. What I heard, just to echo
that back, is no risk to the greater just collaborative spirit of this, that we'll still work together. But certainly,
this means we're not going to tackle a lot of those unknowns and try to corral them now.
To me, that makes a lot of sense because there isn't money over on the Front Range Passenger Rail. So
in many ways, we are blazing the trail on this. So we just need to go the direction we will. And if anything,
ask those who come in later to follow us on this.
I would say that the amendment to me seems very prudent. We did discuss a $5 million to $8 million. If
we can answer the core questions that are big moving parts, the big expenses, to me that's what this
whole thing is about is we need to get that common set of facts-- to use the terms of others here-- to
understand exactly what this is going to cost us. I think it's pretty clear at this point with taxpayers putting
in $400 and some million and FISA having call it between a quarter and a third of that saved, that's the
money we have to leverage on this.
And the only way this gets done is if we're collaborating with others. So I think it's incredibly important that
we lead the way with folks like Front Range Passenger Rail, but we also need to be careful spending too
much, 10%, for example, of what we have as our leverage. So I'm supportive of the amendment, and
thank you for answering the question.
I think my encouragement is that we stay close to Front Range Passenger Rail, but not overspend at the
point we're getting costs. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Broom, your hand is still up. Do you have any—
BOB BROOM: I still want to speak to the main motion when we get to it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, all right. Right now we're just talking about the amendment. Chair RiveraMalpiede, you were next in the queue. Do you have comments on the proposed amendment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have [INAUDIBLE] $5 million to $8
million, and I would like that to be [AUDIO OUT]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair, you're breaking up, so I'm not catching—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --amendment, that it would be no more than $8 million. Is that better,
Madam Chair?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. [AUDIO OUT] I do have some concerns with the amended resolution. In
April, the Board of Directors did say that they wanted to move forward with level 2 to expand $5 million to
$8 million. And I would like the amendment to read not to exceed $8 million, because that was the original
proposal that was brought to us that we all voted on to move forward.
With that in mind, I just want to let you know that I have been receiving emails from my constituents very
concerned about the $12 million price tag, as I am. I do think though, as I look at this, I made a
commitment in April to move forward with the level 2, because we do not have current information data
points. And that was really, really important to us and to show the Northwest community that we really do
need to look at that. I mean, our data points were from 2010, and the world has changed significantly, as
well as our community, over the last 11 years.
And so I just want to say for the record that I would be in support of this resolution if it's up to $8 million.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Speaking to the amendment here. So Henry, you mentioned that one thing that may
come out is some work that would help to position us for federal funding. I'm still interested in this
question of whether a sort of a too strict adherence to peak rail may keep us within 8 million in the near
term but cost more in the long term or work to preclude federal funding or working well with our potential
partners. So can you-- what were you talking about there with the position for federal funding and what
are we foregoing there? Or are we potentially precluding something?
PEGGY CATLIN: Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Back to the initial [AUDIO OUT] that [AUDIO OUT] team put together back
into-- OK. Am I still here?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, you're here.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. For some reason, it jumped to mute and then back. So the original scope
of the study was for peak service. We weren't looking at funding sources.
So if we go back to the second slide of the PowerPoint, so back to page 53, the funding element was not
part of this overall study. So there's a lot of things that we do need to look at if we're going to go for
federal funding. How does it tie into our network? That's the bus operation plan.
Some of the environmental stuff for clearance, the noise and vibration. When we do a high level right
now, but if we're going to go for federal funding, we need more detail. And so that was not part of the

original scope, that $5 million to $8 million. And that's been brought up by several of the stakeholders, so
that's why we put that into it. So there are several things that we need to do to be ready for the federal
funding. That's probably the next step.
So we can go through and identify the preliminary engineering and the peak service for three trains and
three trains out. And when we get ready to search for the funding, we can always step in and add to that
as required. But that was not part of the original scope. It has been added.
And if you want to bring it down to 8.8, that range, that's an awful lot of work that has to come out. And I
would ask Mr. Van Meter if he could add a little bit more onto it. His team are the ones that are really
narrowing in for the federal funding. I've got the engineering and construction side, but I believe Bill can
go a little more detail on what's needed for the federal funding.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Henry. Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. So my response would really
build on Henry's groundwork. And rather than providing all the specifics, I would say our intent would be
to carefully make sure that we aren't precluding the opportunity with whatever decisions,
recommendations, and conclusions are made from the study so that it aligns us, if the opportunity arises,
to do the further NEPA type clearance operational analysis, fleet plans, and related type analysis
necessary moving forward, that nothing that we've done would preclude that opportunity.
It may not allow us to check the boxes and say that we have done those as a result of the study. But we
would aim to make sure that if that opportunity arises, we can build off of the work done to date through
this study with subsequent work efforts.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: May I follow up, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
SHELLEY COOK: So are you saying that you can do the more reduced scope of work, keeping in mind
those things and also evaluating what may happen with the federal infrastructure bill and so forth? And so
if you discover that you need to do a little bit more work, you would be able to come back to us, or at least
you would consciously-- you'd work not to preclude something that would move those things forward in a
partnership fashion, correct?
BILL VAN METER: That would be the clear intent. Yes, that is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair.

PEGGY CATLIN: You're welcome. Director Williams, you're next in the queue.
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not want to speak to the amendment. I'd like to speak to the original motion. So will
you come back to me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely.
KATE WILLIAMS: Should I come back-- and can I leave my hand up?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. For those people that would like to speak to the original motion and want to keep
their hand up, feel free. But Director Rosenthal, do you want to speak to the amendment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. And just for clarification, so Chairwoman
Rivera-Malpiede had a concern that we originally said 5 million to 8 million and if the substituted
amendment says, hey, we should do $8 million and yet the proposal is also to have a 10% addition to
raise that cap for other incidentals if we go above the scope work, and yet, that would go above the 8
million. So, do we want to lower it?
Do we want to have that 10% additional-- I guess, maybe I-- hopefully I'm not picking on this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, right now the amendment as proposed is the 8 million plus a 10% contingency. So
if we wanted to have a different amendment, than we would have to address that separately.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. I just want to make clear that this could go potentially above the $8 million if
need be. That all I kind of wanted to clarify.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis, do you want to speak to the amendment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I'm curious as to what the proposal is based upon, what information
Director Guissinger is relying upon to come up with the amendment that she's proposed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Dr. Guissinger, you want to respond?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Meetings today with Mr. Stopplecamp and Ms. Johnson and looking as the
Chairs Rivera-Malpiede said that what we had asked to move forward before the five to eight million, and

maybe it would be worth asking Mr. Stopplecamp or other staff. But respecting Chair Rivera-Malpiede's
requests, I believe we need a contingency. The intent is not to spin that.
But it's important to moving a project forward. Is $8 million a reasonable number? And I'd love to have
guidance on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So $8 million versus $8.8 million versus $7 million, it comes down to skinning
up the scope to the budget. Originally, we put together a scope based on a scope of work. And that's
where the 5 to 8 with additional scope, and the more detail, it went up. So it's a matter of pulling it back
down and working with our jurisdictional partners and seeing what they feel comfortable pulling out.
I mean, this is a joint effort with the stakeholders. Yes, Bill and myself could come up with a scope and
say this is what we're going to do. But we really want to get the buy-in from the community and
understand their pain points, their concerns.
So whatever number the Board tells us, that's the scope we're going to use. There may be, in the final
product, a bigger bandwidth as far as a range of what's needed to finalize that product. It may answer the
key components but leave other ones out there.
Our goal is still to identify all the questions that need to be asked and answer them to some degree. And
the more information we have, the more we can pin down a number and the impact. But if we don't have
the information, we're still going to identify it. And we're still going to say what are the concerns, the pros
and cons, and assign a risk value.
So when the project's over with, we'll have these key elements are in this category. These key elements
are going to add to a range of, making numbers up, $5 million to $20 million, so there's a $15 million float
in those elements. So when we go out on the street, you take the number of certain plus and the high
range, and that's what you're looking for.
So that's how the project will move forward. So we design, write the scope to the budget. And that's kind
of what we started to, and then we've added to, and now we're bringing it back down. So this gets down
to the willingness of the Board to set that dollar amount. And then we will sit down with our stakeholders
and say this is the money we got. How do we get the best product for the community for that price?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I do have a few follow-ups, if I might.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. To the amendment?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that, Mr. Stopplecamp. I'm concerned that we as a Board give
you a number that seems a bit arbitrary and then you all go back and make it work. And my preference
personally would be to give you a number that you all know works because it's based on a methodology.
It's based on information that you all have access to, it's based on your experience and expertise as
transit leaders.
And so this makes me a-- it gives me pause. And so I'm curious as to-- especially, as you've mentioned,
the buy-in from the stakeholders, if it makes more sense for us to have that information first from the
stakeholders before proceeding in this way and how might this hinder your ability to do your job in some
ways with having to fit into a specific budget instead of providing to us as a Board what you all need in
terms of resources.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I appreciate that question so much. Thank you so much, Director Lewis. Yeah,
trying to fit a budget-- so with the scope, that's the $12 million we've got. Yes, we can pull it down.
What is that magic number? It all comes into what is the end result, the quality product, and how much is
the organization willing to have a range at the end of the day? All the asks from the stakeholders bring
value to the exercise. It refines and dives down into more detail.
The question is, do we need all that detail today? And so I'll use the example of the BNSF. The
infrastructure is probably the biggest risk to the project and the biggest number. So on that one there, we
really want to hone in and find out what that is.
The grade separation of at-grade crossings, some of those can really impact the project. So we're trying
to fit in as much detail as possible with less money. There will be areas with a broader range. But with
that being said, we're not going to throw stuff out. We're not going to say we're not going to deal with the
Front Range, we're not going to deal with quiet zones, we're not to deal with TOD.
We're going to identify all that stuff. But then it becomes a range and a placeholder in the overarching
project, realizing that we're only going to take this to a 30-ish percent level of design. When we have the
funding, we'll take it from the 30% to 100% and then start the construction.
So we've got a lot of room at that point to get into the details. And things happen over the years. So I'll
use Louisville for example, there was an area that we were looking at the parking facility. But that has
been developed and there's residential on that piece of property, so we're now moving at a little bit
further. So those things will evolve over the next few years.

We can give you a number and the impacts on any budget. The question is, how much detail and how
comfortable do we feel about it? And I would throw this over either to General Manager Johnson or Bill
Van Meter, General Manager of Planning, to talk a little bit more about that.
But it all comes down to the quality of the final product.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And the comfort the organization feels. But getting back to a common set of
facts and understanding, the more we focus on that, the more everybody's on the same sheet of music
versus all over the Board. So with that, Ms. Johnson or Mr. Van Meter.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you. [INAUDIBLE].
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, sorry, Madam Chair. I would love to hear from General Manager. And I really
appreciate the background that you provided. Because it feels very much like trying to fit a square into a
circle or vice versa and so I really appreciate it.
And I'm also thinking about our reputation as an agency. And it has-- right? We're dealing with the
remnants of maybe not doing such a great job in terms of the execution of many of our projects. And so I
would really like to make sure that while I understand the pressure that we are under to be able to move
this forward, that we do and do so in a way that really-- that values quality over quantity. And so—
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I appreciate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --General Manager, I'll give you the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp and Director Lewis. And I appreciate your
comments, Mr. Stopplecamp. I have been saying at the outset of this initiative that we wanted to ensure
that we had a common set of facts.
And with this undertaking, this would give us the common set of facts in relationship to having and
understanding about 30% conceptual design drawings that could enable us to make decisions when we
get to that crossroad. I do think it is imperative that we are working in tandem. I think to the point that
Director Lewis raised in reference to this organization, our credibility, that's what I have been trying to do
with this process from the outset, as we talked about, leveraging different opportunities.
Hence, that's why we collectively decided to go forward for the RAISE grant to minimize the impacts from
a financial standpoint for this undertaking as we go forward. I do also recognize the trepidation that is

being put forward because recognizing the Board did not act on April 6th, but more or less supported
staff's recommendation for the approach to come forward.
So I do want to qualify that in that there was general consensus, and I use the term general consensus in
reference to the approach being sought relative to that $5 million to $8 million range. So to the point that
Mr. Stopplecamp just raised, it's for 30% conceptual design, so we would not have a clear-cut
understanding what that may yield. But it would give us the better understanding where this may take us
and what this may entail as we go farther down the path.
Because then this Board would be faced with a decision to decide if, in fact, this is a viable project to
pursue, recognizing that we now are dealing in known facts and not ambiguity. So with that, I will yield the
floor back to you all for your consideration. And also, prior to doing that, ask Mr. Van Meter if he wanted
to opine, because we are still working in conjunction with our partners i.e. Front Range Passenger Rail,
Colorado Department of Transportation, as we look at this memorandum of understanding, which we
anticipate bringing forward to this body next month.
So that does not negate our commitment to working in tandem. Right now, as Mr. Stopplecamp did iterate
as well, that there's not a full range staff relative to what needs to happen for Front Range Passenger
Rail. But with my experience in pursuing federal funding opportunities, discretionary at that, if there is
alignment, it could make our project a lot more viable. But not knowing what else is out there across the
country, we can't say that with certainty.
But when there is collaboration and community support, especially with this undertaking in Congress as
what used to be called earmarks and now they're called community projects and things of the like, it gives
us a better opportunity to be competitive. So with that, Mr. Van Meter, I will yield the floor to you to add
any more information. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, GM Johnson. Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning.
So yeah, just a couple points related to all of that. Henry has noted that the Front Range Passenger Rail
Project doesn't have any money. He means for construction or implementation. There are funds available
for doing study work for both the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and its successor body.
So there are opportunities. The CDOT also has staff dedicated to this project. And we, as he indicated,
we have established a good working relationship at the staff level with both the CDOT staff supporting the
Front Range Passenger Rail project. And anticipate that will go forward regardless, we know it will. We
have an allocation and will work to protect that in the $12 million estimate. And if it were to come down to
a lower amount, we would continue to allocate significant resources to both local jurisdiction coordination
as well as to coordination with CDOT and the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and then district.

That's just a core commitment. That's the key real opportunity, as I've indicated, and as Board members
have noted in this conversation, for being able to move a Front Range system, and as part of it, the
Northwest Rail corridor forward. So having and maintaining that robust local jurisdiction as well as
coordination with our potential partners, that would still remain a key element of the plan, working forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Lewis, you said you had another follow-up question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, Madam Chair, and this is the final one. So you've mentioned the stakeholders
quite a bit-- many of you have mentioned the stakeholders quite a bit. And so I'm curious as to if this
Amendment were to pass as is, where does that put us in relation to our stakeholders considering that the
budget would be significantly less and the buy-in, at least something that I'm hearing, it's something
important as we move forward with this?
PEGGY CATLIN: Henry, can you answer that?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, and I think Director Guissinger also addressed this a little bit today. We
have talked with our stakeholders, jurisdictional stakeholders, and they to believe that the $12 million is
higher than they anticipated. So they are open and receptive to bring the scope down.
But this is where-- we brought the information to the Board. We're hearing back from the Board. We'll give
a briefing to them tomorrow. And then we'll go ahead and look at the scope.
And the goal would be to put the scope out on the street and firm any of the modeling to the BNSF to the
PEL study. All that work plus staff time would come in under the not to exceed dollar amount. And so they
want this to happen as much as we do, probably more.
We've made a commitment. And we are following that commitment. But these stakeholders are very
passionate about it. And they've heard the Board loud and clear.
And so I don't think it's going to be too much of a challenge. And we'll just identify stuff. And then if there
is that next phase, we'll already identified and ready to go that way.
And some of the work can be done by the local jurisdictions, so that'll be a request to them that if you
want to go ahead and do some of that work that gets rolled into the PEL report, we're open to that as well.
So we'll look at all options with them and start that conversation tomorrow. And then the overall scope, we
will have a top end, whatever the Board sets, we will meet that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Henry. Does that address your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. And I just have one final comment that at least what I'm hearing from you Mr.
Stopplecamp is that there is some risk in making this vote before having the opportunity to have these
conversations with the stakeholders to assess what it is that we might need in the future. And so for the

sake of the record, it sounds like you all might have to come back to the Board and ask for an additional
amount of money to be able to complete this process with fidelity and doing so in a way that really values
the quality of this project.
You don't have to respond to that. It's simply a comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. Now we are still speaking to the amendment, and I
believe Director Tisdale is the next step.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yeah, speaking to the amendment, and Director
Lewis has already articulated, in a very eloquent fashion, some of the concerns that I wanted to explore at
this point. Because the concern that I have principally is with the optics of this with our partners. In other
words, if we went out to our partners originally starting with this $12 million number, and now tomorrow
present to them an $8 million number, what will be their reaction to that?
Now, I believe what I have heard is actually, in talking with them, we started out five to eight, talked to
them, realized it was more. Then we looked at all that and figured it had to be 12. We socialized that with
our stakeholders, partners, the rest, and got buy-in on that. But then before coming to this Board, we
were told that there might be some push back to get down to eight, and we've already had that
conversation with some of the stakeholders.
So I guess my first question, and then I'll have a brief comment, my question is, have I accurately
summarized the process to date?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, would you like to respond to that since you've been
doing a lot of the socializing with the stakeholders?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And again, staff, correct me here, but I think that you haven't really gone
through the conversation yet about the $12 million, that you did show that to them, is that right, Mr.
Stopplecamp? And so I think that what happened, and I could be wrong, is that they had some very
robust conversation, they asked for a number of things, it turned out a lot more expensive, and you're
asking the Board should we move forward with that.
I guess-- I want this study as much as anyone and I certainly want the corridor engagement. I think you're
doing a great job with that. I did talk with some of the people that had been involved in that. And they're
wary of the costs as well.
I'd love to hear what the three of you, and staff, how you would like to proceed. Because I'm not trying to
tie hands or anything. I am trying to do this in an economical way that, as Chair Rivera-Malpiede stated,
gets close to where we were previously and accomplishes what we need without getting out too far
beyond ourselves in terms of some of the things we don't know.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No. Thank you, Madam Chair it addresses part of it. But the question is, if I'm correct,
based upon the communications we've had with the stakeholders, we came up with a $12 million number.
My question was, did we socialize that number with anyone outside of staff and the RTD Board this
evening in advance?
Because if we did, then I think we've got some explaining to do if we go back with an $8 million number.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Stopplecamp.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I could address that question if you—
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --would provide me the opportunity to do so. In light of hearing this discussion, and
keeping in mind what I said at the beginning of this presentation, it's important to me, leading this
organization, that we are having open and earnest dialogue. With that as a backdrop, I strongly would
recommend that you take into consideration my recommendation that I'm putting forward that you give us
an opportunity as staff to go back to our jurisdictional stakeholders and convene with them so there is a
clear-cut understanding what we're doing here as to not look disingenuous about the amounts that are
here. We can do that in quick fashion.
There is a meeting that's established tomorrow. And I would say that we could bring this back to this body
to have a more informed discussion where we are fully representing everyone's best interests. Thank you
very kindly.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that address your concern, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I take it then, I'm going to imply what I heard from the General Manager. We did
not socialize that $12 million with anybody outside of the organization. Is that correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's incorrect, sir. We did. Hence, that's why we came here with the $12 million.
We initially went forward with the jurisdictional stakeholders where we said there was a $5 million to $8
million range in which we had discussions with all of you on April 6 of this year. In doing so, with the
course of several different meetings, we talked about different elements that could be contained and
basically understood what their pain points are, that's what Mr. Stopplecamp was talking about.
Recognizing that we put together this Board recommendation, as I said in my comments, with input from
the jurisdictional stakeholders, there has been a conversation that ensued here and Director Guissinger
offered up a friendly amendment.

That friendly amendment as relates to $8 million, the 10% contingency that equates to an amount not to
exceed $8.8 million has not been discussed at this juncture in detail with the stakeholders. Hence, the
comment I put forward in reference to allowing us to have conversations with the jurisdictional
stakeholders so they understand, so we are having an open and earnest dialogue about how we have
arrived at that number. I hope that clarifies the question that you posed.
DOUG TISDALE: It does. I appreciate that. In other words, we did share with them, based upon
everything that you've asked for-- it's built like a Christmas tree. People kept hanging ornaments on it. We
shared with them that the cost would be $12 million.
And now we're going to go to them and say we'd actually like to see if you'd be OK with our removing
some of the ornaments and getting it down NTE 8.8 million. Is that correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If I may, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, to piggyback on General Manager Johnson's comments, we did approach
them last week. This is a evolving process. So we got the final scope two weeks ago. So we did our
numbers for our estimate last week, sat down with them.
But what we didn't want to do is say OK, time out, bring the scope down to $8 million. Because our
commitment to the folks in this meeting is to bring the overall scope and the recommendations from the
local jurisdictions. So that's the overall scope of $12 million.
Now, they know, and we've talked among ourselves, that that's probably higher than it should be, and it
needs to come down. But the commitment we made to the Board was we'd bring to you the scope, their
input, and present it. Now we are hearing from the Board that we probably should lower it back down.
And now we'll sit down with them and say, OK, we had a lot of needs and wants and nice-to-haves. So
now it's time to carve out the nice-to-have and the wants, put them in that parking lot, and we'll deal with
that at a later date, and come up with the core mission, what it is to take for peak service, pull out as far
as positioning ourselves for funding and doing these other nice-to-have, which they add value to the
overall project. So Director Tisdale, we have talked to them.
We didn't put them on the spot saying we're bringing it down. We set up the meeting tomorrow after this
one here. So we'll go back to them and say, OK, you guys have heard it. Here's the debrief. Let's see
what we can do as a group and what are the must-have to answer the Board's questions.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, and I thank you very much for that. Based upon that, I'm prepared to support
the amendment. I don't want to make it sound like I'm against it. I think it represents a careful and
considered thought.

But you will have the opportunity, when we bring has before the full Board meeting, to express what
reaction you got from the stakeholders to this change, because it is a change. They were told it would be
about 12 million. And they'll have an opportunity to do that process you just described so well.
So I thank you for that, and I do understand that. And I thank you all for your patience with my extended
discourse.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I think your analogy of coming to them with an initial $5
million to $8 million, asking them what they wanted, and then having ornaments added onto the tree and
now we need to cut back a little bit is probably an appropriate analogy. I wanted to ask-- there are a
number of hands up. But, is there anyone else who wants to speak to the amendment? Director
Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair. I would like to withdraw my amendment. My understanding was that
people on kind of both sides of this wanted to keep the costs down. The Board had aimed at a lower
number. I was trying to help with that process to keep us on target, as what Mr. Stopplecamp was saying.
I totally support the idea of going back to the stakeholders, as Ms. Johnson and Mr. Stopplecamp have
said, if that's an option.
And then we choose at that point-- these are my stakeholders. I want them to be able to help with this
decision. And so at this point, I would move to withdraw the amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would ask your second, Director Buzek, are you OK with withdrawing the amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: Well, it depends. Does this mean we're putting this on hold and bringing this back in
another month after we've had a chance talk to stakeholders? Otherwise, we withdraw the amendment,
now we're at the $12 million mark.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. But we still have to-- if we withdraw the amendment, we don't need to vote on the
amendment. Now we need to vote on the initial proposed action, which is the 12 million.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if we remove the amendment, now we're back to discussing the original proposed
action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I would withdraw my motion on that as well. It sounds to me like what staff is
thinking is going back to the stakeholders. And I just want to support that process, whatever process
works well for staff. So I made the motion for the higher amount of the 12 million. I would withdraw that as
well.

VINCE BUZEK: And I guess I would just need clarity from staff if that's in fact what their thinking is, that
we should continue this until we have a chance to talk to the stakeholders.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, do you want to address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would. Thank you very much, Director Buzek. I think that would be in our best
interest, because we could easily bring this back in August, the next video meeting, and do our due
diligence and shore up everything with our stakeholders. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I withdraw my second to both the amendment and the original motion.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I believe that now the proposed option is off the table and has been postponed.
But—
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Just so I can understand the parliamentary process here, I don't believe the appropriate
process would simply be to withdraw with the movement and the second agreeing to withdrawing a
motion, either the amendment or the main motion. There could very easily be a motion to-- we always say
table, but we mean specifically to refer to a specific date, and we could simply continue this matter to the
next meeting so that we could then pick up a discussion on the main motion, the recommended action
item.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'd like to ask—
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's the procedure, but I defer to—
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to ask General Counsel Melanie Snyder to address whether or not the proposed
amendment to the proposed action can be withdrawn. Is that—
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I do just want to note that Director Williams has been
waving her hand, so I don't want to step on her. But to answer the question, yes. Parliamentary, it would
be more appropriate to either vote down the motion to amend or, if the Board wants to postpone
consideration, then there could be a new motion to postpone consideration of this matter until, and then
just pick a date, likely next Tuesday's meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So we do need to take the amendment, even though Director Guissinger—

MELANIE SNYDER: No. So you don't need to-- if it's the pleasure of the Board, you could make-- there
could be a new motion to postpone consideration of this agenda item until next week's meeting. And then
that would sort of freeze us as a status quo.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I know that a number of people did want to speak probably to the proposed action
to get their comments on the record. And so we do not need to vote on the proposed amendment which
was the—
MELANIE SNYDER: So Madam—
PEGGY CATLIN: --the $8 million. Go ahead, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Just to be clear on the
options, there could either be a new motion to postpone consideration of this matter and that would sort of
preserve the status quo of the motion and the motion to go to amend. The other option would be if you
want to remove the motion to amend from consideration, I would recommend that you call for a vote on
that. That would be voted down, and then there could be a motion to postpone. Either way.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think the latter probably would be preferable, because then we still leave open the
dialogue for the original action. And then we could entertain a motion to postpone to a certain date. So,
are there any other directors who would like to speak to the amendment? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I wanted to hear from Director Williams first, but I'd like to ask questions after-- or
make comments slash ask questions after her.
PEGGY CATLIN: Regarding the amendment? Regarding the amendment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Regarding the amendment, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Williams, do you have a comment on the amendment?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. I am waiting to speak to the original motion.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I thought. That's what I thought.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: In that case, so I feel like some of these numbers are a bit arbitrary. And quite
frankly, I just want this process to go as quickly as possible. I want it to be as thoroughly as possible.
If it costs $8,000,001, if it costs $9 million, if it costs $10 million, I just want us to do a good job. I want us
to do it well. I want it to be inclusive.

And so I don't mind waiting until next Tuesday to have senior leadership iron this out a little bit with the
stakeholders. I just want us to be more flexible if-- I just want us to delay one day the starting of peak
service, because we waited too long and we didn't request the right amount of money for a study. I just
want to do what we need to do.
And I guess with all of the discussion tonight, it wasn't clear to me-- did senior leadership, do you support
more than eight million, not support more than eight million? I guess I don't see some of these supposed
additional decorations on this tree. I guess I don't see it like that.
I think that some of them may be necessary. And maybe they don't sound necessary now, but maybe
they will in the future. So I just want to make sure we're not nickel and diming this process, that we're
doing the right thing. We're allocating the right amount of money at the right time.
Thank you. I'm not being angry. I'm just being—
PEGGY CATLIN: Passionate.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --passionate.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. Director Whitmore, I see your hand up. Do you want to speak to the proposed
amendment?
TROY WHITMORE: I do. We heard from staff tonight that more communication with stakeholders is
important. And we are often criticized when we fail to do so appropriately. It's been a lot of work done, but
it sounds like we're a meeting away from perhaps coming to a greater agreement.
And while this may seem a little awkward, I agree with Director Tisdale. I think it is most appropriate to
postpone this, with the amendment included, to next week. Because that may be the number after we
have the discussions with the stakeholders. So with that, and help me if I messed this up, General
Counsel, but I've moved to postpone this matter, with the amendment included, to next week's Board
meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do you want to do it next week's Board meeting or the committee meeting?
TROY WHITMORE: You tell me which one is appropriate.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think we have to take it through committee. Is that correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: The Chair could open to add it to the agenda.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, there's flexibility about which meeting it gets added to.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. OK, then your amendment, Director Whitmore, would be to postpone until next
week's Board meeting with the amendment intact. Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, there's a move and a second to postpone until next week's Board meeting. Is there
any discussion regarding that amendment?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, I would just like to make sure that we all are in agreement with the
date certain, because it is a date certain motion. So that's up to staff or you, not me.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I believe it's also up to the executive committee as to whether or not it should
appear on the agenda.
TROY WHITMORE: Can the motion be made for it to be postponed to the next appropriate meeting time
per guidance from the executive committee, would that be acceptable?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: That would be acceptable, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, so the proposed amendment is to postpone this item, with the first amendment
included, to an appropriate date as determined by staff and the executive committee? OK. And Director
Buzek, are you still OK with that?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Is there any other discussion on this proposed Amendment?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just a quick question if I may, Madam Chair. You had mentioned it has to go
through committee, and that would have been my assumption. So, are we going to just schedule a
special committee meeting next week in conjunction with the Board meeting? Is that what you're
suggesting?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that Director-- I think that the motion that Director Whitmore made was for staff to
come up with an appropriate recommendation. And so we were somewhat vague on when that would
take place. So the mechanics—
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And General Counsel Snyder, you'll work that out. In other words, if we set a date
certain of next week or the Board meeting, then you'll work out the particulars in terms of protocol coming
through the committee or directly to the Board?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks a lot.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. There's an executive committee meeting on Thursday.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Thanks so much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams has had her hand up, and I know she wanted to speak to the original
motion. But I think we ought to vote on this amendment, and then go back to the original motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am against the amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. But I think—
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe the motion on the floor, which I think is a priority motion, has priority over this
discussion. And the motion is to postpone this entire discussion of the first amendment and the main
motion to a date to be selected by the executive committee in consultation with staff. I submit we need to
have a vote on that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. I agree. I was going to call for the vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, I'm not going away to speak any longer. Everybody's been speaking. I've
waited to speak. Now we're going to postpone this discussion until next week.
I'm sorry, I can't go with that. I have waited a very long time to speak. I would like to speak to the original
motion. Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to defer to our General Counsel as to the parliamentary procedure.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So Director Tisdale's correct. We have a motion to
postpone consideration of this matter and a second, so the discussion really should be limited to that
motion. And then a vote should be called.

Madam Chair, it's up to you if you wanted to allow Director Williams to have some comments on this or if
you wanted to allow her to address this in other matters if she really felt like she needed to speak about it
this evening.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like, if it's all right, for us to vote on this, and then absolutely call on Director
Williams to speak to it and other matters. And I think that I would also like to exercise some Chair
privilege to speak to the original motion as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So Dr. Catlin, it might help. Our next finance meeting, our Finance Committee meeting
is on August 12th, and you might add that to the amendment. That might help as we are moving forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: I need to ask Director Whitmore what his-- I think we need to vote on this amendment
as it stands right now. So—
MELANIE SNYDER: Right. Madam Chair, not the amendment, the motion to postpone.
PEGGY CATLIN: The motion to postpone, thank you. So I'd like to call for a vote. Would directors who
are opposed to this motion to postpone please signify by raising their hand? Director Williams, are you
still opposed to that motion?
I believe we've lost her. She did indicate she was opposed. Director Broom, are you a no?
BOB BROOM: I'm a no, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. thank you. Are there any other no votes? Director Williams, am I to assume that
you are a no vote still?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have nothing to say, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Is it a no or a-- for our official record of the vote. Are we-- are you abstaining or are
you a no vote?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not speaking. You put it down whatever you want to [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: I will put that as 12 in favor of postponing per Director Whitmore's motion, 1 opposed,
and 1, I'm going to suggest, abstaining. Director Rosenthal, are you also a no vote?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No. I thought if we were done with the voting, I just wanted to clarify again what it is- so my understanding is we're delaying for one week, we're speaking with stakeholders, and then we will
vote next Tuesday on this proposal, the original proposal. And if we want to entertain any more
amendments, to lower it to eight million, we can do so. Is that correct?

Is that what I understand what this proposal is? That we're only delaying one week, is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe that is correct. Or an appropriate date.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If it's one week, I'd like to change my vote, because I would prefer that we give staff
ample time to be able to come back before us. And the Finance Committee is happening on August 10th,
and so that would be my proposal to just-- to give ample time. But if it is for next week, I would actually
like to vote against that amendment.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe that the motion, as presented, to postpone was for staff, in consultation with
General Counsel, to determine an appropriate date at which time we will discuss this amendment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I feel like I'm back at high school student council. I'm going to put a motion on top of-I'm sorry, I'm going to put an amendment on this motion. I would like to amend that we specifically call out
that we will address this issue at the August 10th Finance Committee meeting. So to be clear, and I may
need help with this, I'm losing patience with the procedure here, but—
PEGGY CATLIN: Me too.
ERIK DAVIDSON: --we will be-- August 10th is what I'm moving to amend to our motion here, that we
bring this to Committee August 10th.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'd like to call for a vote-- or I'd like to have a second to that amendment to [AUDIO
OUT].
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, second the motion—
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And Madam Chair, I hate to belabor this, but we were actually in the process of
voting on an earlier motion. And so I just want to make sure that we're doing this correctly in terms of
Robert's Rules, but I think we were and it was probably my fault as well, because I think we-- I interjected
towards the end, like-- I just want to make sure that it's not a moot issue, because we kind of voted
already, and now we're having a different motion.

PEGGY CATLIN: You're correct. General Counselor Snyder, what would you suggest with respect to
Director Davidson's suggestion?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think for the sake of the record if we just pause, we did
have a motion from Director Davidson. I don't think we had a second. But we were in the process of
voting.
So I do-- it sounds like maybe there was some misunderstanding about what everyone was voting on. So
what I'd recommend is that we have a restatement from the mover, the previous mover, on what the
motion was. That was Director Whitmore—
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: --so that we're all very clear with who said—
PEGGY CATLIN: On what we're voting on.
MELANIE SNYDER: And then we can take a vote on that if that needs to get voted down or needs to be
amended. And we'll move through that process.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: So thank you, and I apologize to everybody. I was trying to be helpful, and I think I
made it worse. But remember, so my wording was or the appropriate date. Director Davidson has, and
Director Lewis and others have given what I deem an appropriate date, and I saw head nods from staff
for the August Finance Committee meeting. So I would accept Director Davidson's amendment friendly
and do that.
That was my intent. If we do require a vote on that date, that's fine as well. So that was my intent. Thank
you and apologize again.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Does that address folks' concerns? I see a couple more hands raised. Director
Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: We were in the midst of a vote. We were going to leave it up to staff. I think they could
work through that.
There's also a Planning Committee, which ordinarily, this item would come through. And I don't know if it's
before or after the Finance Committee meeting, but that would be an option that you wouldn't want to
foreclose if we could do something a little bit earlier. I don't have a preference, necessarily, but I would
just think the motion as made and voted on was perfectly fine.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So we are going to vote on Director Whitmore's clarified original motion to
postpone. So I know that Director Broom is a no vote. Director Rosenthal, your hand is still up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. And so what we're saying is that we will revisit this issue once senior
leadership has spoken with our stakeholders and that we will set a new date, after hearing from senior
leadership on August 10th, we will hear from them, we will say thank you for that information. Now we will
set a new date in the future.
Or, are we actually setting August 10th for the date that we will actually vote on this? Just my clarification.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would ask Director Whitmore to clarify his motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair? The Finance Committee, if I'm correct, is August 17th, not
August 10th.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, boy. Well, if that is the appropriate meeting per Director Davidson's comments,
I'm fine with that. I don't want to push it into November or December. But whenever that date is
appropriate, we resume the discussion, whether it's 8 million, 12 million, or another number that is agreed
upon from the stakeholders. So thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So let's restate the motion that we need to vote on.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I would restate it, but I want to make sure that I have the date right. Is it the
17th, Barbara or GM Johnson?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it is the 17th, the Finance Committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And is that appropriate with you, GM Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say we could do it the earliest available meeting we have in August which
would be August 10, because we can always do a special finance committee meeting, and I think that
would be most advisable that we do it on August 10.
TROY WHITMORE: I am fine with most advisable from our professional staff. So here we go again, the
motion was to postpone this matter until August 10th.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Is the person who seconded, that was Director Buzek, I believe?
VINCE BUZEK: Yep.

PEGGY CATLIN: And you're still OK—
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, sure. I thought, as Director Cook stated, I thought the original motion was just fine,
because that could encompass August 10th or something earlier. But OK, I'm good.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So Director Rosenthal, your hand is still up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, so we will-- and just to clarify, so we will actually vote on the 8 million or 12
million on August 10th, or we'll just set a date?
PEGGY CATLIN: The original motion is being postponed. The original action is for 12 million and the
amendment, both of those will be carried forward for further discussion after meeting with stakeholders on
August 10th.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. And I'm sorry to my colleagues for belaboring this. It's just there's so
much back and forth. I just want to sure it's eminently clear.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's still in play. It's still in play. We're just postponing this discussion. And then what we
will vote on at that time is still to be determined.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Now I'd like to call for the vote. The mover was Director-- I'm sorry. I'm losing track
here. Director Whitmore, and the second was Director Buzek.
I currently have Director Broom as a no vote. Are there any other no votes? You're a no vote?
BOB BROOM: And just to clarify—
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BOB BROOM: --my preference would be to vote in favor of the original main motion and move it forward
to the Board meeting. And then there's going to be this meeting, I think you said tomorrow, with these
other stakeholders to clarify what the final staff proposal would be. And they could bring that back at the
Board meeting. And if it's necessary, then we could amend the motion and get this taken care of this
month rather than just stringing stuff out forever, but that's my position. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there-- right now I think we need to vote on the proposed motion to postpone. So
Director Broom is a no vote. Director Rosenthal, your hand is up. Are you a no vote?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm a no vote as well.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a no vote.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. We have 3 no votes, and I believe we have 11 votes to postpone. Am I correct?
OK. Director Guissinger, your hand is raised. Is that because you're a no vote or-- OK. So the official vote
is 11 directors in favor of the motion to postpone, and 3 directors opposed-- no.
Excuse me. My mouth is-- yeah. 11 directors in favor of postponing, 3 directors opposed, that being
Directors Broom, Director Rosenthal, and Director Williams. And so the motion carries, and we will be
postponing that. Now, there is an opportunity for people to speak to this matter under other matters, and
so we will move there which is where we are, right? Well, we don't have any other discussion items.
We do have other matters. And for that, I would like to call on Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to point out that I get Robert's Rules of Order, but
I waited really politely. And then the next thing that happened is the whole thing got tabled. And
discussion on it was closed, but 11 other directors had already had their say.
And so I think there ought to be some way to avoid that happening in the future. And I don't think we
should be able to table discussion until everybody that wanted to speak to it has had the chance to speak.
And if I can get myself in order here, I'll speak to what I wanted to speak about, the original $12 million
discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please. I would like-- please. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: I understand that we're talking about the remnants of FasTracks. And I want everybody
to remember that FasTracks was designed in the last century. And that although we've done an amazing
job of implementing most of it, the plan itself is outdated.
8 million or 12 million or 10 million or any number of million would provide a lot of bus service. And it's
been acknowledged throughout the world of transit that BRT is a better more economically feasible
solution in most cases. And we do have a phenomenal BRT service in the Flatiron Flyer, and it's very
appropriate for where it is located and the service that it provides.
I understand that we need to stay involved in regional service, but let us put our dollars into serving those
who are in need of more service and not those who want a train that continues to be completely
controversial. I don't believe that the majority of our investors, those who contribute their tax dollars to our
public transportation service, will support this expense. And my commitment is not only to those in Central
and East Denver, but to all of our constituents.

I think the word stakeholders has been a misnomer throughout this discussion. I think our stakeholders
are actually those people who not only ride RTD, but who pay their tax dollars into RTD. And so
stakeholders, I understand in this discussion referred to our potential partners and a potential Northwest
Rail, but I think that our stakeholders are actually much broader than that. So I will be interested to see
where this goes.
But I need to go on record that I will not vote for any money to support a train in this discussion. Thank
you so much for letting me speak. I appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and my apologies for the circumstances that did not allow you to speak to
the amendments. I do also have some comments to make with regard to this. And I share with Director
Williams some of her concerns.
And I would say that the statement we want to operate from a common set of facts is important. And one
of the reasons we're here today is because those stakeholders in the Northwest area did not believe our
numbers. And granted, they are stale, these numbers, whether it was the original FasTracks proposal-which of course, is out of date, the ridership and the costs associated with that, circumstances have
changed. Also with regard to the original peak service plan study, those numbers need to be refreshed.
So the whole basis for this study was to really take an honest look at the numbers, because they were not
believed by those people in the North. And I agree with that. But I also agree with Henry that maybe it's
premature to hang all those ornaments on the tree, and that's what I believe they are, because we can
really establish a common set of numbers from which to make these decisions going forward.
But I would be very uncomfortable with spending a lot of money on nice-to-haves when we don't even
know if this will be feasible based on the numbers. And in the Accountability Committee, Rutt Bridges did
an analysis that showed, based on the ridership projections, what the subsidy would have to be for a real
study. And right now I know that there are those people that didn't like that analysis either.
But we do need to come up with a common set of numbers. My engineering background and my cost
estimating background tells me that we are not going to see a material difference when you factor in
inflation costs and everything in the original numbers. And my question that I would pose to the
stakeholders in the Northwest is if the numbers don't come back supporting what they want to see, are we
going to have to go back to the drawing board?
I am concerned that this project was not a candidate for a full funding grant agreement, because the
ridership projections were not there. I know that the Administration has changed, politics have changed.
There may be some more infrastructure dollars to put toward this study.
We also can leverage the Front Range Passenger Rail study and others. But we still don't know if these
numbers will result in a feasible project. And I do believe that the-- I voted in favor of the $5 million to $8
million. I'm very concerned about a $12 million figure.

Because I am concerned about the use of our taxpayer dollars. So that concludes my soapbox speech.
Director Buzek, do you have any other matters you would like to discuss?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Thanks, Madam Chair. I just feel it's incumbent upon me to express an opinion on
this as well. The ridership numbers for Northwest Rail are over a decade old.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: So all due deference to Mr. Bridges, his analysis based on decade-old ridership numbers
is flawed at the onset which is why we need this study to figure out what's going on. Because anyone that
lives North and Northwest knows of the explosive growth that has occurred here, both residential and
commercial. So I think that's important.
And while I understand the money in FISA can buy a lot of buses, and BRT is a lovely thing, we don't
have BRT, right? BRT envisions a rubber-tired vehicle on a fixed guideway. We have nice buses that ride
in general purpose lanes or express lanes on the highway. We have B, not BRT.
So there's a big difference between a bus and a rail in a fixed guideway. So we could go on and on about
we promised it, they paid for it. The monies that Longmont and Boulder and everybody along Northwest
corridor brought you the A-line, brought you the G-line, right? They helped pay for those FasTracks
corridors and waited patiently.
Why did they have to wait so long? Because this is the hardest line to figure out. And here we are. We got
to figure something out.
So yeah, maybe the study does show that this is absolutely incredibly difficult. But I think this is the step
we have to take to make that determination, not just guess or base it on anecdotal information. So thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. I think the common theme here is that we do need to
establish a common set of facts and numbers with which to move forward, however we move forward.
OK, are there any other matters to come before this committee tonight? All right.
Our next meeting date, as stated, is scheduled for August 17th. And with that, I would like to adjourn this
meeting at 8:13 PM. I suggest we take a five minute break and reconvene the Civil Rights Committee at
8:00-- well, let's make it 8:20. So we are adjourned.

