Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 1 of 9
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

November 21st, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
November 20th, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D

****
Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer and Walker.
Director Gore arrived late

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Martha Bembry, Frank Buczkowski, Larry
Buter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Libby Cox, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Sylvia V. Francis, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Gary Googins, Kenn Hardin, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono,
Klaas Erin, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Brenden Morgan, Todd Nikkel, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria
Serna, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, Errol Stevens, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Mark Tieman, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Ferd Belz, Claudia Folska, Dan Guimond, Nikki Jackson, Gary Lasater,
Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Special Recognition – GFO 2012 Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
General Manager (GM) Washington asked Director James as the chair of the Finance
Committee to accompany him to recognize Jannette Scarpino and Todd Nikkel for receiving
the GFO 2012 Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. Director James mentioned that this
is the 28th year that RTD has received this award and congratulated both of the staff members
for their success.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 2 of 9
The State of the District Address – Philip A. Washington
GM Washington mentioned that this is the 4th year that they have provided the report; it
started in December of 2009. It is important to review the districts accomplishments and
what the districts goals are in the different departments. He considers this to be the most
important session of the year as they review by the department where the district is.
GM Washington stated that the report includes a review of the different departments’
organizational chart due to changes that occurred through the year. The presentation focused
on the accomplishments and challenges for 2012, as well as goals for 2013 in the areas of
Materials Management and Civil Rights, General Counsel, Finance and Administration, Safety,
Security and Facilities, Communications, Bus and Rail Operations, Planning and Capital
Programs. The presentation will be posted on the web as they do every year.
GM Washington also covered the district-wide emerging challenges and priorities for 2013. In
general the RTD District remains sound, internal processes are strong, base system operations
are safe. There are improvements and challenges that need to be addressed and opportunities
that are achievable. RTD is becoming the “Farm Team” of the industry in terms of sharing
knowledge and is happening based on the awards received.
Director Tobiassen thanked GM Washington for the presentation.
Director Bagley asked about the Northwest Area Mobility Study mentioned on page 32 of the
report and when they plan to initiate it. GM Washington stated that staff expects to have an
RFP at the end of January. Staff has gone through a stakeholders review process and expects
to have the study done by the end of next year. They need to submit the bill in February
2013. Bill Van Meter stated that they expect to have a recommendation presented to the
Board in February.
Director Bagley asked what the timeline is for the implementation of MAP-21 by the federal
government. Staff expressed that it depends on what area of discussion it is. It has some
safety issues and state of good repair among other issues and they have different dates for
when they will come up with the standards; however they need to have the final rule making
by October 31 and guidance 6 months out. Director Bagley suggested keeping the Board up to
speed on what this means and which areas it covers.
Director Tayer commented that with regard to the reduction on preventable accidents
mentioned in page 23 of the report, he remembers that when GM Washington arrived there
have been were several accidents and acknowledge the improvement in preventing and
decreasing the number of accidents. He also asked what the economical impact is for the
training sessions mentioned. GM Washington explained that this is routinely training; they
bring the staff a couple of times a year for refreshment training. This is done in-house by RTD
Training staff and it does not represent a lot of additional cost. They only have to keep into
consideration the time allocation with current trainers. Another part of the process is the
analysis of the accidents. The analysis allows staff to see where we are having the problems.
Bruce Abel stated that this is done district wide and includes contractors and RTD staff. For
many years the contracts with contractors included a 12 hours per year of training
requirement. But this is now a training program and each operator comes each year. The

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 3 of 9
training is changed based on the accidents they are trying to prevent. That includes refreshing
training for serving individuals with disabilities. They adapt every year.
Director O’Boyle commended GM Washington and Staff for the state of of good repair
program, as it has a big impact in the budget process. The entire team has taken care of
things, making them last longer.
Director McMullen stated that this is a great report, honest and straight forward. His
concerned about the fiscal cliff calendar which comes out next month. GM Washington has
looked at that and they believe that RTD will be okay. Buses will still run, train will still run
and he thinks that RTD is solid. Bond balances are starting to grow and have a good plan in
place. There might be some reduction in FasTracks on P3, but we have the financial capability
to take care of those. Reduction in our base subsidy and there is a chance that the 36%
received will be reduce by 7%. This is a small impact to RTD.
Director Deadwyler had a question about the Civil Right Division and what the timeline is for
the development of the EEO and Title VI programs. GM Washington explained that there are
several new rules that have come from the federal level and these items are listed in order to
keep up with the new requirements and we adjust the programs accordingly. Last week they
presented the recommended policies to accommodate those new requirements for Title VI and
they were approved by the Board. Director Deadwyler mentioned that they created the Civil
Rights Division a year ago and nothing has been sent to the Board in term of what that the
Civil Rights Division actually does. GM Washington explained that it is in our plan. They listed
this as a challenge but it is also a 2013 goal to understand the new policies and then
developed the programs and they expect to bring those to the Board. At the next DBE meeting
they will present the role of the Civil Right Division again. Bruce Abel stated that some of the
work that comes out of the Civil Rights office might not be obvious to the Board, but other
departments have to work with the Title VI office as they provide the analysis to make sure
that the service adjustments, fare changes, etc., will not affect protected groups. Director
Deadwyler still wants to see the outline of their role.
Director Walker mentioned that media transit is a plus and asked if paper media could end
soon. GM Washington responded that it could, but they want to do it in an incremental way
so staff can review after each phase; this is very important in order to avoid wasting
resources. They want to eliminate transfers for the operators but it’s in the last phase;
however they need to make sure that SmartCard really works. Director Walker asked if RTD is
contractually obligated to purchase transfers. Bruce Abel stated that they are trying to be
realistic for both our operations teams and the riders in terms of communicating to people
what to expect. The objective is to reduce the paper but completely eliminating it might not
be realistic. This is a behavioral change and if we try to do too much too soon would probably
not be successful.
Director Tobiassen thanked them for the presentation and stated that looking back at the four
years he’s been here and where the organization was, RTD has come a long way.
Director Tobiassen stated that with regard to the fiscal cliff the country went through in 2008,
RTD came out well; otherwise FasTracks would not have happened.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 4 of 9

I.

Recommended Actions
 Purchase Six (6) 45’ Heavy-Duty Intercity Buses (Abel)
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to issue a change order to Contract
12FK002 with Motor Coach Industries (MCI) to add six (6) 45’ heavy duty intercity
buses.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the
motion to move this item to the
November 27th Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel stated that this is essentially housekeeping as the
Board authorized the purchase of 48 Motor Coach Industries (MCI)
buses on May, 2012. The purchase resulted of RTD’s Request
for Proposal, which allows RTD to purchase buses for a five year
period with each successive year pricing being determined on the
initial base price plus the Producer Price Index (PPI). The funding
for these vehicles is part of the 2013 budget.
Director Hoy asked for clarification about the breakdown. Bruce
Abel explained that the purchase is part of the initial allocation and
it will only happen once the budget for 2013 is authorized by the
Board. Staff is submitting this request now in order to be able to
move fast once the budget is approved.
Director Malpiede asked about the DBE certification. Bruce Abel
stated that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) requires each
vehicle manufacturer to submit a DBE for their approval and that
MCI presented the certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its
DBE plan.
Chair Kemp stated that he will be abstaining from the voting in this
recommendation due to a conflict of interest.
Director Daly requested a highlight of the improvements or
changes. Bruce mentioned that the current buses are over 14
years old and require intensive maintenance to keep them in
service.
Director Deadwyler asked what is the cost is for the purchase.
The total amount is $3,275,658 approximately and is included in
the 2013 budget. This will be predicated upon the approval of the
budget and is a formula based on CPI.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 5 of 9
Director Tobiassen asked if the total of buses takes into
consideration all the changes. Bruce stated that it takes into
consideration the inner city fleet and service changes.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Kemp abstained.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED.



Amend Parking Management Program to Include West Line (Genova)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the existing contract with Central
Parking to provide for expansion of the Parking Management program to the West Line
including equipment upgrades, adjustments to financial arrangements and a 3-year
extension of the term of the contract to October 26, 2017 with two, two-year
extensions at RTD’s option. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to amend the existing Board adopted Parking
Management Program to include the West Line park-n-Rides.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to
move this item to the November 27th
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Discussion:

Malpiede

seconded

the

David Genova introduced Errol Stevens and Robin McIntosh. Errol
mentioned that they are at the point where RTD has to implement
the West corridor. Parking industry is shifting to license plate
recognition based revenue control equipment including pay stations
that function the way RTD originally conceive it.
Staff has
learned a lot in the last couple of years. Considering that in 2013
the West Corridor will be open for revenue service, it requires
adding the west corridor to the plan and secondly requires
amending the central parking contract to provide for the upgrade
of what would be half of the facilities and equipment. Better
equipment will be installed. There is a machine in the basement to
try the pay station. It has very straight forward logic you enter the
license plate number, number of dates and it will tell you what you
owe. They will have cameras that will allow to determine when
the vehicle goes in, how long is there and when it leaves. The
details are in the board report. Genova stated that the investment
of this will all be done by Central Parking, very similar to P3 type

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 6 of 9
of investment. Field personnel have counted cards in parking lots.
In the last three years they have gone to the parking lot with a
camera and then they watch whether or not the program is having
a negative impact and whether or not the out of district patrons
have increased or decreased.
It shows that there was a
downward trend and now is back to where it was when the
program started.
The impact in usage is negligible.
The
percentage of out of district use was 8.5% and continues at that
mark. No out of district patrons have been lost.
Director Tayer thanked Errol and the rest of the staff for their work
and stated that he will support the initiative.
Director Bagley asked how many machines will be replaced. Errol
stated that for now only half of the equipment is being
contemplated, but depending on revenue stream it might be
possible to replace all of the machines. Director Bagley stated that
it can be confusing for RTD users when they are getting use to the
new equipment and are faced with one of the old machines; he
asked when staff expects to have the transition completed. Errol
explained that staff expects the revenue trend to continue go up,
but it would be a couple per year before they can replace all the
equipment.
Director Bagley also asked what the cost is for the new
equipment. Errol responded that it will be $8,000 per piece of
equipment and that they will be leased.
David Genova also stated that the methods of payment will be
very convenient. All the patron has to do is set up a method of
payment; they can set up a credit card or pay by phone option,
they would only have to do it once. Director Bagley asked what
percentage of RTD customers are using the system to date. David
mentioned that in terms of automated accounts is lower than
expected. Errol mentioned that is probably 800 accounts but he
does not have the percentage. David Genova mentioned that staff
has seen a steady increase in the number of people signing by
phone. Director Bagley asked what the total cost for the lease is.
The total amount is $700,000 for the term of the lease starting in
2013 to 2016, 2 1/2 year
Direct Hoy mentioned that he really likes the current system and
ask if the new machines are easier to use and what about people
with disabilities. Robin McIntosh responded that they are ADA
compliant. Director Hoy also asked why we don’t charge for
people that are out of the district. Staff responded that we do and
they pay a higher rate.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 7 of 9
Director Malpiede stated that she want to make sure that the new
machines are user friendly. Where she parks the machines are
facing the sunlight and it makes it very hard to see. She wants to
make sure the users will have a contact number in case they are
having issues. Errol stated that these machines are user friendly
and they all have a have a method of contact posted in them. He
also mentioned that with regard to the sunlight, they checked one
machine with direct sun light and they are very easy to read and it
looks like it works better with the sun light. The machines do a
very good job taking advantage of the light. Director Malpiede also
stated that font needs to be readable. David Genova stated that
they will have a method of contact and that patrons having issues
with the machine can be assisted to get an automated account
that way they don’t have to use the machines.
Director Anderson thanked them for the report.
Director O’Boyle asked why Central Parking is increasing the
managing fee. Errol stated that there are three of the investment
that they have made that Central Parking have made and have not
been able to recover from the revenue stream.
This is an
incentive. They can increase the management fee but they have
to increase the revenue stream and keep the cost down. Central
Parking is making the investment. Director O’Boyle also asked
how the facilities with mixed used are managed. Errol stated that
each facility has a different set of circumstances, but the machine
will only be use by the RTD patrons in any one of those locations.
In those locations with mixed use they control by having the RTD
patrons park in one area. In Lincoln the segregation is done by
time period. Also there is signage for non RTD parking. Director
Bagley requested more details on the management of those
facilities. Staff will provide that.
Director Walker asked how the customers will be notified of the
change.
Staff mentioned that they will do some sort of
introduction. They expect that people will be happy with the
change. Director Walker asked what happens if they do not
remember their license plate number. Staff responded that patrons
will have to know their license plate and they need to know if they
are in or out of the district. The machines will be located near the
ticketing machine at rail locations and conveniently and accessible
at the bus stations.
Director Gore asked if someone makes a mistake, how do they fix
it. Errol explained that there are two or three levels, if they catch
the mistake while in the machine, they can cancel the transaction
and start over. Otherwise, they need to contact Central Parking.
They maintain a call center and they process the calls. If they
receive a ticket, it will have a telephone number and explains why

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 8 of 9
they got the ticket. Patrons can call the number provided with the
ticket and if there is evidence of good faith effort adjustments will
be done. Director Gore asked what evidence is used. Errol stated
that the machines record every key punched, there is a complete
record of the transaction.
Director Gore asked if RTD works with law enforcement agencies
and if RTD is obligated to provide information. David Genova
answered that that is not happening, but is something that is
possible.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14 members
in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Deadwyler stepped out of the
meeting during the vote.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

II. Updates
 Parking Management Program (Genova)
Item was combined with the recommended action on the Amend Parking Management
Program to Include West Line.


Smart Card Project Status Update (Googins)
Bruce Abel and Gary Googins mentioned that vehicle installations are underway. The
portions required for EcoPass, CollegePass & Neighborhood Pass have been prioritized.
Full update is included in the packet.
Director Tayer asked if staff has heard of security concerns about the cards. Bruce
stated that they have and that some of the concerns are coming from the credit card
world. Gary Googins explained that because credit cards need to be read at any
retail/store they are in an open network. In the smart card case, it is only going to be
used in our buses and retailer; it is in a close system.
Director Bagley asked if the team is confident that we are going to meet the schedule
and achieve what we wanted. Bruce stated that they are 41 days out and have
approximately 80% of the bus validators installation done and 70% for rail validators
installation. Also, there are number of cards already issued. The team is working very
diligently and expects to be able to ready for the EcoPass project.



Radio-CAD/AVL Project Status Update (Farrington)
Bruce Abel stated that the update is included in the Board packet.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 20th, 2012

Pago 9 of 9
Director Daly stated that he cannot understand why the bus installation is not on target.
Eric Farrington stated that the contractor estimated an 8 hr per bus installation;
however they are taking about 16 hours, double the time they had estimated.
III. Other Matters
Director Gore stated that he attended the Brighton Economic Development Corporation
(BEDC) and Brighton Urban Renewal Authority (BURA) Gala and he accepted an award on
behalf of Bruce Abel as they recognized Bruce for his support of the Brighton Pavilion.
Director Daly informed the attendees that Henry Stopplecamp will be holding a Rail 201
Class on December 18th at 8:00am lunch will be provided. This is very interesting; it will
be at the FasTracks office. All new directors are welcome to join.
Director Anderson encouraged the new elected members and anybody that has not taken
the class to do so. It is great information.
IV. Next Meeting Date – December 11th, 2012
V. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

