Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2012, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

July 12, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 12,
2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
(Corrected)
***
Board Members Present:
1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair Cohen,
Treasurer Bagley, Secretary Malpiede
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
1st Vice Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at
12:01 p.m.

I.
Approval of July Board Agenda Review
General Manager Washington introduced this item. He also shared that former
Director Jack McCroskey will be recognized as one of the founders of the light rail
system.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to approve
the award recognition for former Director
McCroskey.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Director Bagley made the motion to move the
July Board Meeting Agenda before the full
Board at the regular Board meeting on
7/17/12

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2012, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 3
Discussion:

Vote on the
Motion:




Director Malpiede seconded the motion.
Director Bagley shared that the GM
Oversight and Performance Management
Committee had approved the General
Manager’s 2013 goals to take before the full
Board. The General Manager had made a
revision to task goal 3 at the request of the
committee. The Committee will work closely
with the GM on putting a plan together for
the community outreach and becoming the
face of RTD.
The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Approval of General Manager’s 2013 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee that the Board of directors
approve the General Manager’s goals for 2013.



Contract amendment to increase Triunity Engineering & Management,
Inc. annual not-to- exceed limit contract amount.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the Triunity
Engineering & Management, Inc. (Triunity) (Contract Number
12DK001B) to increase the contract amount annual not-to-exceed
limit from $500,000 to $1,000,000. The contract is structured on a
negotiated labor hourly rate schedule; for a one-year period with
annual extension options for an additional four (4) years (potential
total contract duration of five (5)-years).

Recommended Action


Contract amendment to increase Dataman USA’s annual not-toexceed limit contract amount.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the Dataman
USA LLC (Contract Number 12DK001A) to
in increase the contract amount annual not-to-exceed limit from
$500,000 to $1,000,000. The contract is structured on a negotiated
labor hourly rate schedule; for a one-year period with annual
extension options for an additional four (4) years
(potential total contract duration of five (5)-years).

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 12, 2012, at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 3


2013–2018 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2013-2018
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).

II. Other Matters
 Director Tayer expressed concern over the growing number of
complaints from constituents and elected officials about some of the
advertisements. He requested that staff bring this issue before the
Board in one of the committee meetings so the policies can be
reviewed and options considered.
 Director Bagley requested that staff show more sensitivity and look
for ways to incent for greater flexibility in TOD development.
 Director Bagley stated he is aware of the Northwest corridor transit
systems plan being discussed and initiated and he is in favor of
looking for some way to make this happen and incorporate key
stakeholders in the community. All of the other Directors expressed
their support as well.
 Director Bagley indicated he would be meeting with a couple of
people related to the Southwest corridor expansion. He requested a
community forum in that area prior to the general election.
 Director Bagley reported that they had received feedback from the
General Manager on the term sheet for his contract. He and Chair
Kemp are working with the employment attorney and consider this a
high priority.
 Director Malpiede expressed concern over the fact that the Board
staff cannot park in the RTD parking lot and have to park offsite.
They are often the last to leave the building and she expressed
concern over their safety. She asked if we could consider using a
couple of the spaces for the Board staff to park. General Manager
Washington indicated he would talk to security and look into this.
 General Manager Washington shared that the decisions related to use
of funds, DRCOG decision, etc., are all tough choices. Staff has
been having some incredibly constructive meetings and he believes
we will be able to get more done than by a tax increase. He
identified what he calls the remaining Big Three Corridors (US 36,
Northwest Rail and North Metro) and asked the Board to allow them
to work the issues and continue to move forward. He stated the RTD
agency is seasoned in knowing how to chase money. They believe
the Statesmen like approach will be most effective for the total
region.
Director Bagley requested that even as we focus on the Big 3, to
include the little 3 as well.
III. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

