Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, March 13, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Ken Mihalik

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Mihalik called the meeting to order at 5:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:48 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:48 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Remote
Present

5:48 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:48 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Remote

Ken Mihalik

Committee Chair

Present

5:50 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:53 PM
5:48 PM
5:48 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:48 PM

5:48 PM

Directors Anderson, Folska, and Menten participated via phone. Director Sisk was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Nicole Carey, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Lou Cripps, Heather Deckard, Kevin Diviness, Michael Ford,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Laurie
Huff, Dave Jensen, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Todd Nikkel, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Greg
Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Rebecca Tate, Mark Tieman,
Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington, Luke
Westlund

Others Present:

Doug Brockwell, Peggy Catlin, Shelley Cook, Gary Forbes, William
Gross, Zachary Kiefer, Shintel Lewis, Scott McCarey, Cythia Menge,
Joel Nohle, Tom Peterson, Pedro Ramos, Pam Stiff, Matt Sabor,
David Sachs, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Contracts for Legal Services
It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to negotiate and execute contracts, including contract amendments, to
engage, or continue to engage, outside legal counsel to represent RTD for a
total amount not to exceed $8.5 million.
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3
Management and GM Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
Motion:

Strong

Financial

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 27, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Assistant
General Manager of Finance and Administration stated that
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Deputy General Counsel, would discuss
this item.
Ms. Ross-Amato explained that this action would cover the
anticipated litigation costs for 2018, but noted that it did not
include funds for potential payments of potential claims.
Director Lubow commented that this was a lot of money for a
year’s worth of legal expense.

Director Broom asked if staff had engagement letters with law
firms, and if so how many were involved.
Ms. Ross-Amato stated that, at that time, three firms were
involved, and RTD had contracts with each of them.
Director Solano inquired as to what portion of these funds
would be spent on litigation for the North Metro line.
Ms. Ross-Amato explained that his action concerned litigation
for two FasTracks projects, including North Metro and Eagle.
She noted that the money listed was the anticipated amount
RTD might spend in 2018, but she stated the money would
not be spent unless it was necessary.
Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

• Resolution to join Colorado Statewide Investment Pool
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves and adopts Resolution ___ for RTD to join
the Colorado Statewide Investment Pool (CSIP), a local government
investment pool (LGIP).
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3
Management and GM Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
Motion:

Strong

Financial

Director Williams made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 27, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop said that Heather Deckard, Senior Finance
Analyst, would introduce this item and explain why staff was
asking the Board to approve this item.
Ms. Deckard stated that staff was asking the Board to adopt
the indenture for RTD’s CFO and designee to invest funds in
Colorado’s Statewide Investment Pool (CSIP). She noted that

currently, RTD invests funds in Colorado’s two other local
government investment pools (LGIP) CSAFE and ColoTrust.
She added that the CSIP was relatively new and would allow
RTD to shop around for where to invest its money in order to
earn more investment income.
Committee Chair Mihalik said the CSIP is brand new and its
rating is more prescribed than earned.
Ms. Deckard explained that the rating was tied to the
underlying credit of the local governments participating in the
pool. She said that some of the governments that partook in
the creation of CSIP had AAA credit.
Ms. McKillop added that RTD did not have to invest in CISP by
approving this action item, but it allowed RTD to have the
option to do so.
Director Archuleta inquired as to what other governments
were investing in CSIP.
Ms. Deckard commented that any local government within
Colorado could participate in the investment of the pool and
said that she would provide the Board with a list of cities and
counties that were on the Trustee Board of Directors for the
pool.
Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kate Williams, Director, District A
SECONDER: Bob Broom, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

• Approval of the 2018-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a new
three (3) year RTD and ATU Local 1001 Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA) effective March 1, 2018 – February 28, 2021 for all represented RTD
employees.
This action support Task Goal #1, Fiscal Sustainability and Task Goal #2,
Workforce and Human Capital.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the March 27,
2018 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that she and Mike Meader, Chief Safety
Officer/Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security, &
Asset Management, were happy to present this item to the
Board. She said that the RTD Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA) negotiation team included herself, Mike Meader, Doug
MacLeod, Controller, Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, and James Cook, Labor Relations
Manager. She also thanked the RTD and Union negotiators for
their time and efforts during the months long negotiation
process. She noted that many of the discussions during the
five-month process centered on working conditions related to
the amount of overtime employees work and access to
restrooms. She said that some of the terminology in the
agreement may sound strange, but it helped the negotiators
reduce RTD’s dependence on mandating overtime. She noted
that the Board Report outlined the wage provisions, which
included health and welfare contributions and retirement
benefits. She commented that the elephant in the room during
negotiations was the pension plan. She noted that the
contribution rates were kept the same with 13% for employer
and 5% for employee, however, RTD agreed to make lump
sum contributions of $6.2 million in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to
help the trust be funded at 70% in thirty years. She
commented that another large issue was focused on the
salaries employees were paid. She stated that RTD needed to
be able to attract and retain workers in the current
environment and, in order to address that, RTD aimed to stay
within the median salary for the various classifications. The
increases proposed in the Board Report were an appropriate
level based on the working conditions and the current
unemployment rate in the Denver metro area. She noted that
the team for this negotiation cycle focused on the Denver
market instead of comparing RTD against other peer transit
agencies.
Director Williams said that this was great news. She added
that she was aware that staff had worked very hard on this,
and the information she heard from her community was that
they were very excited about it.

Ms. McKillop added that the union vote occurred the previous
Saturday and it passed 89% in favor and 11% against.
Director Deadwyler thanked the negotiating team. She said
that this negotiation was much different from the negotiation
five years ago and she was happy with how it turned out. She
stated that everyone was happy and staff did an excellent job.
Director Lubow asked why having the pension trust 70%
funded in thirty years was a good thing.
Ms. McKillop explained that currently the pension was only
funded at 46%, which was not an acceptable level. She said
that 70% was the minimum acceptable funding level and 80%
would be even better. She noted that the negotiating team
tried to make significant steps to change that, and the $6.2
million lump sum contributions in 2018, 2019, and 2020
would be an incredible achievement in getting closer to the
70% figure. She added that the actuarials would speak to the
Board about the pension trust at an upcoming meeting and it
would be better for them to answer specific questions.
Director Lubow asked if it would still take 30 years to get to
70%.
Ms. McKillop said yes, as that timeframe takes into
consideration employees, the current contributions made to
the plan, upcoming retirees, and employee life expectancy.
She noted that based on all of those factors, it would take a
considerable amount of time to get to 70%.
Director Lubow inquired if any employee’s pension was in
jeopardy.
Ms. McKillop remarked that, without any intervention, there
was a possibility of future retirees having issues, but this
action would take care of their pension when the time comes.
Director Lubow asked if RTD increased wages, which she is
very happy to do, would that affect the agency’s ability to
provide services.
Ms. McKillop stated that for the current year, the Board had
approved a budget of $17 million dollars for the CBA changes.
She said that, for all of the elements relating to the work
environment, pension, health and welfare, and wages, the

negotiating team was able to stay within that budget. She
noted that the issue would arise in future years as raises will
be compounded against a higher dollar amount. She remarked
that in the future, RTD would have to made adjustments
related to the increase in wages and may have to right-size
service because of the headcount issue.
Director Broom inquired as to what kind of increase in sales
tax revenue would RTD need in order to cover the increase in
wages.
Ms. McKillop noted that she had not reviewed the exact
calculation but noted that the additional cost in 2019 was
close to $3 to $4 million dollars, and it would be $4 to $5
million in 2020.
Director Broom asked whether the new starting wage would
allow RTD to hire a significant number of new operators which
would then help the pension with having new employees on
board.
Ms. McKillop said yes, and explained that if more people were
contributing to the trust and not drawing it down, it would
help to shore up the pension.
Director Broom inquired if the hiring of new operators would
save RTD on overtime pay.
Ms. McKillop remarked that, if RTD could get fully staffed with
operators, overtime would be significantly reduced and less
costly in the long run.
Director Archuleta commented that he had been researching
truck driver wages and he found that they were making $22
an hour, whereas RTD was only paying $19.40 an hour. He
asked if RTD would ever get to $22 for operator pay.
Ms. McKillop explained that the negotiating team looked at
wages in the Denver metro area and in the vehicle operator
field; $19.40 was slightly above mid-range. She noted that
RTD needed to be competitive, but wages alone would not get
it there. She stated that the starting wage, increase in health
and welfare benefits, as well as a decrease in mandating
should assist in solving the operator shortage.

Director Archuleta stated that young drivers do not care about
pensions. He remarked that younger employees want to be
able to support their families and to be safe while working. He
added that RTD was short 140 bus drivers and there was too
much competition in the job market.
Director Hoy noted that 89% of RTD’s drivers were very
happy with the outcome of the CBA, and to him, that was a
good indicator that the union was appreciative of the efforts
the negotiating team put in.
Chair Tisdale congratulated everyone for a job well done.
Director
Anderson
thanked
everyone
involved
and
congratulated everyone on a job well done. She said that 89%
was a great number, and she would vote in favor of this.
Director Folska thanked staff and the union for a job well
done. She added that she was thrilled with the outcome and
she would be a resounding yes vote.
Director Menten said that she did not agree that this action
met the General Manager’s Task Goal #1 for Fiscal
Sustainability. She said, with the pension, RTD was not
addressing enough of the issue with its lack of funding and
looking at RTD’s long-term fiscal sustainability, so she would
be a no vote.
Committee Chair Mihalik said he would echo Director
Menten’s comments on fiscal sustainability. He said that, as
rare as pensions are these days, it would take thirty years to
get to the 70% funding level for the pension trust, but more
needed to be done to address that before the next thirty years.
Committee Chair Mihalik declared the motion PASSED.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Natalie Menten, Ken Mihalik
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

C. Updates

• Pass Working Group Update
Committee Chair Mihalik asked if Chair Tisdale had a comment or instruction for this
update.
Chair Tisdale said that this was only an informational report to the Board. He emphasized
that this was part of a long process, which still had to be reviewed by the Senior
Leadership Team (SLT) before coming back to the Board. He reiterated that this item was
only informational and encouraged everyone not to debate the merits of any
recommendation at this time, or to discuss one option over another.
Committee Chair Mihalik added that that Board should not be premature in its questions or
judgements.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, commented that he would turn the
presentation over to Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager. He noted that SLT first
saw the Pass Program Working Group’s (PPWG) recommendation the previous week and
that SLT was just starting to review the information and figure out a process on how to
proceed. He explained that Mr. Washington would demonstrate the process through the
end of the year.
Mr. Washington said that the PPGW was concerned with market segments such as:
 Businesses
 College Students
 Low-Income
 Neighborhoods
 Youth
He said that as the group was doing their work, there was a whole spectrum that they
wanted to analyze and review and there were three options, with three themes:
 Option B
o Bulk Purchasing
o Low-Income Program
 Option C
o Utilization Based Pricing
o Low-Income Program



Option E
o Insurance Model (variation of today)
o Low-Income Program
o Youth Program

Quantitative analysis and fare modeling included:
 The objective of the fare modeling was to understand ridership impacts and how
close the options would be to reaching the Strategic Budget Plan revenue
targets
 RTD’s Strategic Budget Plan has assumed fare changes every three years, with
the next fare revenue increase of 10% planned for 2019
 A baseline fare model was run to estimate the potential fares necessary in 2019
to reach the Strategic Budget Plan fare revenue target
 This base fare was used to help in understanding the tradeoffs between offering
pass programs, discounts provided, and the base fare
Baseline modeling assumptions were outlined as:
 Baseline model was calibrated based on the FY2019 fare revenue target
 ~12% fare increase required to reach the FY2019 fare revenue target
o Local Regular One-Way Fare: $2.90 (currently $2.60)
o Regional Regular One-Way Fare: $5.00 (currently $4.50)
o Airport Regular One-Way Fare: $10.00 (currently $9.00)
 All fares types remain and are assumed to increase by the same percentage
growth
 All current pass multiples and discounts retained
Initial options analysis showed:
 The modeling of the three options resulted in a revenue shortfall
 Eliminating discounts did not result in a significant reduction in the cash base
fare
 Eliminating pass programs resulted in the loss of ridership and revenue
 The ridership generated by discounts offered do not offset the revenue losses
due to discounts
 A variation of Option E that retained the pass programs while offering discounts
to those who need the subsidy the most (i.e., low income and youth riders) best
met the desired outcomes of the PPWG
The PPWG Recommendation included:
 Increase ease of accessing pass programs and discounts
 Introduce a Low-Income Fare Program
 Increase the discount for young people
 Continue EcoPass, Neighborhood EcoPass, and CollegePass Programs, priced
based on cash value of trips taken
 Replace 3-hour one-way transfer with a 3-hour pass
 Retain day and monthly passes




Link the timing of a fare increase with the start-up date for the
recommendations for pass program changes
Initial modeling indicated that an increase in the base fare would be necessary
to reach Strategic Budget Plan fare revenue targets

The Low-Income Fare program would be based on:
 An income threshold of 185% of the federal poverty level with minimum of a
40% discount
 The Affordable Fares Task Force had previously been evaluating an income
threshold of 150% of the federal poverty level with a 50% discount
 The PPWG desired to expand access to the program by increasing the income
threshold
 Interest in increasing discount to 50% if funds available
Lower fares for Youth would:
 Increase the youth discount from 50% to 70%
 In addition to youth 5 & under, allowing youth 6-12 to ride for free with a farepaying rider
 The same discount would be provided to partner organizations such as schools,
not-for-profit organizations and municipalities to purchase passes for distribution
to youth
PPWG Modeling Assumptions were:
 Cash Fare = $3.00 / $5.25 / $10.50
 3-Hour Pass
 Stored Value discount = eliminated ($0.00)
 10-Ride Ticket discount = eliminated (longer term discontinue 10-Rides)
 Day Pass = 2X Cash Fare
 Monthly Pass = 38X Cash Fare
 Senior / Disabled / Medicare = 50% discount
Recommendation Impacts on revenue and ridership showed:
 Preliminary Modeling shows that the PPWG recommendations can be
implemented to meet RTD’s Strategic Budget Plan revenue targets and retain
ridership while increasing the discounts provided to those who need subsidies
the most [i.e., low income and youth riders] – pending further analysis
 Determining how programs are implemented may have significant impacts on
the revenue generated and may result in difficult tradeoffs between the cash
base fare and reaching the Strategic Budget Plan revenue targets
Staff will conduct a detailed analysis and attempt to answer the big picture questions
regarding the recommendation, such as:
 How could the recommended changes implemented?
 How could the recommended changes be administered?
 What are the costs of implementation and administration?






How would the recommendations change fare enforcement?
What would be the technological requirements?
How long would it take to implement recommended changes?
What impact will the recommended changes have on ridership and fares?

The timeline includes the next steps:
 March/April
o Staff analysis of PPWG Recommendation
 Quarter 2-3
o Public Meetings
o Board Update
o Public Input Summary
 Quarter 2
o Board Update
o Draft Pass Program & Fare Change Proposal
 April 24th
o Board Study Session
o Pass Program & Fare Analysis Update
 Quarter 3
o Board Committee Meeting
o Pass Program & Fare Change
o Official Board Meeting
o Pass Program & Fare Change
Director Williams asked anyone from the PPWG in the audience to please stand. She noted
that the PPWG members worked 20 hours a week for a year, for free. She added that they
were very careful to consider everyone affected by this, and she commended General
Manager Genova for being the party that implemented this. She further added that the
Board would be looking at something that matters to the public as a whole.
Director Broom inquired if the PPWG considered peak and off peak fares.
Mr. Washington said no, they did not.
Director Solano asked if the state legislature was attempting to usurp RTD’s power by the
recent bill proposed.
General Manager Genova said yes and added that the proposed Senate bill just came to
RTD’s attention the previous day. He remarked that the bill would not allow RTD to pass
any further discount programs without legislative approval. He added that he did not think
it would make it all the way through the legislative process.
Director Lubow asked staff to explain the basis for some of the cutoff points, such as
children under 12 riding for free with a fare paying adult.

Mr. Washington said that the group was incorporating comments from the public, and one
of the things they heard was that allowing children 12 and younger to ride free would
help.
Director Lubow commented that the Board had received a letter from a constituent who
did not quality for low-income but would be affected by any fare increases. She asked
how RTD was going to establish the right cutoff line and how difficult would it be for
others because of what the PPWG wanted RTD to do.
Director Hoy remarked that RTD only has so much revenue to work with. He said that, if
someone gets a reduction or a free ride, someone else is paying for it. He stated that, as
RTD moves forward, the agency has to remember that some of its passengers, including
people that do not utilize the system, are paying more into the system so that others may
ride for free.
Director Walker asked if one child under 12 could ride for free per paid fare, or several
children.
Mr. Washington commented that at this time it was unspecified.
Director Menten echoed Director Hoy’s comments and said that a balanced sheet would
have to work for both sides.
Director Anderson said that she would like to make sure the Board asks what kind of
adjustment would have to be made to service when this was done. She also asked which
entity would determine low-income and verify that status.
Director Folska, Ph.D, thanked Mr. Washington and Director Williams for participating in
the PPWG. She asked Mr. Washington to repeat the fare increases he had mentioned.
Mr. Washington said that the PPWG had recommended cash fares be raised to $3.00 for a
single ticket, $5.25 for a day pass, and $10.50 for the airport.
Director Folska, Ph.D., noted that the age of 12 seemed like an arbitrary number. She
added that, the last time RTD raise fares, the consultant who reviewed that process could
have analyzed the pass programs. She said that the Board kept paying for studies and
redundant information and this process could have been more efficient.
Director Solano referred to children under 12 riding for free, and asked how old the paying
customer needed to be.
Mr. Washington said that the PPWG recommendation did not specify the age of the fare
paying rider.
Director Solano commented that the Board would need clarification on that.

Director Lubow said that she was concerned with the ten-day pass being terminated in
this process because there were people who do not have the money to pay for a monthly
pass. She said that, if the ten-day pass went away, that group would be adversely
affected.

• January 2018 Monthly Financial Status Report
Ms. McKillop explained that this report was for the first month of the year, as these are
typically a few months behind. She said that staff had positive news in that, for the first
month of the year, the agency’s sales and use tax revenue was up 6.3%, ridership was up
2%, and fare revenue was up 4.9%. She noted that there were a few numbers in red, and
one category was the Actual vs. Budget. She added that this was a good way to start the
year.
Director Broom asked if the January sales tax figures were for December sales.
Ms. McKillop said yes.
Director Williams commented that, as she reviewed the ridership by type, it appeared as
though it balanced out, but she understood from conversations with staff that it was
actually down.
Ms. McKillop commented that ridership was up year over date, but compared to the
budget, it was slightly down.
Director Hoy said that he was curious about the business that improperly collected RTD
taxes.
Ms. McKillop explained that it was a vendor with mulitiple locations in the RTD district
that had collected taxes under one address instead of multiple addresses. She said that the
vendor had to back out their returns and fix them with the correct information. She noted
that, if they had improperly collected RTD taxes, the vendor would not be able to keep
those funds.
Director Anderson commented that, in terms of projections, 2% is spot on and, while RTD
has a great staff, they would never be exactly right.
Director Folska, Ph.D., inquired where RTD was with the marijuana tax.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said that staff was waiting to hear about a ruling from the
Colorado Supreme Court on the marijuana tax issue. He said that staff would inform the
Board as soon as that ruling was decided. He explained that the ruling might affect a vote
to collect the tax revenue that RTD did not receive.

• Fourth Quarter 2017 Performance Report
Ms. McKillop said that the detailed reports were included in the packet. She said that
reports covered the end of year for 2017, and the numbers were similar to the third
quarter reports. She noted that overall, light rail on-time performance exceeded the goal,
complaints took an average of 10.7 days, ridership was down 1.9%, and fare and
operating revenue was down slightly. She added that the agency met 33 of 41, or 80%,
of the goals for 2017.

• Fiscal Sustainability Update
Ms. McKillop stated that the information provided had not changed since the last update.
She said that service optimization continues to be reviewed, and staff was still working to
have three months of operating reserves on hand. She added that staff continued to look
for naming rights opportunities, as well as reviewing charging for parking, tolls and
managed lanes, and home rule initiatives.
Director Hoy asked what home rule initiative was.
Ms. McKillop commented that many cities have implemented home rule initiative. She said
that, if RTD collected its own taxes, it might be able to collect more than it currently
received and it would allow the agency to vote on certain exemptions, or not. She
explained that currently, if the state has an exemption, RTD has that same exemption, but
if the state does not, then RTD does not.

• Budget/SBP/ and Financial Plan Calendar
Ms. McKillop said that each year staff presented a financial calendar to the Board that was
a continual process. She said that the Financial Administration and Audit Committee would
be in front of the Board each month with an update or some other type of activity. She
noted that staff’s goal had been to bring the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the Annual
Program Evaluation (APE) into one unified document and planning process. She explained
that staff had been working on that process by making them occur in the same timeframe,
and this year, they would both be presented in one comprehensive document, which
would now be referred to as the Mid-Term Financial Plan. She explained that staff hoped
to have the 2019 plan adoption completed by August or September.
Director Broom inquired if the state legislature provided a new start-up date for the
collection of marijuana sales tax revenue, or if it was stayed by the courts.
Mr. Asphaug said that the legislature did not provide a specific start-up date. He noted
that the Colorado Department of Revenue would not collect marijuana sales taxes until the
RTD Board provided a specific date and decision. He explained that staff was waiting to

provide a recommendation to the Board until the current Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights (TABOR)
case had been decided.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Genova stated that the Operations and Customer Service meeting was
so expeditious that he did not get the opportunity to introduce the new Assistant General
Manager of Rail Operations, Dave Jensen. He said that Mr. Jensen came to RTD after
working 30 years for the Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) in San Diego. He noted that
staff was excited to have him on board as Terry Emmons was retiring at the end of March.
Chair Tisdale said that the Director designate for District N, Ms. Peggy Catlin, was in the
room and he looked forward to having her sworn in at the Board Meeting on March 27th.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 10, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Mihalik adjourned the meeting at 7:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

