2023-11-28
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have started the recording, started a little after we did. But we have done
the Pledge of Allegiance and the Land Acknowledgment. I'm going to do the roll now and then we will
have the Statement of Employee Appreciation.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Lynn Guissinger. I am also here. So with 15 present and 0 absent, we
have a quorum.
Director Ruscha, would you please read out the Statement of Employee Appreciation?
JOYANN RUSCHA: The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's
dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do extraordinary things to
make lives better through connections. We honor their work of delivering transit excellence, service, and
value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful moments. May the actions
taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude, commitment, and support toward all
RTD employees.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. One of the many rewarding duties of serving on the Board is
the recognition of RTD retirees. The time has come for us to recognize the employees who have moved
on to enjoy their retirement.
At this time, I have two names of employees who have retired since September. Chuck Kulig, who was a
construction manager of engineering for 21 years, and Rocky Whelan, a manager at rail services delivery
for 22 years. Unfortunately, my understanding is our retirees were unable to attend tonight's meeting, but
I would like to thank them again for their hard work, commitment, and dedication to RTD.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. As
we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who
are participating remotely.
For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you've not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for additional
speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed
in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
I would note that tonight we have an additional public comment period in the public hearing on the
budget. So if you have comments for the public hearing on the budget, there will be another opportunity
later in the meeting to raise those comments.

Please bear in mind if you're speaking now that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If
you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any member of the public would like to
submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks please by stating your name, and you'll have up to
three minutes to provide your comments.
Has anyone signed up to speak?
JACK KROLL: Madam Chair, we have no individuals present who have indicated a desire to speak. We
do have three individuals online with their hands raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Who is our first speaker, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: We have a Mr. Cody Bryan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Say that again, please.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Cody Bryan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Cody Ryan is our first speaker. If you would, please state your name and
proceed.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Bryan, you'll need to unmute yourself and you can commence your comments.
CODY BRYAN: Good evening. My name is Cody Bryan and thank you for this opportunity to speak.
General Manager Debra Johnson and the Board talk of creating a welcoming transit environment. A lack
of cleanliness, threatening behavior, and even open drug use are part of the unfortunate reality for riders
of RTD in 2023.
While RTD attempts to staff its internal security team to create a safer experience across the system, it
appears the only area budgeted for outreach is a police presence, a police presence which, to my
understanding, is incapable of making arrests and therefore limited in enforcing RTD's own code of
conduct. Why hire officers if they're limited in their function?
Armed officers acting as the first line of engagement with transit riders also doesn't foster the most
approachable or welcoming environment. Officers should not be the only approach that RTD takes but
rather part of the equation towards a multi-layered solution. Cities like Los Angeles and Seattle have
experimented with ambassadors who can help passengers with wayfinding, ticketing questions and act as
a first level of response if issues do arise.
Could RTD look into the possibility of a pilot program for using such ambassadors? With RTD's proof of
payment system, ambassadors could help enforce fares, increase fare recovery rates, and discourage
riders from violating the code of conduct.

In addition, as we've seen with Denver's STAR program and others like it around the country, having
trained mental health and behavioral health professionals responding to specific incidents could be far
more effective than simply dispatching a police presence. Has RTD considered hiring or partnering with
other organizations that have mental health professionals be dispatched if a situation calls for it?
I believe that in order for RTD to achieve a welcoming transit environment, it needs to have a multilayered approach. One size does not fit all situations and simply having armed officers to tackle all these
issues will result in minimal progress for our city's transit. I encourage GM Johnson and the Board to look
beyond just hiring armed security to fix the problems riders and operators see every day on the buses,
trains, and at the stations.
Thank you for your time and good night.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bryan. And I appreciate your comments. And we typically don't
respond, but I will say that RTD has been working in those directions and continues. So thank you.
Who is our next speaker, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes. We have a Mr. Scott Ramming.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Ramming, please state your name and you may go ahead.
MICHAEL SCOTT RAMMING: OK. My name is Michael Scott Ramming, PhD, PE. For a disclaimer, just
wanted to be clear that I'm not speaking on behalf of any former employer or other organization. These
opinions are my own personal.
I'd like to comment on a variety of topics. And I'd begin that there are some resources that the US DOT
and even a decade old NCHRP report published dealing with effective ways of engaging with the public
and building relationships with the community. I'd encourage some of those techniques, such as early
engagement, as with service planning not waiting until the decisions have been made on proposals of
which routes to eliminate or shorten or restructure, but beginning with the community, perhaps having an
earlier meeting saying, these are the routes that we want to look at because they're underperforming,
what are your concerns as a community.
Also, having opportunities where there can be a back and forth dialogue between members of the public
and staff or Board members is very helpful. Just wanted to remind you that your drivers and your riders
are really your best resources for how the system is working at any given time day to day.
Please keep the GTFS RTD updated and make substitute stops on detours, especially unplanned
detours. There was one night a couple of weeks ago when Xcel Energy had closed the intersection of
18th and Stout, which was where I wanted to transfer between routes 1 and 43. And we took a really
circuitous path until I just finally said to the driver, please let me out here and I will just walk.
And those are my notes. I'm surprised that there aren't-- I know there are other members of the Greater
Denver Transit Group who were gathering upstairs and are probably trying to filter through security. They
have a lot of good ideas, are also frequent riders. And I'd recommend listening to them as well.
So thank you for your time and attention.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much, Mr. Ramming.

Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. We have a Mr. Paolo Solorzano.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Welcome, Mr. Solorzano. If you could state your name, please, and then proceed.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Solorzano, if you can hear me, you'll need to unmute before you can begin your
remarks.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: I'm sorry. Hi. This is Paolo Solorzano. I'm with the RTD Riders Alliance. We're a
group of transit riders. We're working on just improving service and reliability and safety. But I'm calling
specifically about the survey, the September survey that was done regarding the experience that RTD
riders have regarding service disruptions.
As a group, myself and as a group, the transit riders in our group really disagree with what the results
came out with, the the 22 percentage point increase for, according to the survey, if RTD experiences, a
quote, "if RTD experiences disruptions, I am adequately informed." That has not been the case. I'm not
sure how RTD had gotten to that figure. And the point I'm trying to make is that we can't have what
happened over the last summer happen again when the construction starts again.
Sorry. I had some notes, but trying to pull it together here. So yeah, I don't know. That has not been the
experience. There's thousands of social media posts on RTD's Facebook, Twitter. There's Reddit. Google
has a lot of comments, thousands of comments of people who have given up over the last few months
due to waiting or having transit take a light rail for two hours, three hours, when it should have only taken
half an hour or an hour.
Again, there's a big disconnect between the survey and what happened. So what I want to say is please,
that cannot happen again when the coping panel happens, the project starts again.
And again, this was during free fare. And so really quickly, this is the impact that might be having. So light
rail boardings, according to RTD, were 20 million boardings 2022. So I divided that number by 365. That
equals 57,000 rail boardings a day.
Let's just say 1,000 riders have been impacted by what's been happening. And let's just say that-- per
day. And let's just say that-- sorry-- let's just say that 10% of those people, that's 5,000 riders that are
affected by this for a day. And for Uber rides, let's say $30 per Uber ride. That's $150,000 of unplanned
transit expenses for RTD riders.
And then lastly, yeah, it's just, we're missing our appointments, medical appointments, missed birthday
parties. Evictions are on the rise. People are paycheck to paycheck. You spend a couple of Ubers when
this is happening. You can't cancel rides. And you might get evicted.
So yeah, that's basically it. Yeah, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Solorzano, if you could just-PAOLO SOLORZANO: Yeah, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. I do now have a list of six speakers, I think, from Greater Denver
Transit. As I mentioned before, we have public comment now and we also are having a public hearing on

our budget and we'll have public comment again. So I'll go through and you can tell me if you want to go
ahead and speak now or would prefer to wait.
Mr. Flattum, go ahead. Thanks. Please state your name and then go.
JAMES FLATTUM: Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum, Greater Denver Transit.
Beautiful. Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm from Greater Denver Transit. My
comments tonight are going to talk about transparency in terms of head counts at RTD.
So one of the most important challenges that RTD faces is restoring frequencies of buses and light rail,
commuter rail trains. One of the challenges that we've had is that operators, the number of operators that
RTD has today are insufficient to operate the service that RTD had pre-pandemic. The operator shortage
precedes the challenges of the pandemic. But one of the areas that we do not currently have data that
isn't reported on is maintenance.
As far as we can tell, there is no report. There is no resource we can go to really understand to what
extent RTD has the level of maintenance workers that are needed to maintain the fleets and operate a
safe operation. So one of the things that we would call upon RTD to do, for the sake of transparency and
for the Board's edification, is to publish a updated version of its current headcount data that is currently
included in the Board briefings.
It would be great if it could be simplified. Right now, in order to calculate the year-over-year increase in
headcount, you have to pull two different reports at once. You need to refer to multiple different pages,
add up full-time versus part-time. Would really encourage streamlining of that so we could see very
clearly bus operators, light rail operators, frontline workers, maintenance workers, so we can clearly
understand what the challenges are that RTD faces in restoring service, and so that the Board and the
media, the general public can advocate for solutions according to those challenges.
So thank you very much. That concludes my comments for this evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. Next we have Mr. Richard Bamber. Mr. Bamber, please
state your name and go ahead.
RICHARD BAMBER: Thank you, Chair. My name is Richard Bamber with Greater Denver Transit. So
tonight I stand before a Board that the public, the general public elected to provide policymaking and
exercise general oversight of the agency.
We are also being asked to comment on a budget that was put on the website. This is what the public
got, 21 pages here. What we know from the agenda packet is there is an updated version from
November, 37 pages, which we had to cut out of the agenda packet. Biggest difference from us, you'd
probably get it, is $150 million for light rail in the downtown loop.
There's no other explanation to this. $150 million is 10%, 15% of the agency's budget. It's not an
insignificant sum. So we dug in and found out what happened.
In November last year, RTD maintenance of way crews in downtown at 19th and Stout discovered a
piece of track. By RTD's own words, risk assessment is high, catastrophic, and probable without
mitigation. Rail is in unacceptable condition. Corrective action required. Recommend a three-mile an hour

slow zone in the area till the rail is repaired. That risk assessment got the PUC involved and RTD has
been having to submit corrective action plans on this.
Now before anyone gets really worried, the piece of track got repaired in an emergency schedule about a
couple of weeks later. So don't rush out and think we've got a major thing tonight at that section of track.
That said, this was over a year ago. We see a capital project. The only thing we have is something that
was knocked up on PowerPoint. And then there's another sheet that basically gives us a rough idea of the
bits of rail in downtown RTD is probably going to replace or do something to for your $150 million.
My point is is there should be a capital project spun up by now. We should be able to see the details,
exactly what we're getting for the money. OK? It raises questions.
Also in the cap, there was an admittance that an asset breakdown structure hadn't properly been
established. That, in English, means cataloging your assets and making sure you know what you actually
have. OK?
So tonight we raise a few questions on the transparency. Why was the Board not appraised back in
November that this was going on? This is expensive stuff. And the question I have as well is, if the Board
isn't told, how are they going to exercise the oversight that we, the general public, elected them to do?
Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Keith Brooks, you are up. Please state your name and you
may proceed.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello. I am Keith Brooks, also from Greater Denver Transit. I would like to speak on the
public meetings, public consultations for service changes. Currently they are a bit of a joke, because
when they happen, the schedule has not been finalized yet. So for those people who do show up, they
have nothing to comment on and they cannot receive any answers.
And given that it seems the hourly survival bus is going to remain RTD's bread and butter for the
foreseeable future, three minutes here or there can miss a connection that can completely derail your
commute, or really anything. You lose hours of your life daily if you miss a connection for a bus that even
if it's scheduled to come an hour later, may not show up.
It is critical that the consultation takes place after the schedule is public. And the general public, you do
occasionally see signs on buses, but they need to be made very aware when these consultations are
happening, what exactly is changing, and need to be far more involved. Because right now, it's just a
rubber stamp. It's a checkbox and few people are being allowed to give meaningful input on something
that can truly either change or ruin their life. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Brooks. And as I said before, we don't respond directly
to these, but I think some of these questions at least will be answered at some point later in the evening.
Stavros Roditis. Did I say that right?
STAVROS RODITIS: You did, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead and state your name and you may proceed. Thank you.

STAVROS RODITIS: Thank you. My name is Stavros Roditis. I'm with Greater Denver Transit. The
bipartisan infrastructure law and the Inflation Reduction Act both passed at this point two years ago. We
want to ask, what grant funds has RTD pursued? Have they won any grant money from any of these
funds? And do you guys have any staff working towards obtaining any funds from these grants? Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Brett "Palieri."
BRETT PAGLIARI: Close. Thank you. My name is Brett Pagliari. I'll keep this quick and concise. The
budget proposal presented today lacks detail compared to our sister agencies, such as Sound Transit
and WMATA. These agencies give more detail specifically with capital projects. Capital projects are
broken down with their own pages itemized and given with much, much more detail.
I think that RTD and the Board and the public would all benefit by having this detail included in future
budgets that they vote on. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Danny Hunter.
DANNY HUNTER: You already said my name, but I'm Danny Hunter, here with Greater Denver Transit. I
have no additional specific comment, other than that I stand with the budget and transparency concerns
expressed by my fellow members. That's all I have for you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. We appreciate that. Is there anyone else, Mr. Kroll? No?
JACK KROLL: No, there is not. And we did not receive any additional public comment emailed to us in
advance of the meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. With no other participants in the queue, we will close public participation at
this time.
We are at item 7 on the agenda, external entities reports. This month we have three external entity
reports. The first report we have is from the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC.
Ms. Julie Jennings, please start when you are ready.
JULIE JENNINGS: Thank you. I'm Julie Jennings and I have a brief summary of the APAC November 14
meeting.
Updates of QRyde software implementation, the Route Match replacement. RTD launched their new
paratransit scheduling software QRyde on September 23 and switched back to Route Match on October
7. There were significant on-time performance issues. The plan going forward is RTD will test the
improved QRyde during the weekends and develop an interface between Route Match and QRyde to
easily pass data back and forth. This will allow RTD to launch QRyde on Friday night, test on Saturday,
and switch back to Route Match for the week. Working on a Saturday and being able to swap back and
forth will decrease customer impacts during testing.
Suggestions to improve Access-a-Ride. In September, APAC members provided suggestions for Accessa-Ride improvements, and during the next year, APAC agendas will include those items for further
discussion.

During the November meeting, the following areas of improvement were discussed. Access-on-demand
WAV, wheelchair accessible vehicle drivers, are not always correctly identified on the app, so that the
name on the app is not necessarily the driver that shows up. This was an initial challenge when initiating
new drivers to access-on-demand vendors and it has been resolved. Now WAV drivers are properly
uploaded by access-on-demand providers and should no longer be an issue. An APAC member
corroborated that it hasn't been an issue for months, several months, a few months.
Understanding what occurs when a pickup is late. An Access-a-Ride Call Center staff member provided
us with background on dispatch and the process for when a trip is late. Some capacity background.
10,400 Access-a-Ride trips are scheduled in a week. Peak days are Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, 7:00 to 9:00 AM and 2:00 to 4:00 PM. Dispatch has 15 staff and is staffed 24/7, 365 days a
year.
The responsibilities of dispatch include moving a trip to another driver if a vehicle breaks down, finding a
driver for trips where the driver cannot be there or is too delayed. They managed emergencies,
processed will call requests and no shows, just to name a few.
And things to know about late trips. A customer can cancel without a service abuse if there is reliable data
that the vehicle will not arrive within the pickup window. It is best to call dispatch to confirm. A customer
can reschedule a trip instead of cancel. If a trip is late, Dispatch's goal is to find a replacement, but it can
be difficult during peak times.
And that concludes my summary. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Jennings. The second report is from the Advisory
Committee for People with Disabilities. Welcome, Mr. Earl Lee. Please begin.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Madam Chair. The ACPD portion of the meeting began with public comment with
someone who is in favor of renaming Civic Center Station to honor Wade Blank, who was instrumental in
the ADA effort and getting individuals with disabilities accessibility to transit.
Stuart Summers, RTD Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, stated that RTD policy is currently
to name stations after geographic locations, cross streets and roads. Stuart stated that if the city of
Denver were to proceed with its plan to potentially rename Civic Center Station in honor of Mr. Blank,
RTD would happily work in concert with the City and County of Denver. Additionally, Stuart stated that if
this were to move forward, it would likely that a working group or committee would be formed to determine
the next best steps.
The next subject we discussed was the light rail station elevator outages. Dave Jensen, the Assistant
General Manager of Rail Operations, spoke to efforts underway to attempt to minimize the elevator
downtime and ensure access. Dave gave an overview of the current process in place for notifying
customers of elevator outages, as well as efforts that can be undertaken, such as improvement of audio
announcements, service alerts, and other methods to communicate elevator outages.
RTD customer safety. Earl Lee, the chair of the ACPD, brought the issue of RTD customer safety at
transit stops on board vehicles to the forefront. He has heard from potential riders a fear for their personal
safety. Also, in accessibility to ride RTD services either due to timing, with one-hour service delays or
simply no service in their areas. It was decided to postpone any discussion, any further discussion, since
there was no one at this meeting that could represent the RTD Transit Police.

There was another discussion that was brought up that Paul Hamilton, the Director of Paratransit
Services, was able to discuss Access-a-Ride vehicles in support of access-on-demand. There have been
some issues or questions whether the access-on-demand vehicles are part of the Access-a-Ride services
and if that has any effect on people who are waiting for an Access-a-Ride if sources are being pulled to fill
these access-on-demand services. And we were told that that is not the case.
Finally, Gabe Christie announced that we have lost two members of the committee and that we have
gained one new member. We anticipate having two more in the month of December. And at that point, we
adjourned the meeting.
And my report is over. Thank you for your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Lee. Our final report is from the Citizens Advisory
Committee. And I believe this is your last report, Matt Applebaum. And I think I speak for the whole Board
and staff in saying, thanks for your service. Are you going off the committee or just not co-chairing? I think
you're muted.
MATT APPELBAUM: Unmute myself. No, as far as I know, I still have another year and a half left on the
committee, which I'm actually excited about. But thanks for those kind words.
Anyway, this is our report on our meeting of November 9, a couple of weeks ago. We had almost
everybody on the committee attend. It was a virtual meeting.
We did a few things. The first, the main item on the agenda was a financial overview. We're trying to get
everybody on the committee up to speed on RTD's finances. So we had a relatively short presentation by
Doug and Brenden of your team and then a really good discussion, lots of questions about finances.
We expect that we will hold additional meetings next year on the broad topic of finance for RTD, given
that, of course, it's a topic the Board is working on quite a bit. And we assume it will eventually or
potentially lead to some sort of ballot issue. And I'll speak more about that in a moment.
The second item on our agenda was a legislative update presented by Michael Davies. Again, we had a
good conversation. Talked about Zero Fare for Better Air program and we talked about the Zero Fare for
Youth. And in fact, we know that letters of support for the Zero Fare for Youth have been sent in. And the
CAC does expect that we will also try to create a letter of support when we meet next time.
Michael also talked to us a little bit about concerns about operator safety and current state law. And that's
definitely an issue that I think the CAC would like to engage in as well and perhaps send in some sort of
appropriate letter.
And we noted, as we have several times, that members of the CAC would be quite happy supporting you
on the Board and RTD in general, as we can, at the state legislature. So call on us if we can be of any
help.
And the third item on our agenda was, in fact, about our work plan. Jack Kroll attended our meeting,
which is great when he does that. And he has been talking about the need to create a work plan for the
CAC, something we really haven't had in the past. And one of those items that almost certainly will be on
a work plan is, of course, around finances and revenue and revenue diversification, which is why we
started with a conversation about finances and expect to have more conversations later. Again, I think the
CAC can be helpful in this by making suggestions and recommendations to the Board over the next year.

And Jack has noted to us that you on the Board are creating committee work plans. And when those are
done, then we would expect that the CAC can follow with a work plan for us, which would be really
exciting and really helpful for the Board going through 2024.
And finally, as you have noted, this is my last go round as a co-chair of the CAC. We rotate those around,
as we should. I've probably served a little longer than I should have, due to various things going on at the
CAC. But I am delighted to note that Bryn Grunwald of the CAC has stepped up to be the new co-chair.
And she will serve along with the continuing co-chair, John Fusa. And I think they're going to be great for
2024.
I think the CAC with them leading us and also with Jack on board and having a work plan, I think we will
be able to be a lot more focused and get a lot more work done and I hope be a lot more assistance to the
Board. We, like you, do not have a meeting in December, but we'll be back with our meeting in January.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Applebaum. And again, thanks for all your help. I think the work
you're doing, working on the finances and the potential finances is really helpful and we look forward to
working with you on that.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank. We look forward to working with all of you. Thanks so much. Have a great
holiday season.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Sorry. All right. Our first report, committee report, is the Audit Committee.
Committee Chair Dishell, do you have a report?
BOBBY DISHELL: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Bobby Dishell. I chair the Audit
Committee.
The internal Audit Committee met on October the 25th. There were some exciting things for Greater
Denver Transit and Audit. On October 25, 2023, we had a report issued which expressly reviewed three
internal audit reports.
Just to take a step back, as early as 2021, the audit function used to report directly to the CEO. And this
Board took the time to review internal audit best practices, as well as evaluate where Audit should report
to, rechartered the Internal Audit Committee in 2022. The Audit Committee and this Board retained
RubinBrown to serve as the Chief Audit Executive to report directly to the Board. And we authorized our
first scope of audit work for internal audit.
On November 6, we met. And this is the first year that the new Internal Audit Committee has been able to
do its work. We want to thank staff and management for their cooperation for viewing audit as a tool to
improve.
The first three reports were based on Oracle information technology general controls review, the
procurement audit, and the employee training review. The next three items that will be audited are the
district fleet revenue vehicles review, district fleet non-revenue vehicles review, and the public safety and
security review.
I'll briefly review the three audits and internal audit reports that we received, as is best practice for the
entire Board to be briefed on what occurred during audit. I do want to note that terms like unsatisfactory,
satisfactory, or needs improvement, or high risk, moderate risk, or low, or process improvement are terms

of art and those definitions are in the appendices to the internal audit report and would highly encourage
everyone to review those and not necessarily take them as either my own or the Board's own or the audit
executive's own subjective definition. These are defined terms.
On the ITGC, it received a rating of unsatisfactory, with five observations high and six observations
moderate. For procurement, it received a rating of satisfactory with six in low, or process improvement. I
believe that is one in-- can't read my own handwriting. And for training, this received a rating of needs
improvement, with one high, nine moderate, one process improvement based.
The Audit Committee will next meet on December 20 at 2:00 PM. And after that, we will meet in February
of 2024.
That concludes-- for those who are interested in the rest of the 2024 audit plan, I would encourage you to
review packet page 24 from the Audit Committee. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Dishell.
Committee Chair Tisdale, for the Finance and Planning Committee, do you have a report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Finance-- excuse me-- and Planning
Committee met, as reflected in the minutes, and the principal conclusion of that work was the
presentation of the 2024 budget, which we will be discussing shortly following our public hearing on
same. Thank you. And the committee will not be meeting in December.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee. Committee Chair Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. My name is Kate Williams and I have had the pleasure to be
chairing this committee for the last year.
We met on November 15. We didn't have any external reports. We had two actions, both of which we
moved forward to this meeting. The first one was the paratransit vehicle procurement and the second one
was the service changes for January of 2024.
We also had a really great Human Services update from our Chief People Officer, Ms. Polege. And we
enjoyed that enough that we asked that it be shared with all of the Board members who were not
necessarily in attendance that night. So I would like to thank her again for that work.
And we, again, will not meet in December. The next meeting of that committee will be in January of 2024.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. The Performance Committee report, Committee Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Performance Committee met on November 13, 2023,
and we convened in executive session in consideration of personnel matters regarding the General
Manager and CEO's performance self-appraisal, comments from the Board Directors regarding her
performance, and to discuss the General Manager and CEO's proposed 2024 performance goals.
The majority of the Board was in attendance. And I just would like to thank the Board and our General
Manager and CEO for engaging that evening in that discussion. Directors have subsequently submitted
their General Manager and CEO performance evaluation forms following this meeting. And the

Performance Committee will meet again on December 4 at 8:30 AM to discuss and approve the General
Manager and CEO's performance appraisal and to consider at least one potential amendment to the
General Manager and CEO's employment agreement.
Later on that same day, on Monday, December 4 at 5:30 PM, there will be a special Board meeting for
the entire Board to convene to consider and approve any recommended actions resulting from the
Performance Committee meeting that morning. All Directors are encouraged to attend this if at all
possible and to do so in person, if possible. Please stay tuned for any adjustments to the agenda with
respect to attendance, amendments, and other adjustments thereof.
Thank you very much. That concludes my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Davidson. Are there any questions for any of those committee
chairs? Seeing none, we'll move to approval of Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board
and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors
for the minutes to be approved this evening?
OK. Seeing none, unless there is objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I please
have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings, October 24, 2023 Board meeting,
November 6, 2023 Audit Committee, November 13, 2023 Performance Committee, November 14, 2023
Operations and Safety Committee, November 15, 2023, Finance and Planning Committee, November 16,
2023, Executive Committee? Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Williams as the movant and Director Bouquet as the second. Is
there any discussion on this motion? I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action?
All right. Seeing none, we have 15 yes votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions, so the motion passes.
The next is the Chair's report. What? Oh, did he step out? OK. And one absence, which is Director
Rosenthal. I assume he will be back.
The next item is the Chair's report and I am going to save that for other matters and do a little end-of-year
wrap-up at that point. So we will move on to General Manager Johnson's report. Sorry to spring that on
you by skipping mine. But if you're ready.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening to all of you Board
members and to all that are assembled, both virtually and here in the RTD boardroom. I am Debra
Johnson, RTD's General Manager and CEO.
This evening I will share with you the following information centered around priorities-- sorry about that.
Regarding community value, I will share an overview of meetings and events in which I have engaged or
soon will engage, including a discussion panel convened by the local office of global consulting firm
Slalom, a meeting convened by Governor Polis to discuss the future of transit and rail in the state of
Colorado, a meeting with representatives for the Alliance for Transportation Transformation, including
individuals from the Colorado Public Interest Research Group, as well as Denver Streets Partnership, a
number of WTS, being Women's Transportation Seminar International meetings and events that took

place this month, and the Front Range Passenger Rail Board of Directors annual retreat. I will also give a
brief status update regarding the facilities and fleet transition planning effort currently underway.
Regarding customer excellence, I will share information about the launch of RTD's new website earlier
this month. And speaking to employee ownership, I will touch on RTD's participation in the Eno/MAX
program.
Regarding community value, on Wednesday, November 1, I was invited to participate in the Empowher-that's E-M-P-O-W-H-E-R-- discussion series hosted by the global business and technology consulting firm
Slalom. The panel discussion offered an opportunity for each participant to share experiences as a
woman and a leader in the workplace, inspire others, and spark discussion. I was joined by executive
leaders from Slalom, Delta Dental, and United Launch Alliance and the panelists discussed a wide range
of topics, such as leadership experience, the importance of equal pay for equal work, mentorship
programs, workplace challenges, and diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging.
On Thursday, November 2, I was invited to participate in a roundtable discussion and working group
session convened by Governor Polis's office entitled, Working on the Future of Transit and Rail
Development in Colorado. Members of the Governor's Administration, Chair Guissinger, Director
Davidson, state legislators, representatives from the Colorado Department of Transportation, the Front
Range Passenger Rail District, amongst others, participated in this facilitated discussion regarding
options for future development of rail corridors to serve the transit needs of Coloradans for decades to
come.
On November 10, on Friday, I, along with Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, Manager of Talent
Acquisition, Don Roniak met with Danny Katz and Molly McKinley representing COPIRG and Denver
Streets Partnership, respectively, to engage in a discussion and share information regarding the agency's
recruitment and retention efforts.
November proved to be a busy month for WTS International. WTS, an organization with which I have
engaged for the majority of my career in the transit space, is dedicated to creating a more diverse,
inclusive, and equitable transportation industry through the global advancement of women. And I also
serve on the international board.
On Tuesday, November 7, I participated in a meeting of the steering committee focused on matters of
diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. On Thursday, November 9, I participated in the WTS
International Governance meeting. And finally, during the week beginning Monday, November 13, the
WTS chapter leadership development seminar was held in Southern California, though I participated
remotely in several sessions. This is an annual program focusing on developing chapter level volunteer
talent. WTS chapter participants do deep dives into WTS organizational processes, creating local and
grassroot goals for the support of the mission and vision of the association, building personal
relationships with fellow leaders from across North America, and strengthening the skills necessary to
manage with confidence, purpose, and integrity.
Later this week, on Thursday, November 30 and December 1, I will be participating in the Front Range
Passenger Rail Board of Directors annual retreat, which will be held right here at the Oxford Hotel. As a
gentle reminder, I serve on that board as an ex-officio member representing the Regional Transportation
District.

As was shared with the Board recently via the monthly Board briefing documents for November, 2023,
and can be found on page 82, staff continues to engage with consulting firm WSP regarding the
development of a holistic low and no emission facilities and fleet transition plan. Work got underway in
September following the execution of the contract on August 24, 2023.
On October 17, a cross-functional working group comprised of employees representing numerous
disciplines, as well as consultants, was convened to provide technical support and expertise to the
project, along with the steering team formed to guide the project. The consultants have presented a draft
project management plan that was presented to staff that outlined several core deliverables. The plan is
currently under review.
The project team has commenced work regarding fleet modeling, which will provide an overall picture of
considerations that will need to be taken into account with respect to different fleet technologies. This
effort will also inform facility and utility needs. The model considers different scenarios and factors,
including local climate and weather patterns, RTD-specific service and scheduling needs and
requirements, advertised and expected battery life for the option of battery electric buses, among other
elements. Additional updates will be shared with the Board as this work progresses. I do want to share
publicly that the date, if we transition plan, will be December 15, 2024.
Regarding customer excellence, completing a month long-- well, months, plural-- long redesign project
that began earlier this year, RTD launched a new website that features improved navigation features,
enhanced online accessibility, and updates to existing content. All content on the website is currently
available in English, Spanish, and Chinese. And additional language support for the Denver Metro area's
next most widely used languages, including Vietnamese and Russian, will roll out in quarter one of 2024.
RTD's trip planner application is also available in English, Spanish, Chinese, with Vietnamese and
Russian currently in beta testing. Using current web content accessibility guidelines, the website also
incorporates a third-party tool called AccessiBe to provide a higher level of accessibility support. For
example, AccessiBe allows users to optimize content for screen readers, magnify and scale text, and
remove flashing images for individuals with certain photo sensitivities, among dozens of other related
features.
The new website also includes updated photography, refreshed content, and better adaptability for mobile
devices, which account for approximately 80% of RTD's overall web traffic. The redesign was informed by
feedback from members of this Board of Directors, employees, the Citizens Advisory Committee, the
Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, customers, stakeholders, and community members.
And I do want to note that as we go through this process, we're still accepting feedback, because we're
bound to find something additional as we go forward. So I just want to ensure that everybody is cognizant
of that.
Speaking now to employee ownership, on Thursday, October 26, I traveled to Dallas, Texas to support
the 2023 graduating class of the Eno/MAX program, also to engage with participants and share my
thoughts and insights as to the value of professional development and careers in the public transit space.
The program, led by the Eno Center for Transportation Group's high potential and high performing transit
agency employees from all organizational disciplines, including Operations, Finance, Planning,
Administration, Engineering, and more, many of whom have participated in internal management
development and training programs.

The participating agencies include RTD, LA, Metro, which is the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, Dallas Area Rapid Transit Authority, more commonly known as DART, the
Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, or MARTA, Valley Metro in Phoenix, Sound Transit in
Seattle, and then the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, or WMATA, the Charlotte Area
Transit System, also known as CATS, and Pittsburgh Regional Transit, or PRT were amongst those
participants.
This year, RTD was paired with participants from PRT, WMATA, and DART, and the cohort visited each
of these four agencies to engage with peers, learn how things are done in those respective transit
agencies representing other areas of the country, [AUDIO OUT] practices and develop strategies to
enhance their own agencies. I extend my congratulations to 2023 RTD Eno/MAX graduates.
As this is the last regularly scheduled Board meeting of 2023, this time of year lends itself to reflect upon
the successes, opportunities, and challenges of the past 11 months. At RTD, the public service we
collectively provide makes a meaningful difference in the lives of our customers and the communities we
serve. I extend my thanks to all agency employees for the monumental accomplishments over the course
of the year and to the Board for its support and partnership and leadership.
And with that, Madam Chair, I conclude my report and welcome questions, should there be any. Thank
you very kindly for the opportunity to share that information with all of you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. Are there any questions or comments? OK,
seeing none, it's time for the public hearing for the 2024 proposed budget.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to order the public hearing on the RTD proposed budget for
the year 2024. In accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes, notice of the
public hearing was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. The
notice was published in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this meeting and on the RTD
website. This public hearing will be conducted under the process that the Board uses for its regular public
comment section.
The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of this public hearing and
presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be emailed
to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com for distribution to the Board. The 2024 proposed
budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board and public to review.
Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your names and you will have up to three minutes to
provide comments. Is anybody raised their hand to speak? Oh, I see some hands going up now. Do you
have anyone-- we have the list here from GDT.
JACK KROLL: We don't have any online, but apparently we have some folks here. I can run and grab
their information while the first speaker goes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think I have the information here. I'll start at the beginning, because I'm not sure
which of you are speaking. Mr. Flattum, are you speaking?
JAMES FLATTUM: Yes, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Please state your name and you can begin.

JAMES FLATTUM: Certainly. Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum with Greater Denver
Transit. The item that I'd like to raise on the budget is what I perceive as a lack of a formal asset
management plan. Something that I've become accustomed to seeing from budgets of other transit
agencies, like Sound Transit, like WMATA, is that there will be a detailed breakout with itemized projects
that are being listed with detail about what infrastructure adjustments they are, how much they cost, what
the purpose of the projects are. And that doesn't seem to be included in this budget.
The closest thing that we can see, if you were looking at the November 14 version of the budget,
Attachment B highlights a series of projects, one very large one in particular-- I'd probably use it as an
example. The $150 million allocated or proposed to be allocated for the downtown light rail loop
replacement project is definitely something of keen interest to our group, especially with the context we've
seen with issues raised by the PUC with rail quality and aging infrastructure challenges on that section of
the light rail network.
I think the key concern from our side is that if we do not have details on previous projects being closed
out, it leaves doubt or concern that previous repairs might not have been successful, that previous repair
projects might have failed. It's our experience that over the last several years, the central loop of
downtown has been taken out of service multiple times for repairs at different intersections. Certainly
necessary work.
But without the context and without kind of the closeout of whether or not those projects were successful,
whether those projects delivered the reliability and met the project requirements, we just don't have really
the details to feel confident saying that the $150 million is either well spent or this is coming out of a asset
management program that we're able to comment on, because we just don't have detail on it.
So we just raise concern around that and express a preference for a formal asset management plan to be
included in future budgets. That concludes my remark. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. Mr. Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Thank you, Chair. It's Richard Bamber.
I've been looking at Attachment C, which is the capital carryover of the November version of the budget.
There's a couple of things here that kind of keep coming up. The hoist district shops. Thought it might
have happened by now. Not sure. Blank out screens. Welton Street. I understand this is a very important
project that would aim to reduce vehicle accidents between vehicles and our light rail trains on that
corridor. There's Vision Zero and communications about that one.
Ticket vending machines. I understand that our ticket vending machines, from a report, are not PCI DSS
compliant. That is a standard for protecting personal data and obviously credit card data. The ticket
machine vendor, Scheidt and Bachmann, has come up with a fix. We know that's on the market. And the
question is, I can't tell from this budget, has that project been done? Is it going to be done? When's it
going to be done? What's going on with that? And of course, that's quite a concern about personal data
there.
Looking around. North Metro corridor, $57 million still is a punch list. Got a punch list of those little sort of
snags and things. A trash tank didn't get installed. For it to be $57 million, that's something that's-- why
we've holding that amount of cash from what was a major multimillion dollar capital project a couple of
years ago.

So the question I have is, you guys, the Board is faced to approve this 37-page document tonight. It's
over $1 billion. My tax return some years is longer than this, if I've worked in a few different states on
various projects.
So you could vote no. You could do that. We've got to be-- I kind of feel for you, the job you're being
asked to do tonight and pass this.
The other question is, think about, could you pass it with conditions? Could you get some oversight?
Could we get some monthly reports? Because right now, other transit agencies give you hundreds of
pages and every line item is backed up. This is backed up by nothing.
So I would say that regardless of how this budget passes tonight, that is one major action item that the
agency needs to focus on next year. We don't want to be here in the same position with just 37 pages
when I speak next year.
I'd like to end to say that thank you very much for all you guys do. We clearly do not agree on everything.
But each and every one of you, clearly you guys work hard and to try and further the cause of transit and
making RTD the best agency it possibly can be.
I wish you a very safe and happy holiday season. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Bamber. Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Thank you, Chair. It's Keith again. Looking through the November version of the
budget, I noticed an absence of any line item to do with light rail vehicle replacement, which has
appeared in previous year's budget, though, as I believe, if I recall correctly, not a particularly large
amount.
Going forward, a lot of the current vehicles, the older ones, are older than me. They're older than a lot of
people in this room. They are 30 years old, which for a train is antique. There's a lot of federal money
floating around. And a lot of our peer cities, Cleveland, St. Louis, San Diego , are going after that to
replace light rail vehicles, Siemens SD series, that are just like the ones we operate. We wouldn't have to
design a vehicle. We wouldn't have to do a big bidding process. We can just order newer models.
And so I hope, while the federal money lasts, when we're here again next year, there could be, if not a big
item, at least a line item for investigating, starting to replace some of these older vehicles with something
from this century. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Brooks. Mr. Roditis.
STAVROS RODITIS: Hello. The security staff has done an excellent job. I use the commuter rail daily and
it's-- I always feel safe on it. And thank you again for the job that you guys do.
However they're oftentimes put in a position where they do not have the right tools for a given interaction.
As an agency, we need a multi-layered approach. Cities and transit agencies have recognized this and
have hired staff that have the tools to really interact in other ways and other layers. The city of Denver, for
example, has the STAR program. We're looking at the budget and it and it seems like there's only one
line item for one layered approach and we kind of want to ask, has RTD looked into other things?
Thank you and happy holidays.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And happy holidays to you as well. Mr. Pagliari. No? Great. And Mr.
Hunter.
DANNY HUNTER: [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Good. Anybody else in the queue or online, Mr. Kroll? No. With no other
participants in the queue, we will close the public hearing for the 2024 proposed budget and move to the
approval of the 2024 budget and questions and discussion with the Board.
So the item is approval of the 2024 budget. For the Board of Directors to adopt the resolution number-- I
don't have a number here-- series of 2023 for the adoption of the 2024 budget. Should I have a resolution
number, Mr. Kroll? No. OK. Resolution number blank, series of 2023, for the 2024 budget appropriation
and resolution number blank, series of 2023, for the appropriation of 2024 previously appropriated capital.
Do we have a motion to approve-DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --the 2024 budget? Just, I hear Director Tisdale-KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --as the movant and Director Williams as the second.
Given the importance of the budget to RTD and the Board's obligations, staff is prepared tonight to
answer questions Directors may have. As such, I would now like to encourage my colleagues to raise any
outstanding questions they may have before a vote is held on the 2024 budget.
I would also note that staff has tried to meet the Board's needs for discussion of these items. Along the
way, there have been a lot of questions. There were a number of questions at the Finance and Planning
Committee, a number of questions that have been answered. Our CFO, Mr. MacLeod, made himself
available to Board members to meet.
All of that to say, there's been a lot of these questions that have come up. I think some of these questions
will come up again. And I encourage the Board to raise questions tonight. I think it's good for our
constituents and our guests and everyone and all of us to hear the answers.
Director Ruscha, you are on.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. This is Director Ruscha. I apologize if I'm out of order, so
I might need the assistance of a parliamentarian. But I wanted to ask if we could divide the question? It
looks like we have three resolutions before us that will be passed together.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. What's your request? You want to divide the three to be voted on separately?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And I will just disclose, I don't have a motion that I'm considering at this
moment. But given the task before us and the comments we just heard, I would just like us to consider-well, I would ask that we divide the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So you're making a motion to divide the question?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a second? I'm sorry?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Pardon me. I'm a little rusty on my Robert's Rules. I don't know if that's debatable.
Perhaps Mr. Kroll-LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks like we're getting a ruling here. Ms. Snyder and Mr. Kroll are-JOYANN RUSCHA: Although I wouldn't be-- I wouldn't mind if we voted on it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just think if a member asks, then we divide.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I don't believe we have a second, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Not yet. We're waiting to see if it needs a second and all of that.
IAN HARWICK: I'm happy to second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're happy to second, did you say?
IAN HARWICK: Oh, good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Let's wait just a minute and let Ms. Snyder look at the rules. We do have a
person volunteering to second. Let's give it a second.
JACK KROLL: So this would require a second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Do we have a second?
IAN HARWICK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I hear the movant is Director Ruscha, the second is Director Harwick on a
motion to divide the question into three questions.
JACK KROLL: So a point of order on this. This is now not debatable or amendable. So you got to
basically just vote right now if you want to divide these into three or leave them intact as one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And should our movant or our second be able to explain why?
JACK KROLL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. We have a-- OK. We have a motion to divide this question into three.
All in favor?
IAN HARWICK: Do you want to do roll call?

JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
IAN HARWICK: You want a roll call vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, roll call vote. Let me get back to my roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. But there are one, two, three, four, five, six yes votes. One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine no votes. The motion fails.
Thank you. We will move on. And let me get back to where we are. I believe we have a motion and a
second to adopt the budget with Director Tisdale and Director Williams. So we will move on to discussion.
Director Rosenthal. I'm sorry? Did you have more, Director Ruscha? OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, Mr. MacLeod. Thank you very much
for your work and your team's work on this budget.
Referring to the sales and use tax projections, I guess that was a pretty narrow paragraph there. So
maybe if you could describe a little further the forecast for 2024. It says the lower forecast for 2024
resulted from a slow down in year-over-year growth in actual tax collections during 2023.
So could you help us a little bit more, describe a little bit further what the expectations are for our
revenues and specifically our sales tax revenues? Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. And thank you for the question,
Director Rosenthal.
There's been a lot of discussion over the last few months regarding the sales and use tax forecast. Just to
separate the mid-term financial plan from the actual budget, so we had a lot of discussions about the
impact of TABOR limitations. So the 2024 through 2029 sales and use tax forecast we actually lowered
what CU Leeds School of Business provided to us for the years '25 through '29, because that's when the
TABOR impact would happen.
That does not affect RTD in 2024, so these numbers reflect exactly what was provided by CU Leeds
School of Business. The commentary regarding the reduction in the sales and use tax forecast was
related to the comparison to the March forecast that was provided versus the September forecast. What
RTD has experienced, and many agencies have experienced is a slowdown in the economy, less
spending. We were seeing a pretty upward trend in sales and use tax growth all the way up through April
of 2023, year-over-year. At that point in time, the sales and use tax collections flattened out, so they were
basically flat compared to the prior year.
Using that information, CU Leeds is provided the monthly actual results. And they take that into account
in providing their most recent sales and use tax forecast. So the September, which they provided in
August, said August sales and use tax forecast was slightly lower for the 2024 projection than what was
projected in March of 2023.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for that. And how is inflation
impacting our expenses, particularly in some of the bigger ticket items, things like steel and such for the
rails?
IAN HARWICK: Thank you for the question. So inflation has been a problem. Also, supply chain
constraints have been a problem throughout the industry, as well as all businesses have been facing the
same constraints. Regarding inflation specifically, RTD is fortunate that we have entered many of our
contracts, larger business agreements, contracts for contracted services. As you may know, we outsource
or have third parties provide over 50% of our actual services. So those are our contracted services. We
have contracts that establish the pricing for those, so we are locked in. So we do have some mitigation to
some of those impacts.
However, we have seen across the board, parts, in particular, have been not only increasing in costs
significantly, along with inflation, but there's also supply chain constraints. So I'm not an expert in the
procurement parts buying business, but I know that we've had some challenges there. But we are not in a
position where we are constrained that it would affect operations.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And final question. Thank you. So in terms of capital improvements, could you
describe that line item a little bit more in terms of what the agency will be spending on infrastructure
improvements over the next year? And particularly we heard a bit about the $150 million that will be spent
on that effort as well.
IAN HARWICK: Sure. Thank you. So within the package, there is an attachment B and an attachment C.
The distinguishment between those two attachments is attachment B is new capital requests. So these
are capital requests for expenditures for capital items that were not previously requested for
appropriation. That differs from Schedule-- excuse me, attachment C, which is capital carryforward each
of those items on attachment C were previously approved for appropriation. Those projects have either
not been completed or not started. And the request for that portion of the capital carryforward is to
appropriate that unspent funding again for the upcoming fiscal year.
Regarding the contents of each of those schedules, the large-- well, let me start with, in Colorado, the
requirement is in order to begin a project, the funding has to be appropriated first. So regarding the $150
million downtown rail project, since what we're asking here is for the appropriation just of the funding, not
the project itself, the details of the project, that funding has to be appropriated in order for RTD-- it's
basically set aside, distinguished from the rest of the funding by the Board, to be used only on that project
before RTD can go through the procurement process.
So that project is a large project. And I'd like to ask General Manager Johnson to add to those comments.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the
question.
As Mr. MacLeod indicated, we are seeking an appropriation. We are in the process currently-- when I use
the pronoun we, collectively staff-- to determine the path forward relative to a rail replacement project.
And so at this juncture, we have yet to know the cost because we're working that through.
As the Board is aware, but maybe the public is not, when we bring that project forward, we have to seek
authority for the Board. We are going to actively compete relative to finding a consultant to conduct that

work. And so that will come back before this body when we have specific information. So I wanted to
qualify that intentionally as we go forward.
Sure, there has been some repairs done along our network. The intent we are trying-- that doesn't make
sense what I'm saying-- our intent is to develop a comprehensive program as we go forward so we're not
doing one-offs and piecemeal type of projects. We have been in a place in which we have done that, so
we're trying to formalize the plan. And in doing so, we'll have a comprehensive approach going forward.
And we would come back and apprise accordingly what that cost is. And it would be up to the Board at
that time to grant us authorization or not to proceed with said project.
And we are meeting on a recurring basis with Procurement, with our engineering teams, with Counsel
and things of the like. Because to the question you raised-- and I may be speaking a little out of school
here-- but recognizing that I have been privy to conversations with colleagues around the country,
because during the course of comments we've heard about different agencies, be it WMATA, be it LA
Metro, be it a myriad of these. We have to take into consideration where we are and what we're doing
with our state of good repair.
We do have an asset management plan I have shared on several occasions. We do need to do a better
job of linking our asset management plan in alignment with our budget. And that's what we're working
towards. And then more specifically, as I talk about other transit agencies, there are costs that have
increased due to the fact of having availability to steel. In reference to people doing the work, my
colleague who runs Sound Transit actually shared with me, they're having difficulty finding people to pour
cement. So they actually have gone to bakeries, third parties to look for [INAUDIBLE].
It's on. But when you pour batter, you have to ensure it's done in a similar [INAUDIBLE] to concrete,
because it's very difficult to find the talent to do so. So just adding that in the course of a conversation I
had at the Rail CEO Committee. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Rosenthal? OK. I see Director Davidson. But,
oh, did you go away? Director Dishell, you're up next. You're just taking-- OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate it. Want to provide some commentary because
there was a number of questions and responses that occurred via email. And I think none of this is really
new from most of us, and certainly for me, from Finance and Planning Committee.
I think first and foremost, this Board needs to take ownership of the budget we got. We approved a fiscal
policy last year for the 2023. We just recently approved a fiscal policy that said that the budget was going
to be a summary. And that's on us, right, because we did not provide detail on what a summary was. We
did not provide detail on what a summary meant. And that led to a massive crunch for staff. And I think
from my perspective, the agency wouldn't be in the position it's in, we wouldn't be seeing the changes
we've been seeing over the past couple of years, if there wasn't backup data to each of these different
items.
That said, we're talking about $800 million-ish in OpEx. We're talking about an overall appropriation of
about $2 billion, when you include the carryforwards. And for me, it's hard, when we receive-- for the past
month or so, few weeks, a number of requests have been made that were data based, but we didn't-- but
we got narrative responses.

We haven't seen sort of that alignment of the Transit Asset Management Plan with the budget, which I
know is what we're working on. But we didn't see that line itemed. And so for me, it's we're sort of in the
position of, we can say yes, we can continue to have trust, we can continue to partnership and work
together through that audit process, which we saw and we've had a number of major process
improvements and identify other ways and mechanisms to spend those ad hoc audit hours that we have
approved.
But it also needs to be a both for me. And the budget is just too big. And we have-- it's not, we're not in a
fiscal cliff scenario, like the federal government, right, if we don't approve a budget to 90% of the prior
appropriation that gets to move forward. And we have the ability to have an iterative process. And so for
me, I'm not at the point where I'm ready to approve a budget because we have the ability to still operate.
And I think when you look at our budget year over year, we have massive variances on a percentage
basis between appropriated funds and actual funds. And I think we're making great strides towards
getting there. We don't have the backup yet. Or the Board hasn't seen it. And so for me I, unfortunately,
am a no tonight, because-- or fortunately, depending on where you sit-- because to me, it's just, it's such
a massive amount of funding.
The Board needs to take ownership of the fact that we didn't do our due diligence in having a stronger
fiscal policy that more clearly outlined what we needed from staff. And as a result, that should similarly be
on us, if we're not satisfied with the information that we got, to vote how we need to vote to get that
budget to where it needs to be as opposed to the continuing amending of a budget.
That's my personal thoughts, but just wanted to-- no response needed. It's welcome but certainly not
necessary. I know we've had these discussions previously. I just want to note that this is not necessarily
on staff and the Board shares a lot of responsibility in our dissatisfaction.
So looking forward to amending, hopefully, the fiscal policy to get us where we need to be and working
with those who are interested and working with the audit and the structures we have in place to get the
budget to a place where everyone feels more comfortable. And in seeing that asset management plan
and that tracking, that should have been there, right. Many of us inherited the situation we're in.
And it's going to be great to see it. I think we're just not there tonight. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Dishell. Any response or-- no? OK. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I'd just like to thank Director Dishell for his
comments. Completely agree that this comes down to fiscal policy and this Board did move towards a
more summarized version of the budget. Like Director Dishell, I see it as a valuable effort for us to revisit
that next year and better define what we mean by summarized.
I do want to comment that I will be a yes this evening. I personally am comfortable with the information we
have received from staff over the past two months and am appreciative to the efforts that staff has made
to answer these questions, particularly that there have been challenges from the budget that has been
inherited.
One thing I would like to note that it's one thing to have a lengthy budget and to have all of the details in it.
It's another thing to keep it and to follow it and to not vary from it. And since my time at the agency, and
predating that time, we have had a challenge that I think many of us have noted on the capital

carryforward is just one example of where we have not been properly resourcing and planning our
resources around our projects.
We had more detailed budgets, but we were varying in a number of significant areas. That capital
carryforward, for example, had grown to over half a billion dollars. We have decreased that. I know this
question has come up numerous times. It is not just about the capital carryforward. It is about the budget
in general.
So at the risk of being a broken record, given that we have discussed this in committee and some
questions, Ms. Johnson, I would like to just address you and offer the opportunity for you to comment and
speak about changes to the budget process itself, both with respect to the asset management plan as
well as how we are driving our priorities.
Director Dishell, you hit the nail on the head a moment ago when you mentioned the amending of the
budget. That is also a habit that this Board and agency has been in for many years, of amending the
budget. I believe we are making strides to improving upon that. But as we consider a vote tonight and as
we dialogue with the public in this hearing, I'd like to open the floor to Ms. Johnson to comment to the
fundamental and high level changes that we are making to the budget process itself to avoid
amendments, avoid missing the resource plans, and also, , again to just reiterate the work that's
happening to align our asset management plan with this budget. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Thank you, Director Davidson, for the question and the opportunity to
offer some comments.
So I greatly appreciate the discussion that we have. It may come to no surprise to Board members that I
have been talking about the budget and how we could collectively do better, recognizing that there has
been certain processes and policies to which we were adhering and there are statutory requirements in
which we have met but haven't leveraged. Specifically as we talk about our Transit Asset Management
Plan or what we refer to as a TAM, we do have a TAM.
Where there is a disconnect is that we would look at various elements and there were disparate tracking
systems relative to our data sets. And somebody may have had a wish list to do something. And it wasn't
done in a cohesive manner. And what we are doing now going forward, bringing all players into the fold.
We have to ensure that we have an understanding, an agency-wide, about the interdependencies when
you put a project forward. Because when we talk about a capital carryforward, if one hasn't spoken with
appropriate departments, that project is not going to come to fruition.
So I'll give a very simplistic example. So say there's a desire to purchase non-revenue vehicles. So when
we talk about non-revenue vehicle purchases-- and it could be for a high railer. And for those that don't
know what a high railer is, that is a vehicle that's used on the track that may assist, as we work on
catenary wires and things of the like. If that's been done in abstentia and no one has coordinated with our
facilities team, Nobody? Has coordinated with facility maintenance, who's going to maintain said vehicle,
where are we going to store said vehicle. And we have had those instances.
So the lack of communication hasn't been there, be it good, bad, or indifferent. And I'm not one to throw
stones, because I own this. And as the team knows, what we have endeavored to do this year, and it gets

better and better, have a collective understanding of what it is that we are going to do. So if a request
comes forward for a budget element, we have to ensure the due diligence has been done by those
interdependent entities. And how are we putting that forward, how are we managing it.
There was a comment during the public comment period. We could go after LRVs. OK, we do have LRVs
that we took delivery of, I believe in like 2015 or 2016. So they're not 30-plus years old. What we opted to
do here at this agency is very analogous to, say, I drive a 1982 Toyota Corolla and there is a 2024
version. But I wanted a 1982 version. So I went back and asked for that to be manufactured in the same
way.
And so as we talk about the different elements, before we can actually procure a vehicle, we have high
blocks. There's level boarding. So there are studies that we're pursuing, planning dollars to determine our
path forward because we can't have a hybrid system. So we have to be intentional and understand, do
we have a project plan in place first? And that's what we're doing.
We are commencing having these discussions around the capital carryforward, now the capital projects.
When we're going after grants, do we have a plan in place? Because oftentimes what we did, there's
money readily available, let's seize the moment. So we have these monies but there was no plan in place.
There was no resource management plan specifically, who's going to shepherd that. Who am I
coordinating with?
And so those are some of the elements at a high level that we are striving for. And quite naturally, if you
are seeking a non-revenue vehicle, what is the replacement cycle in the TAM? Because that's where we
first have to start. As opposed to, it's nice to have something shiny and new, we have to ensure that we
are looking at the benchmark, the useful life as programmed and the conditionality of said asset and
using that to then do a comparison as we go forward.
So that's very simplistic of what we are doing. And as we strive going forward, we do not want to do an
amended budget. We shouldn't be doing an amended budget. We have, again, a one-year budget. We
don't have a multiyear budget, where you usually do an amendment after the first year.
And so that's what we're working on. And the team collectively, we're going to start having budget
discussions and instituting what we're calling a cap walk, walking through capital projects so we know
where they are. Because if we have grant dollars, we need to wave the flag and say, OK, what help do
you need to ensure that this project can come to fruition?
So thank you very much for the opportunity to share those tidbits.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Did you have anything else, Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No further questions. Thank you for commenting on that. And I also, just before
closing, would like to thank members of the public for being here and commenting on the budget. That's
nice to see. We haven't seen that for the past couple years. This is a very important budget. It is the
public's business. So I think those who have taken the time to review that and comment this evening.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. I agree. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm in my fifth year as a Director on this organization. And
I just have to say, the movement that we're taking to do a better budget, a more transparent budget, is
significant. Are we at the state we need to be? No.
Much to echo Director Dishell's comments. I, however, am a yes vote tonight. I feel real good about the
presentations that we have seen over the last couple of months, and maybe even longer than that.
But Doug, or our General Manager, I was prompted with a question as a result of the public testimony.
The large punch list budgets for North Metro and several other lines kind of jump off the page. And I'm
just curious, I don't recall what examples would be appropriate for such large expenditures. So if one of
you would enlighten us and our constituents with a few examples, I think that would be helpful.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. Yes, and I believe it's $57 million that we show on that
line item. Correct. And the reason for that, it's probably a misnomer the way that's phrased. It's money
that's left over from the N Line. And what that money has been set aside for, and it's part of what General
Manager Johnson talked about, going through the cap walk and really looking at that, is funding for,
potential funding maintenance of way facility.
So that money was left over from the actual construction of the project. There are facilities that are
necessary. We're undertaking in the future hopefully a comprehensive look at our facilities, as we're doing
with the fleet transition plan. But that money has been sitting there. And it's high time to take a look at that
and figure that into our strategic plan. So thank you for the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I just thought the example was important to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: Maybe it's a little bit of a labeling question there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: A very good question.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Director Guzman, District C. Would you please
speak to the inclusion of the, I believe it's $15 million contribution to the-- sorry, employee pension plan?
There's two different plans that we have going on. So there's two different amounts that are there.
But I want to make sure that we as a Board understand this, because this was an interesting conversation
you and I had, but also that the public understands why we are putting that money there and the amounts
that we're putting in, the reasons why. Would you please speak to that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you. So RTD employees have two pension plans. There's a pension plan
for the represented employees of the Amalgamated Transit Union. That pension plan was closed to new
employees, for employees that are hired January 1, 2023 and thereafter. That plan is closed. It's 79%
funded. The other plan is the non-represented or salaried employee pension plan. That plan was closed

January 1, 2008 to new employees. New employees in both cases go into a defined contribution as
opposed to a defined benefit pension plan.
Each of those funds-- that fund is, sorry-- the non-represented pension plan is approximately 82% funded.
So both plans are now pretty well funded. However, there is that underfunding. And with each plan being
closed, that means that there's a finite amount of future contributions. So RTD, to be good stewards of
taxpayers' money, certainly doesn't want to overfund it because the rule is is if you put too much money
in, all the pensioners pass away, there's money left in the plan, it does not come back to RTD. So we're
trying to be very strategic, based on advice from both trust counsel, which is separate from employees, as
well as the trust actuary.
The $15 million contribution is a lump sum contribution. Since both plans are closed, previous to them
closing, it was a percentage of wages contribution. But with fewer and fewer employees actually
participating as active employees and contributing to that plan with an RTD match, those contributions
are not sufficient. So we've gone to a lump sum amount based on the actuarial recommendation.
So in the case of the non-represented employees, that being an 82% funded, the actuary recommended
an $11 million contribution. This is a very similar story to what was discussed in 2022 going into 2023.
And I would mention that there's five employee trustees and two RTD Board members serving on that
trust. The actuary in that trust recommended an $11 million contribution to keep it at a certain level of
funding, approximately 80%.
The additional $4 million is being recommended because there are, in the non-represented plan, an
employee, once they retire, can elect to either receive benefits for the remainder of their life or they can
cash out those contributions. So in our experience, it's been between $3 million and $5 million of
cashouts when employees retire.
So in order, with the markets being where they are, same story as last year, the recommendation is to
contribute the additional $4 million to cover the approximate cashout, so investments do not have to be
sold at a loss in order to pay the benefits out to the employees. So that's how we get to the $15 million.
$11 million recommended contribution plus approximately $4 million in anticipated cashouts.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I believe Director Dishell had something to add on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh. Yeah. Director Bobby Dishell. I serve as one of the Board's appointed trustees for
the defined benefit plan as well as the defined contribution plan.
And I just wanted to add a little more color to that and I think it was a discussion we had as well, which is,
being aware that RTD may be facing a TABOR ratchet down effect, and in prioritizing our employees and
prioritizing employee ownership, we want to make sure that those plans were adequately funded in the
event that we might not have that extra $4 million to fund in a future year, where dollars, absent any
change, dollars will be tighter.
And so while we have those one-time monies available, I certainly advocated-- I think it was a welcome
discussion from the employees who were there-- to put a little more money in when we have the ability to
do so, so that they're well taken care of. And it definitely took me a while to get up to speed on, hey, are
we really underfunded?
But the other reality is is the actuary, who-- there's a lot of tests to become an actuary. I don't know if
anyone here is an actuary. But the additional gains on compounding interest from that money makes it so

that over time with interest that accrues, we end up not underfunding it. We end up funding it down to a
relative science.
So I wanted to make sure I came back to the Board as the Board's appointed trustee. I should have done
it earlier, and that's on me, and just share more on what was discussed, why it was discussed and why I
certainly advocated for that increase. The actuary said $11 million. And I advocated for more as well. So
just wanted to share that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. The only other thing that I have to say is this is a
daunting process. It's the last time I will say this. This is new to me, here, as a Director. But I appreciate
your ability to meet with us to break this down into small bite-sized chunks that I can actually wrap my
head around. I think I would be crying if I had a million page document like some of our sister agencies
do. OK? Guys. But I also appreciate this is a little less complicated than even balancing my checkbook.
So we do have some work to do as a Board to find the happy medium.
I'm excited to see us do a budget. Thumbs up on that, one budget, do it right, do it for the whole year, and
we will meet it. And so I just want to end on a note of thanks for all the time that you have shared with me
going through these items and explaining them to me so that I understand it fully. I do feel prepared to
make a decision on this tonight. And I think the Board then needs to pivot and do work on what our fiscal
policy will look like for next year through our meetings. So thank you for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As I stated during the Finance and Planning
Committee meeting, I think what we have encountered here is what I described as the Goldilocks
phenomenon. In the past, we had the Papa Bear version of the budget, which was significantly closer to
what agencies like WMATA and BART and DART might do in their presentations.
This Board asked for that to be trimmed down. This Board said, can we please have the Mama Bear
version of the budget, which is significantly smaller than the Papa Bear version. I think what I hear now is
we'd like to get the Baby Bear version that is just right, something between Mama and Papa.
That fact, that we encountered the Mama Bear version, is not, I submit, a justification to vote no on this
budget. Because all reasonable questions have been answered, or at least they've been available for
answer, as Director Guzman just so appropriately pointed out. So my thought is that it should be a yes
vote now. And we can ask staff to retool its presentation in the future so that we can address, at last, the
Goldilocks phenomenon.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Any other questions or comments? I have a few-- oh,
go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. This is JoyAnn Ruscha from District B.

So my experience was different than some of my colleagues relative to getting information about this
budget. And I won't go through my own punch list of outstanding items point by point. But I personally did
ask for some information, including some of the points raised by our folks that came tonight for public
comment. And that information wasn't given. And I can respect that we might have done things a certain
way in the past and that the agency is following our fiscal policy, but I personally can't get behind
something that I can't explain.
So I also have to be a no. But I want to say on the record, I tried very hard to get to yes, which is why I
asked for more comprehensive summaries, what are we buying, and why I asked for more information
regarding our asset management plan and what has changed. One of the things that I asked was, can
you just disclose what the original fiscal year appropriation was in capital carryforward?
At one point, I was advised to submit a CORA request. Don't threaten me with a good time. But if I have
to feel like I need to go through and reconcile receipts, that's a red flag.
I, again, I wanted to get to yes. And I recognize our process doesn't allow for that kind of inquiry and
disclosure, especially on the timeline we've created for ourselves. So I really-- but I also-- I'm going to use
my own privilege, because my mic hasn't been cut, and I'm going to ask staff, can we please get that
comprehensive summary that some of us have been asking for? And for the folks in the audience today,
who I think are the salt of the Earth. They keep us honest and they are our biggest fans. Can we also
commit to making sure that their questions are answered in a look forward moment?
I recognize I'm not the Chair and I can't directly dialogue. But if the Chair will be permissive.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Permissive for what?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is there anybody from RTD staff with the authority here? Can you assure me, or us,
or members of the audience, that yes, their questions will be addressed and that we will have more
information on what I presume we are going to authorize tonight, what we're buying?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I've heard several of their questions already answered. And I have one or two that I
was going to put forward. So it would probably be better, if you have questions, if you want to be specific
about what you're still wanting to know, that might be helpful.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. In the interest of time, I was just trying to-- I was trying to
recognize my colleagues.
So there was a question raised, for example, regarding ticket vending machines and PCI compliance. I
also noted as well, because when I was trying to figure out what we were voting on, I went back to
previous budgets and I went back to the last comprehensive MTFP to see what I could find out about
what was before me, and is that something that staff would be able to address this evening?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. MacLeod. Or Ms. Johnson, whoever.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, thank you very much. Doug MacLeod and I have had conversations
about this. And so he oversees the aspect of Treasury that has auspices over the ticket vending machine
so he's most appropriate to address that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you and good evening. And yes, regarding the ticket vending machines, so
those have been planned to be replaced. And just to give context, over the years as we've built the
FasTracks projects and expanded our rails, we actually have two different versions of, two different
models of ticket vending machines. So it's long been known that there's a PCI issue that needs to be
addressed.
Payment card industry compliance requires that certain technology be embedded. For instance, you've
probably seen at different retailers the swipe cards. Those are no longer PCI compliant. And this is a very
simplified example. It's the ones that you put your card into, it reads the chip. And then there's a lot of
back end things that have to happen, a lot of encryption of data that transfers between that device and
the bank, for instance.
So our particular ticket vending machines, the two different models we have are on two different systems.
Part of the replacement discussion that I had with General Manager when she came to the agency was
very good. It was strategic. Instead of simply just replacing all of the ticket vending machines wholesale,
we were going through a fare study and equity analysis and wanted to ensure that we actually not only
met PCI compliance, but also addressed customer needs in terms of functionality, location, Civil Rights
requirements, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act. So there's a lot of information and planning that's gone into
that replacement. So essentially that project was put on hold in the meantime, plus COVID was going on
and there was very few transactions occurring with the ticket vending machines.
Suffice it to say that our cybersecurity department is well aware. They've been involved in this from the
beginning and measures have been taken to protect customer data on those ticket vending machines.
The issue really at this point is with the card processors, Visa, Mastercard, American Express. They have
a deadline set. At a point in time, they were fining RTD $5,000 a month because we had not met PCI
compliance. After COVID, they discontinued those fines. We are no longer paying those fines because
we've dropped to a level of transactions that doesn't meet that threshold.
So needless to say, that money has been carried forward with the plans of replacing with the correct
machines that would set RTD up for the future on a single system with correct data that's PCI compliant,
that's customer friendly, that also meets Title VI requirements. That's why that funding is scheduled for
2024. We plan to have the scope of work completed by the end of this year and go to procurement early
in 2024.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Does that answer your question?
Let me just add, too, that I have a question going-- I'm back to you to see what other questions. But I think
also, we appreciate all of you coming from Greater Denver Transit to speak to us and to raise these
questions, and your questions. And if there are some that have gone unanswered that you would like
answered, you can email the Board Office and we will get you answers. So I think Mr MacLeod and all of
us are trying to be very transparent. So Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I appreciate that comprehensive response. For those of us who don't
have the level of expertise, can you just clarify right now-- I mean, is our customers' data at risk? I mean,
has that-- do we have a stop gap measure? Is that something? Or we can-DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah. I'm not qualified to discuss that. However, I don't think probably it's appropriate
to discuss those details in public. But I'd sure be happy to get back to you, Director Ruscha, if that's OK,
with somebody who knows more about the issue.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I'm not even sure I was entirely qualified to ask the
question.
So there was also a note about Welton Street and blank out signs. And I did make an inquiry through the
Board Office. I noticed there's a memo in my inbox that I haven't-- I didn't have a chance to fully read
before the meeting. So if it was addressed, I apologize. But since it was brought up-- and this also came
up in our Vision Zero Town Hall last week. I was just wondering if someone could briefly update us as to
the status of that project and maybe just some context for the delay.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to ask Jyotsna Vishwakarma, who is serving as the acting AGM of
Capital Programs, but to provide just-- please Jyotsna, thank you-- to provide some context.
Upon my arrival here at this organization, I understood that this was put forward relative to the blank out
signs. And we were working with the PUC, and there were some elements associated with the PUC that
caused a delay. And so not trying to pass the buck, but in reference to the delay of the project, it was
working in conjunction with the PUC as a path forward. But I will yield the floor to Ms. Vishwakarma.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So the Welton blackout safety improvement
project has two components. One of it is to improve the signage so the motorists are more aware of the
train movements. And the other component of that is to update the associated technology, because the
corridor was built 30 years ago and some of those parts are very difficult to get.
So a contract has been awarded. It's a difficult project to implement in the sense of we have supply chain
issues. All the work has to be carefully planned. We have rail service running. So folks are working on it
and we expect it will go into 2024 to be finished.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you for that. And just for context-LYNN GUISSINGER: Is your microphone on?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, thank you. Thank you for that. And just for context, for those who weren't aware,
I believe we originally submitted whatever requisite documentation we had to with the city in 2021 and the
funds were appropriated last cycle. And this is also-- this is in our carryforward. So that was the context
behind the question. And thank you for that explanation, Ms. Johnson, that, without even further context, I
can see how that makes sense.
One of our commenters talked about data. And I don't know if they said the word trust. But I think that the
more we share, the more trust we build. And again, I recognize that we're probably at a turning point. And
next year I think I'll be in the position to say yes to a budget. But that would be just one example, I think,
of how a little bit more information could build trust with the public and maybe reduce some of the
questions in the interim between meetings.
I did have a clarifying question, if I may continue, regarding the light rail replacement. And by that I'm
talking about the $150 million line item request. And I apologize if this was addressed previously while I

was taking notes. But in the published budgets and in the subsequent memos, I don't think we have been
specific if that $150 million is for the downtown loop or if that also includes Welton, Central, et cetera. And
I was just wondering if someone could speak to what we think the $150 million will cover geographically.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the
question. It's a good one.
And so as we talk about the rail replacement project, the first phase is the downtown loop. And so there's- I don't have it in front of me, but the geographic area does go up to Welton, yes, and it incorporates all of
that. There's like five intersections, so there are certain segments. And so what we anticipate doing in
2024, should the Board grant us authority to do so, after we put out a solicitation and things of the like,
would be the most critical area where we see vulnerability, quite naturally at intersections.
Because that's where not only you have a rail car [? consus ?] traveling over that that is of heavy weight,
but you also have vehicular traffic traveling. And so that's why we, with our nomenclature, have been
talking about the downtown loop, because there's like four critical intersections. And I'm smiling here
because my staff calls it four plus one, and I don't like four plus one. And so basically, I'm thinking there's
four intersections and then there's another piece. And so I was like, why don't we just say those five
areas? But anyway.
So that would be the first phase. And we're working through that plan and quite naturally would apprise
the Board, recognizing that there is the first segment and there is a total of four segments as we look to
go forward. We're going through the process of factoring in what is most critical. All of it's critical, but there
are some that have greater vulnerability, quite naturally, when you think about the age.
And more specifically, there's various aspects of requirements because when that was first opened up,
October 7, 1994, that was under construction prior to the ADA. So there are certain elements that we'd
have to go in subterraneanally. And those are the unknown variables right now as we work through,
because there were a lot of parking lots, as I understand, down there in 1994. And so the [INAUDIBLE]
aren't as current as one would surmise, considering that aspects of the Convention Center weren't there
and things of the like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think Director Ruscha, if you're OK with it, we've got a couple more
people in line. We can come back if you have other questions. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have just a couple of comments.
RTD has three million people in our service area. I have over 200,000 constituents myself. And while I
greatly appreciate the gentleman from Greater Denver Transit's interest in our routing and our finances
and our overall agency management, I regularly hear from constituents, and I imagine that other Directors
hear from their constituents also, on a variety of topics, including routing, ridership, overall agency
management.
And so I want to point out that the packet for this meeting is published on Thursday, which is several days
before this meeting. And it might benefit both RTD and Greater Denver Transit if those six constituents
would put their questions to the RTD staff prior to the meeting, where they could get written specific
responses instead of everybody kind of trying to punt on the subject as it comes up right now.

So I realize that they are Director Ruscha's colleagues, as she said, and we're certainly happy that you're
here. We like to have people come to the meetings. I wish more people would come and that more
people would take time to look at the stuff that you guys look at. I'm just reminding us all that we have a
whole, whole, whole, whole, whole lot of people who have interest in what we're doing. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. With regard to General Manager/CEO Johnson's discussion
about the $150 million appropriation for the downtown loop, whatever, I asked that question in a one-onone meeting with her. And what appealed to me was that this is a comprehensive look. But I think it would
be also very good, given the exercise that staff is going through to identify how this money will be spent
and what the scope of work would be, we have some other aging lines-- and I'll bring up the Southwest
corridor along Santa Fe-- that we might be facing a similar circumstance in the future.
So it would be, in my view, really nice to have kind of a comprehensive, with the asset management
approach, a comprehensive look at all of those corridors and where we might be looking at the next
investment. That's my comment. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I don't see anyone else. Director-- that's right. I have a question and a
couple of comments. Director Ruscha, did you have more?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, Madame Chair. So when looking at attachments B and C, new
capital and capital carryforward, I noticed that hoisted district shops was listed in both. And I wasn't sure if
the agency was requesting $4 million or $8 million.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. Yeah, correct. Those are actually-- we're asking for $8
million. So the $4 million was already previously approved and that work has not been completed. So
we're asking to carry that forward. And then there was additional work planned in the asset management
plan, which attachment A is essentially what the asset management plan is putting forth for
recommended replacements. So it would be a total of $8 million.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for that. And I'm glad for that answer, because it would be a real
headache to amend the motion to decrease it by $4 million, if we double counted on accident.
But to that end, I-- actually, I'm going to yield. I really appreciate the conversation tonight. And I have full
faith that next year's budget process will look different. And some of these conversations in the last few
months might have been painful but I think we'll all come out better for it. So I appreciate everyone's time
and I appreciate staff's time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just have a question. There was a mention earlier of issues raised by
the PUC and the concern that maybe the safety issues were not successful. I think those issues were
raised by us, but I'd like to see if, I think it's probably Ms. Johnson to address that, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the question. So recognizing we talked
about our internal audit function and things of the like, we are heavily regulated. And just for everyone's
edification, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission serves as the state oversight agency as it relates to
light rail. And with that as a backdrop, what we do as an agency ourselves, we have internal safety
reviews. And during the course of our internal safety review, we looked at rail ourselves and noticed that,

hey, we need to ensure that we have mitigation efforts in place and we apprise the CPUC of that going
forward.
And so getting back to Director Catlin's comment relative to a comprehensive plan, that's exactly what
we're doing. When we talk about a transit asset management plan, that's why it's imperative that we do
this in tandem, as we look at the useful life going forward because looking at elements on a piecemeal
basis to-- I don't want to use the word Band-Aid, because we've actually replaced that-- but what we do is
ensure that we have track inspectors go out and we're looking at the flangeway and trying to see where
we are in the critical aspects.
So these are things that we're cognizant of that we're raising our hands to as we go forward, because
when we do our own internal safety reviews, the CPUC then comes back. So we call it an audit of the
audit that happens here at the organization. So that's a high level just overview. But relative to 19th and
Stout, which came up during public comment, our staff are the ones that identified that going forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And it's been fixed?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It has been fixed, ma'am. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. So I've had this conversation, what I'm hearing around the room about
our fiscal policies, asked for a summary, what we got was maybe too much of a summary. I've had this
conversation with both our CFO and our CEO and both of them said, yeah, let's have the conversation.
Let's figure out where exactly the information we need.
So it's the fiscal policy, but it's also, I think, for the Finance and Planning Committee to put in their work
plan, which we're going to talk about later. But at any rate, to start soon and work with our CFO and our
CEO and the budget team, who I give a lot of credit to too, and really say, we've got a lot of information, a
lot of questions that have come up this year, what do we need in the budget? Let's look at other agencies
and say, OK, is there a better way? I was here when we would get a very detailed minutia-based budget.
And it was very hard to penetrate.
But I do think, at one point we did look at other budgets, at least briefly. And I think that it sounds to me
like staff is also looking forward to clearing it up. And I will say the things that you're doing now with
moving away from the amended budget, moving to linking our asset management plan and cleaning up
the capital carryforward, let's carry that on and work on that next year.
All right. Are there any other comments or are we ready to vote? All right. Let me get to our roll.
And I will say that having gone through this with the questions from the Finance and Planning Committee,
that I've had concerns about the summary style but I am comfortable voting yes on this.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guissinger, yes. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. i heard 13 yeses and 2 nos. The two nos were Director Dishell and
Director Ruscha. And so the motion passes and we have adopted the budget.
I am going to suggest now, before we move into still a fairly busy agenda, that we take a quick break. I
have-- it's about, let's see, it's 7:45. Five minutes? All right. Five minutes. Seven minutes? OK, five
minutes.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] You know it's going to be eight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I know.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

All right. Calling us back to order, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, ma'am. We're back to order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Calling us back to order. All right.
[GAVEL BANGS]

All right. I'm calling the meeting back to order. There are six-- oh, excuse me, I'm going to start over here.
Sorry. All right. There are four items on the unanimous consent agenda listed under Section 18, actions B
through E. Those items are 2024 Internal Audit Committee function charter, salaried trustee
appointments, paratransit vehicle procurement, and the January, 2024 service change.
There's been a request to remove the latter two-- one of those requests is for me-- the paratransit vehicle
procurement and the January, 2024 service change from the unanimous consent agenda. If anyone else
has a change and would like to have some discussion or has questions and would like to remove an item
from the unanimous consent agenda, please let me know now. All right.
TROY WHITMORE: Would it be appropriate for a motion for the remaining items?
LYNN GUISSINGER: There will.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. All right, fine. We need a motion to pass unanimous consent agenda and
we have a motion. I heard Director Whitmore and was it Rosenthal that seconded? OK, great. So that
leaves the 2024 Internal Audit Committee function charter, for the Board of Directors to approve the 2024
internal audit function charter, and the salaried trustee appointments, for the Board of Directors to
approve resolution number blank, series of 2023, reappointing Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer and
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit-Oriented Communities, as trustees with terms expiring December 31,
2025, and appointing Jennie Waski, Senior Specialist, Benefits, with a term expiring December 31, 2024,
to the salaried employee defined benefit pension plan, or the DB plan, and the salaried employee defined
contribution retirement plan, DC plan trust.
We have a movant and a second. Are there any no votes on this action? OK. Seeing-- I believe
everybody's back. Seeing 15 yes votes and zero no votes, the unanimous consent agenda is passed.
There are six recommended actions on the agenda tonight, listed as Section 19, actions D through I. The
first action D is for the paratransit vehicle procurement, for the Board of Directors to authorize the General
Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Model 1 Commercial Vehicles Inc. for the
purchase of 19 paratransit vehicles at a price of $149,047 each, for a total cost of $2,831,893 in 2024.
The contract also contains options for the purchase of up to an additional 231 paratransit and 53 FlexRide
vehicles over a five-year period for an estimated not to exceed cost of $49 million. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
BOB BROOM: Approval.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Buzek. I heard Buzek as the movant and Broom as the second. Is there any
discussion on this motion? OK. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: One question. And I'm sorry to staff that I didn't ask this question prior so you could
be prepared. But what is the emissions like on these vehicles? Is it about the same or less on these
newer vehicles versus the ones that we have now?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question. I would say that the emissions are probably
about the same going forward, because these aren't alternatively fueled vehicles, hence, that's why we
are looking at 19 purchase with the options, as we're in the midst of a facilities and fleet transition plan,
recognizing that there's only one OEM, being original equipment manufacturer, relative to where we are,
thought it was most prudent to go forward and have options as we discern our path forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I've had some great conversations with General Manager Johnson and her
staff on this issue because I really, really, really, really would like to see us just buy one electric vehicle.
But I have been led to believe that the complications involved in that are many and diverse, and that the
fact that we have options for the purchase of an additional 231 paratransit vehicles of this same type does
not necessarily mean that we have to exercise that and we will be looking at additional alternatively
powered vehicles as we go forward. Thank you very much. And I'd like to thank Mr. Worthen for all the
time that he spent helping me to understand that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. All right. Any further discussion? Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. So I had posed a question to staff. And I wasn't able to
get through the memo before the meeting in full. And I was just wondering if you could briefly address the
question in the [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Ruscha. So yes, the question posed was relative to
why are we only looking at 19 when we talked about our current fleet and we talk about 343. And we said
that they were in need of replacement.
So it gets back to the fleet replacement schedule, recognizing as well that when the comment was made
relative to where we were in the assessment of vehicles were done, that was in 2019, right on the cusp of
COVID. A lot of the vehicles hadn't been driven as we go forward. And in light of the comment relative to
alternatively fueled vehicles, we're looking at this 19. So we're holding those additional ones in abeyance
should something come out of the facilities and fleet transition plan or there's different manufacturers on
the scene and things of the like. So 19 are the ones that are in need of replacement because they have
exceeded their useful life.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. This is Director Ruscha again. So as I understand the original RFQ, I
think had called for 66 in the first year, and then it was amended. And so that was part-- I mean, that was
some context just behind my question.
And then I had noted a concern, which may or may not be founded. Staff had said in the original memo
that these buses were in need of dire replacement. And I could also see that this was part of capital
carryforward for a couple of years. And so the context there was, are we replacing our fleet fast enough?
Or is there a bottleneck? And I didn't perhaps there was a market issue or some other reason.
So that's why I'd also asked, what is that fleet transition or that replacement plan and what that schedule
looks like. And so I just want to provide that context for my colleagues who also might not have had a
chance to read the memo or process it fully.
I did note-- I see there is a comment-- I think I read this correctly-- that we might consider not purchasing
the same configurations in-- could you address that? Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Director Ruscha. And just for point of clarification, we had
a request for proposal, not a request for qualifications, in reference to the solicitation.
So recognizing that we need to engage actively with our end users, i.e. the customers, as we go forward,
what we're endeavoring to do is work with the community that is actually utilizing these vehicles to discern
the best path forward. I can speak from a place of knowing when I first came on board here at this
organization and I set up recurring meetings with representatives from the disability community, there
were things relative to the ride not being comfortable.
For those that may not know, there's not currently an equipment manufacturer that makes paratransit
vehicles. Hence, they are retrofitted. And there are a lot of differences with that as you go forward. So we
want to ensure that there is an understanding from the community and seek input relative to what might
be optimal. And so we are going to embark upon a comprehensive engagement process as it relates to
the configuration of the vehicle since. That's why they could change.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I--

LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I? Thank you. Thank you for that explanation. And so I guess I have a process
question to anyone who can answer it. The recommended action before us is an option for initial
purchase and then-- sorry, I'm trying to read and speak at the same time-- and then, I don't know if we call
it extension options or, I don't know what we call this in procurement parlance. But essentially, there is
initial purchase and then over a period of time, if we want to, we can buy more. Is that-- OK, Thank. You.
So is this recommended action giving our GM/CEO authority to do that pending future budget
authorization? Or will there be another conversation about potentially different vehicles that-- I just, I'm
trying to-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So while the action talks about the 19 paratransit vehicles at the price for each,
recognizing the delegation of authority as we know it to be today, if we were to exercise this, I would have
to come back to the Board. And I think this is a critical element relative to the Board being kept apprised,
especially as we engage with our communities holistically to discern the best path forward.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you for that clarification. I was going to be a no vote on this one. I will be
a yes and I appreciate the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Is the additional purchase option at the same strike price for paratransit? I
know FlexRide vehicles are slightly different so I don't expect they'd be the same price.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So with that, I will ask Mr. Worthen. He's online and his hand is raised. His camera is
not working. So Mr. Worthen, if you could go forward and address that. Because he has auspices over
fleet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks, Mr. Worthen. Go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Hopefully you can hear me OK. I apologize. I'm in a place where I have
limited cellular access right now.
To answer your question, Director Dishell, if I understand it correctly, by exercising this contract as we are
bringing forth to you, the initial contract price is guaranteed. And then depending upon the length of time,
there are markups. But the markups are limited to specific to the contract itself. So we would pay a higher
price exercising it down the road, in accordance with the contract, but this locks that in, though. Whereas
if we do not lock in the options at this point, we would have to completely rebid and would be more than
likely facing much higher cost for purchasing vehicles down the road.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: I have a few questions here. Two in particular. So I'm just curious-- and you may not
know this at this point-- what do you think engagement looks like for the disability community as we're
looking to reimagine these vehicles? I'm just curious what that looks like. And even just how much ability
there is to make these reconfigurations on building. And if they are viable, why haven't they been done
sooner? That's question number one.
And then question number two is, as we're talking about the fleet replacement of our buses and then
potentially bringing in alternative transportation or like, alternative fuels or batteries or whatever on these,
is that part of the transition plan or is that something else that we're going to have to have another
consultant come in and talk to us about what that vehicle transition looks like as well? So those are my
two questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question. And I see Mr. Worthen's hand is up, but I will
start and ask him if there's additional information.
So a couple things as we talk about reimagining vehicles. In reference to my previous comments, when I
engaged with some representatives specifically, we were talking about the comfort of the ride, because
the suspension is done a little differently. And conversation ensued for a person who's legally blind or with
limited vision, what the experience may be. We actually had members of the team go out and wear
devices whereby they could experience it firsthand.
So when we talk about what might the configuration look like, it runs the gamut. And I can't answer that at
this juncture because we want them to be involved. And it's very analogous. I will speak from a place of
doing this at different agencies, where we have had individuals come in and help us talk about the seating
capacity. Should there be extra room for a PC, a personal care attendant? We don't want to have
necessarily seats that are facing backwards if somebody had vertigo or something of the like. So those
are the types of things we're talking about as we look to reimagine the experience going forward. I think it
will be critically important for us to help discern-- for them to help us discern what that path is.
And then as we talk about paratransit vehicles, I'd be remiss to state that, yes, we as an agency procure
vehicles and we have third parties that operate them. As we look at the fleet and facilities transition plan
holistically, we are looking at everything. And that was the intent, so we'd have an understanding of where
might we be and this is a plan that will lead us to make informed decisions relative to what it is that we
can do. Because there could be a time in the future where a recommendation could be put forward,
maybe it's more prudent for RTD to operate those vehicles. And I think all of that is on the table.
So I just wanted to try to address that question to the best of my ability. Mr. Worthen, your hand was up. It
went down. Is there something you'd like to add?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. Thank you, CEO Johnson. And thank you for the question, sir.
When we start talking about configurations, one, these newer vehicles do have a better suspension so
they should offer a better quality ride. But as we start looking at it longer term, our fleet plan, we're not just
looking at whether or not we should purchase wheelchair equipped vehicles but whether or not we should
look at a fleet mix that includes vehicles that may be sedans or smaller vans. And that may impact how
we configure vehicles down the road as well.

We also have heavy engagement. In the past, we have engaged members of the disability community to
provide feedback on vehicles and vehicle configurations. And some of that is going into the existing
procurement. But as we start talking about other types of vehicles, more than likely we will have to do
separate procurements for those. We may have some ability to purchase some vehicles off of state
contracts. But if we start looking at alternative fueled vehicles or large numbers of vehicles, we will
probably have to go out for a separate contract for those. And I believe that was one of your other
questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. More, Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah. This is more just, because this sort of overlaps with my day job. I think there are
other partners out in the community, like NETC in downtown, or that are also doing similar, they provide
these on-demand shuttles. And I think they would probably have a strong interest in some of these
vehicles as we move forward, both in alternative transportation but also in alternative configuration. So
they might just be good partners to keep in mind as you're progressing. Because this conversation comes
up a lot in that work. And so just food for thought.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. So I just want to make-- I'm pretty sure I know the
answer to this. But in the memo, there's a reference to lifts. And it says that, for example, given that the
majority of Access-a-Ride customers do not require lift equipped vehicles to accommodate mobility
devices, staff will work with disability groups, stakeholders, and customers to determine whether sedans
or other similar vehicles, which are significantly less costly than cutaway vehicles, could be incorporated
into the fleet mix.
And so we're not talking about-- or I guess I want to just clarify-- are we discussing reducing, potentially
reducing in the future our wheelchair accessible fleet or-- good. Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So that's why we're having discussions. Because as we look at data, and
we know there's been conversations regarding the availability of WAVs, wheelchair accessible vehicles.
And with the data that we see currently, that oftentimes we're utilizing more sedans. And so when
somebody is calling for a wheelchair accessible vehicle, that could be taking some individual that doesn't
have a mobility device.
And so collectively, doing an assessment, talking to the community and making a decision going forward.
And that's what Mr. Worthen was talking about, mixed fleet, having perhaps more sedans, because right
now we don't. But these 19 are wheelchair accessible vehicles, hence the cutaways.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may. Thank you for that. And I had to ask. Because you can have a wheelchair
accessible sedan, or I should say, like a van, right, that doesn't have a lift. And so I just wanted to make
sure that is what I read, because I misread it the first time, it sounds like.
So I recognize this is going to pass anyway. I'm going to respectfully decline to vote yes because I just
don't know what I don't know, and this was too much information in a short amount of time. And I just
have concern that even if we had best intentions that we might be moving to-- we might be getting ahead
of ourselves. And again, I don't know what I don't know. And so I can't comfortably vote yes today. But I
really appreciate the dialogue and I trust that we'll continue to dialogue with members of our community
who will be most impacted by this decision.

But as we saw, I just have to say it, as we saw when we moved to on-demand-- I'm sorry, if you don't
mind. I was-- thank you. When we moved to on-demand, we did reduce the number of wheelchair
accessible vehicles in our fleet in a way, because subcontracted out that service. And I just worry that
there might be some unforeseen challenges. But I appreciate it. And thank you for the dialogue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams. Another bite.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to point out that we had a lot of discussion
on this in the Operations and Safety Committee meeting before we moved this forward. And that, in next
year, because we're done with that and we're done with this, in the next year it might be a good place to
have all these discussions before we get here and then you would know what you didn't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. It's time to take a vote. And are there any-- I believe there is a no
vote. So let's do the roll call.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek. No, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger, Yes. Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Action E, January, 2024 service change, for the Board of Directors to approve
the January, 2024 service changes as revised and summarized in attachment A and to authorize the
General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators impacted by these changes. Do we have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Who said the motion? OK, Rosenthal. Second, was that you, Bouquet?
You'll take it. OK.
And I just have one question. It's maybe for Mr. Carter, or for Ms. Johnson. But it came up in our public
comment and I've heard it other times is, why do we have our public meetings prior to setting out the
service change schedule?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I'll start. And if there's something additional, I'll ask Mr. Carter to come up.
So just for a backdrop, when we look at developing our schedules, quite naturally, it's a multi-pronged
approach. First you have to discern what the schedule is. Then basically, that enables us to understand
how many vehicles we need, how many people we need, what street supervision we need to help
manage congestion.
So quite naturally, when we basically go forward, we have to ensure that we have people that can work
and we can adhere to a schedule. And contractually with our collective bargaining agreement, employees
bid on their work shifts. So recognizing putting forward a schedule prior to us actually knowing the people
power that we have available is not commonplace relative to the transit industry and how this is done
going forward.

What happens is that there are discussions that ensue relative to what we may look at possibilities and
that goes out for public discussion. And we want to hear feedback from those that are utilizing the system.
I'll say, and I think most of you will agree that Mr. Carter and his staff do yeoman's work three times a
year in a relatively short period of time and make every-- what am I trying to say here? Try to make every
effort to address those concerns.
Specifically as it relates to where we are right now, we bring this forward to the Board. Now recognizing
that we have to go through this process, there has to be a bid on the work, you all are approving-- if, in
fact, you're inclined to do so-- approve the service modifications, there will be a bid for employees to bid
on said work as we go forward. We don't do that in the front.
And I've worked in the transit industry for a period of time. I'm tired. I think it's very obvious my jet lag is
kicking in. So that's where we are. Mr. Carter, is there anything you'd like to add? Please feel free.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. I can't get the microphone to work, so that's proof that I'm tired as well. That said,
first and foremost, I do want to thank the members of GDT for coming and also populating our public
hearing process. We haven't had a lot of that over the past few years with the pandemic.
But I do want to assure them that it's quite normal in the industry, in the transit industry that things like a
service or a schedule change, a minor schedule change, it's not something that is even taken to a
policymaking board or a policymaking group. It's something that is seen as routine maintenance on the
system. So with the public outreach, the purpose of the public outreach process is really to talk about
some of the larger changes that affect the riding public and the system as a whole. And among our
guiding principles is to look very closely at those, at the effects of our proposed or recommended actions,
how it would have an effect on the system as a whole.
So I will say in defense of my workgroup, and that is, often we come back to the Board of Directors with
changes to the initial recommendation. You can go back through and look at many of our past service
changes and you will see, identified in those Board reports, additional changes that were brought up as a
result of further analysis of our system and as a result of the public process and as a result of operator
input. And we do make changes to that.
But as CEO Johnson mentioned, we have a schedule to keep in order to make the changes and get the
changes ready for the vote, for our operators to actually vote on their work. And so it isn't commonplace
for us to have a schedule already in hand for the public to review.
So I'm not saying that's not something that could happen, because it does in major, when we do major
changes or make major changes to a network, like the addition of a new rail alignment. That's when you'll
see something like a schedule and the whole service schema provided. However, when it's routine
maintenance, we just don't have the bandwidth to do that. It's not to say that it's not something we want to
discuss with the public. But it's, we don't have the bandwidth to actually do that.
So with that, I would close or answer any other questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to thank Mr. Carter. I've been doing this job for
seven years now and I cannot tell you how many times a constituent of mine has reached out to me to
ask me, can we stop a block earlier? Can we come 15 minutes earlier? Can we work on the transfer from
one to another? And Mr. Carter and his team repeatedly have either done it or explained why not. And so

I am truly, truly grateful for the concern that you and all of your team show for our riders. So thank you,
sir.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And to build off of Director Williams' statement, definitely
thank you, Mr. Carter, and to all of your staff and to all the staff of the agency. And especially to thank
everyone involved in changing Route 65 on Monaco Parkway.
And I have to-- but it's built on all this. Because we heard from constituents. We had done a change in the
route. And we heard from the folks at 4333 South Syracuse Street, particularly Cheryl, Doreen, Avery,
Sherri, and others, that said, hey, now we have to go a block. And mind you, it is a long block. And all the
folks who contacted me are senior citizens, some of whom are disabled. And they're like, look, we used to
get the bus across the street. And the staff at RTD was like, we will meet with them. And we did. And they
listened and heard the concerns and did their yeoman's job to make the change.
And so the point of all that is is really, again to build on what Director Williams has said, is we listen. And I
mean, not just us Directors, but our staff listens. From the General Manager to our bus drivers to
everybody listens intently. I know it's a big agency with a big budget but they really do. And they do care.
They've spent their lives working for RTD and for this industry.
So I just want to say, please do understand that sometimes it may take a couple of months to get a bus
route changed or changed back. But it's really, they do a great job. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. This is Director Ruscha representing District B.
So I had a chance to speak with Mr. Carter about this, and I really appreciate his time. And so I just
wanted to stat here what I had stated privately was-- and I think I mentioned this before-- years ago, when
I was a young, struggling single mom, we lived and died by the 73. And I remember this one winter, I was
like, how do I contact somebody at RTD? And then like two weeks later, I found out we had an elected
Board.
So my position just as a elected official who does vote on these service changes, even the very minor
ones, and I understand that's unique for this agency, is just that we find a way to provide the public
comment to the Board, if they want to read that. I understand that not everybody wants to read all the
comments. But I've just committed that for any process that we're voting on and we have public comment,
I will read the comments to the best of my ability.
So that was a request I made. And I just wanted to say that on the record. I'm a yes on this. And I
appreciate the time that staff took with me in this memo and also just addressing the public tonight. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. Similar to Directors Rosenthal and Williams, I would like to say our staff really
does listen and participation in the public hearings is useful. You might not get what you want
immediately, at that round of service change, but you were heard. And in my experience, if people
express themselves in the public hearing, staff looks at that and tries to accommodate the concerns. And

in the past, they have. It took a couple of rounds because it was a difficult request, but it happens. So
participation is not meaningless. It's very effective.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just quickly want to say, one of the departments that this year's first round of
Directors did not have an onboarding with was your department. But you've always been able to answer
questions when we come to you, and I really appreciate that. It is something that we do need to make
sure happens sooner rather than later, because I got a million questions I'd love to ask you about this and
the process. Not to get into the managerial stuff but just to understand it better. I want to be clear, as a
Board member, since it does come to us and we have to make these decisions. So thank you. Thank you
for the work and thank you for being here.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Time for the vote. Do we have any no votes on this action? All right, with 15
yes votes and zero no votes the item moves forward. It's passed.
Action F is for the Audit Committee member appointments. I believe it may read wrongly in our agenda.
But it's for the RTD Board to reappoint Director Bobby Dishell and Director Peggy Catlin as members of
the Audit Committee with terms expiring December 31, 2025. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Buzek as the movant and Director Williams as the second. Is there
any discussion? They get to vote on themselves. So with no discussion, are there any no votes? OK, with
zero no votes and 15 yes votes, this motion passes.
All right. Item G, Board schedule for in-person and remote meetings, for the Board of Directors to approve
the default meeting location for full Board and committee meetings. In adopting this action, unless
otherwise determined by the Chair in consultation with the Executive Committee, the Board anticipates
holding all standing and ad hoc committee meetings virtually and holding monthly Board meetings,
special Board meetings, and study sessions in person at the 1660 Blake Street offices. In-person
meetings will retain a hybrid or virtual option for public participation.
Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Tie for second. All right, I'm going to go with Director Whitmore for the movant and
Director Bouquet for the second. Is there any discussion on this motion? All right. No discussion. Oh-DOUG TISDALE: Sorry. What am I, chopped liver?
[LAUGHTER]

LYNN GUISSINGER: You're chopped liver. Have at it, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just wanted to make a note that perhaps the recommended
action could more adequately be stated as meeting location for 2024. Otherwise, this would appear to be
in perpetuity. And that's a question I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that was the decision was not to make it just for one year, that we were
moving back to a-- a decision was set. Let's see. I'm not sure where that-KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE] Robert's Rules?
DOUG TISDALE: Not if there's not appetite for it. No, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm full.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're full? OK. All right. All right. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. I just wanted to quote one of my fellow colleagues, which is, if the Board makes a
decision it wants to change, the Board can always move to change it.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Who are you quoting, Director Dishell? OK. Any other discussion? All right. Now
we'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes? With 15 yes votes and zero no votes, that motion passes.
All right. H, revised Board of Directors expense and reimbursement policy, for the Board of Directors to
approve the revised RTD Board of Directors expense and reimbursement policy, which, if approved, will
take effect on January 1, 2024. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Guzman as the movant and Director Bouquet as the perennial
second here. Is there any discussion on this motion? Did you have something to add, Director? OK. Is
there any discussion on this motion? Absent that, are there any no votes? All right. With 15 yes votes and
zero no votes, this motion passes.
All right. Finally, action I for the bylaws amendment, Director informal meeting process, for the Board of
Directors to amend Article IV of the bylaws of the Regional Transportation District to establish a
procedure for informal meetings to engage in discussions of public business with three or more members.
Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Sloan as the movant and Director Catlin as the second.

I believe I'm listed as the presenter. And I'm just going to take about 30 seconds to say that this came up
earlier when there was a question about whether we were complying with the Open Meetings Law. And
people were concerned about whether they were. We can do these meetings as long as we're complying
with the Open Meetings Law. I think the Vision Zero meetings are an example of how that is happening.
This, in fact, at this point goes a little bit-- it basically just puts in our bylaws, we are going to comply with
the Open Meetings Law, and it goes a little further by requiring 48 hours notice to staff and minutes. So is
there discussion on this motion? Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Thank you very much. I've had three words tonight and they are all the word,
second. So I'm going to take a little time.
So did we-- I asked a question regarding this with our discussion item-- is there a comparable agency that
does the same when it comes down to this being in their bylaws in regards of falling open meeting law but
having it as informal meetings? I'm just curious if there's any research.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think there's any research. But really, any meeting, as long as it follows the
Open Meetings Law and the other laws, the ADA and Title VI, which there may be an amendment
proposed, as long as we're following law, we can do this, as long as we're following the Open Meetings
Law. So really what we're doing is putting it in our bylaws and actually being more strict about getting the
word out to people so that the Board knows and staff knows and we keep minutes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I guess the other point would be regarding public accessibility with these
informal meetings. I see that Blake Street will remain as a location available to Directors who wish to
utilize it. If Blake Street isn't used, how do we guarantee that the public is-- well, not necessarily noticed,
but I guess can participate and are accessible to these meetings, I guess would be the big part.
Because what's so great about these formal meetings is anyone can sit back here. It's open to the public.
They can listen. They can give in public comment. And of course, that's accessible when it comes down
to a virtual standpoint. But I guess accessibility when it comes down to in-person potential informal
meetings. So that would be my question, and doesn't necessarily need an answer. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. Do you want to say anything on that?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just briefly. Yes, if ADA and Title VI apply, it would be up to the Directors calling and
planning the meeting to make sure it was not only in compliance with the Open Meetings Act but the other
requirements for public meetings. And these would definitely be public meetings.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that all?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just have concerns on that. But that's where I'll end. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Guzman-- I believe we actually may have an amendment being
proposed. Are you proposing that? No, OK. Go ahead. And maybe we'll get that amendment here-MICHAEL GUZMAN: It may lead to it but I'm not doing that right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do have a question. Something that we've heard over and over this year is that we
are a recipient of federal dollars, which does invoke the need for accessibility in terms of language,
maybe transcription or interpretation services at these types of meetings, depending on what they are.
They're supposed to be informal. They're not supposed to be about policy. But I do have a question along
those lines as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They could be about policy. But go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: They may be. But they're not necessarily about that, right. That's part of, it's
informal to get to something that may lead to a policy request by the Board of Directors, as I understand
it. That's what was presented. That it's not necessarily just three people getting together to determine
policies to be brought to this Board, but it may be the networking of three or more Directors who have a
common thread, either in their area or whatever.
And so that being said, there is a need, as a point of clarification, to discuss the fact that we receive
federal dollars, as an agency. We oversee the agency. Are we bound by that law? If we are, then Title VI
needs to be included in here fairly and securely. And that will, in fact, impact financially the budget, right,
either the Directors that have to pay for those services.
For example, I'm speaking to all of you in English. I have done so all year long, except for when I've
chosen to speak in Spanish or you've allowed me to. But you don't know how brilliant I am in Spanish.
You see a filtered version of me speaking to you and communicating in English. We haven't used ASL in
here. We have not used Italian or Portuguese or French or Russian or Polish, for that matter.
I do you the favor. Let me make that clear again. I do you the favor of speaking in English. So while I'm
over here doing mental gymnastics, scribbling out my notes as fast as I can to keep up with you, I've
never once asked for a Spanish interpreter to be here to assist me in doing this.
But if we have a meeting, I have that right. Who pays for it? I can't push it back on my constituents. Do we
take care of that or not? And it's a legitimate question in reference to this particular bylaw. Because it
binds us as a Board, which is something that we have refrained from doing all year long. And I want to
make sure that this is something that is liberating us to do our work and not binding us in an unfair way.
I have constituents that would need that. And I would have to respect that. But I do not have a budget of
unending dollars to provide that service every time I hold a town hall or an informal meeting with the
people that are impacted in the North and West of Denver to do this work without that assistance.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see Ms. Snyder with her hand up.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So to answer
your question directly, Director Guzman, yes. So the ADA, of course, both Titles II and III apply to RTD,
as well as Title VI. So with respect to the language access assistance, that could be provided.
So I do think that this proposal is suggesting a 48-hour advance notice. That's the notice that we put at
the end of every agenda. We put that out there and ask that people who have any requests for ASL
interpreters or language interpreters or any other kind of assisted listening devices, that they just make
that request to Board staff 48 hours in advance. And that will allow and ensure that we can have that
assistance available. And that would be RTD pays for that.

So that would apply to these informal meetings as well, because we do have an obligation to follow those
laws for all of the programs and services that we offer. You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Ruscha, do you have an amendment to raise to this?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't. But Director Broom is ahead of me in the queue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I just thought we'd cut to the chase if you had an amendment. OK, Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a question. Will there be a requirement that RTD will
have to furnish a staff member to attend these meetings so that they make sure that they turn the lights
off and lock the door when they're done having a meeting somewhere?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I don't think so.
BOB BROOM: I'm going to have to vote no on this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess we assume the Directors could do that. But that's fine. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. So I, in full disclosure, I did speak with some of the
proponents behind this bylaws change and I did ask if we could include ADA and Title VI. Because as a
Director who has had informal meetings, air quote, meaning joint town halls, this is something that I and
we have had to deal with. So General Counsel Snyder noted that, yes, RTD would assume the cost. But I
think what Director Guzman was getting at is, which cost center?
And right now, we have been told that the policy is if you require access for yourself or your constituents
require access for your meeting, that comes out of your Director budget. And so what we did for our
Vision Zero meetings is we budgeted that for next year and for the rest of this year. I was told I had to
budget for closed captioning.
Now as a person who represents the other district with the second highest LEP population, I will
absolutely not ever have a town hall where I cannot ensure language access and transit justice. That's
not how I do things. I don't think that's how my predecessor did things. And what I have been told is well if
you come to the end of your local budget because you were getting language interpretation services, go
to the Chair and ask for an additional appropriation.
So the reason why I bring this up is it's not so much the bylaws language. I thought it could be a little
cleaner. But it's the accompanying memo that says Directors are on their own. We have, I believe, gone
through great lengths to ensure that we are compliant with OML. We're noticing. We put stuff in Google
Drive so everybody can access the materials.
But we did have some questions about OML compliance, because we don't have-- and I respect staff has
other things to do, as well. But without that help, I was actually kind of concerned. Because if I take
minutes, well, who do I give my minutes to? I mean, technically I think that's the Secretary, or the Board
Office. But like where do those minutes live? And if there was a open records request, how does that get
handled? Just things like that.
So I understand the history behind this bylaws change request. And as it's been noted, we can have
informal meetings even without this change. But I guess I just want to caution my colleagues that it

doesn't stop here. I think we need to work out some SOPs to ensure that we are compliant with OML, with
ADA, with Title VI, and that we do have to address the cost center issue in an equitable way. Because the
last thing we want is any Director feeling like they can't have a town hall because they don't have money
in their budget for interpretation services, or Directors-- I'll stop there. But-- I'll stop.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for bringing that up. This Board and the agency
has decades of experience of running formal meetings, committee meetings, ad hoc committee meetings.
Your Vision Zero meetings have been the-- you have been pioneers in learning about running informal
meetings. And thank you for that.
You've pointed out there are some-- I can't say details-- some procedures that need to be worked out. I
don't believe they belong in the bylaw itself. And after we talked, I thought maybe the first informal
meeting after we pass this bylaw would be anyone who's interested in putting bumpers around how we're
going to do it. But I think this bylaw recognizes what's already being done and describes it adequately for
our bylaw provisions.
So I would say, no, this isn't the complete answer, but it does recognize what is already happening.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have one comment and one question for Ms. Snyder, which is that we've
talked about having a discussion of general accessibility for our meetings, probably in our January Board
meeting, Executive Committee, and then the Board meeting. Does this bylaw commit the Board to
particular processes in terms of costs?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think in short, no, it does not. And I do think that it's appropriate, as you're talking
about the Executive Committee taking up consideration of a potential broader accessibility policy, that
probably is the best forum to discuss some of the SOPs or procedures that could be worked out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you very much.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did have a discussion earlier with Director
Ruscha relative to some of these points and some of the questions that have been raised by the other
Directors. And the question is whether we should also amend Article IV, Section 7, just to add the ADA
and Title VI in that. It's-- and I'm sorry, page 182 in your packet, if you're looking for where I'm speaking.
Article IV is where this bylaw would be inserted. Section 7, toward the end of that, in 7(a), says all
meetings, dot, dot, dot, shall be conducted in accordance with Colorado Open Meetings Law, dot, dot,
dot. The question is, should we include ADA and Title VI there?
It would be nice. We could do that. I submit it's actually not required that we do that. Because at the end
of the bylaws, it does say that these bylaws are subject to all other applicable laws and rules that impact
the RTD. So I don't know that we need it. But it was discussed at one point that maybe it might make
people feel more comfortable that we had specifically considered it and put it in.

By the same token, these standard operating procedures that are being discussed, the SOPs, could
address that as well. So I just make that comment from an editorial point of view. I would be in support of
the bylaw amendment, knowing that it does need some parameters built by virtue of SOPs or otherwise.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha. Thank you, Director Tisdale.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. I'll be brief. I did want to clarify that the reason why I
didn't bring forth or circulate a motion to amend is because I didn't know if I had the consensus of the
folks bringing it forward and we were short on time. I also didn't know what the discussion would be like
with my colleagues. So I thought that if there was consensus, we could do it here.
That being said, we already have to follow OML. It's already in our bylaws. And I do believe that when we
go through the process of stating what our bylaws are, we're also talking about our values. So if we're
going to insert an additional two paragraphs regarding informal meetings and OML, that is a statement
saying that we believe in transparency. And therefore, I do think it would be appropriate for us to also
state that we firmly intend to comply with anti-discrimination laws.
So I just wanted to give some context for that. But that's why I didn't circulate something, because I didn't
know where we were as far as consensus. But thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. If somebody wants to make an amendment, that's fine. If not, we'll just go
ahead and vote. OK. All right. I'm going to do this by-- I'm sorry, Melanie, did you have something to say?
No.
I'm going to do it by roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guissinger, yes. Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Respectfully no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Let's see. One, two, three, four, five, six. One, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight. I have six to nine. The yeas-- no, it passed. I'm sorry? Oh, it's right. It passed. It failed, OK.
That's right. All right. We're done with that.
All right. Pardon me. I've got to get back to where we are here.
Discussion items. I think we can keep these-- well, let's move forward. Potential bylaw amendment,
committee work plans. Mr. Kroll, do you have a presentation on this?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I came over earlier in anticipation of discussing the other
item. And so I wasn't as prepared this time, since I didn't have anything to say on the last one.
So this is contained on pages 258 and 259 of your packet. This is a proposed bylaw change that arose
out of the conversation at the October fall study session around committee work plans. The simple idea of
a committee work plan is that each committee, each standing committee and ad hoc committee that you
all impanel, would meet in the early stages of each fiscal year to discuss effectively what they were going
to either pass as a recommended action or discuss as a matter of policy throughout the proceeding 10 to
12 months.

These are really effective tools to assist staff in preparing appropriately for Board member requests and
meetings. They're also really effective tools for ensuring that members who aren't necessarily in positions
of being the Committee Chair, Vice Chair are empowered to provide input on what a committee that they
serve on discusses and looks at over the course of the year.
It's a great way to manage the workflow that is required to come through the Board on the standing
committees. As you all know, a lot of what you pass are contracts and various things when assets reach
the end of life. So you'll have a sense of what is coming down the pike for you all and also be able to fit in
things that you all find valuable to bring forward and discuss with your peers.
Currently, your bylaws have an outlet for Directors to come together and take a three Director initiated
action or request a discussion item through three Directors. That is a pretty brute force tool. It protects, I
think, the rights of certain minority viewpoints on the Board. Committee work plans are really a more
streamlined, effective, and efficient way of bringing forward ideas for your colleagues' consideration that I
think the three Director rule covers right now, but committee work plans kind of take that a step further
and allow you all to bring forward ideas in a manner that is, I think, more collaborative and focused on
consensus building.
So I've proposed language in the bylaw, for a bylaw change. This item came before the Executive
Committee. There were no comments necessarily then. I'm open to any comments or suggestions now.
The process would then be in January to, after incorporating any additional comments, to bring this item
back through the Executive Committee as a recommended action and then for approval at the January
Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Kroll. Just two minor comments. One would be that the Board
Office, or the Executive Committee, that there is a template so that the work plans are standardized
across committees. And then separately, just wanted to make sure that, the first sentence says that the
full Board is reviewing but only the committee is approving. And was wondering if you could talk more on
the intent and idea there.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. So to both of your points, the first point, Director Catlin actually had made the same
requests. So duly noted.
As I was contemplating how this would be structured, if you all had a change to your work plan, I didn't
want that necessarily to have to be approved by the full Board every time there was a change. And so
that's why I included the language review. At any time, obviously, the Board's authority would trump that
of any of its committees.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? Thank you, Director-- thank you, not Director, Mr. Kroll, for bringing
this forward. I think we're all excited about it. All right.
Report of Director activities.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS AND LAUGHTER]
Would anyone like to report on their activities for November? Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to report that at the end of October, I
met with the leadership of WMATA and had a tour of their facilities in DC and Virginia, including their new
communications facilities the day before they had their ribbon cutting. It was arranged by WMATA Board
Chair Paul Smedberg. And I wanted to express publicly my appreciation to Chair Smedberg for extending
that courtesy.
And then for the information of all of us, the APTA Executive Committee, consisting of 25 transit leaders
from across the US and Canada, held our annual retreat November 9 to 12, covering a number of transit
issues of significance to our APTA membership, including updates on workforce initiatives, the crisis in
bus manufacturing that we are facing, a continuing global crisis in safety and security, and efforts on
diversity and inclusion and other matters. And I would be happy to provide additional details to any
Director or any member of staff at any time at their convenience. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be quick. I just want to say thank you, Madam Chair, for giving your permission
for the Board Office to work with me. In the beginning of the month, I was invited to go speak with the
Board, the newly elected Board of Directors-- or the newly electeds that formed the Board of Directors, let
me say it that way, that are appointed for the Merrimack Valley Transit Authority in Massachusetts. It was
really a lot of fun.
Thank you to Director Tisdale for his great work with his Board retreat just prior. I got to use a few of
those notes. But it's a small area. They have free fare, that's what they call it, on all of their public bus
system. And they've removed their fare boxes from their buses, which is amazing to get on a bus that
way. Also, 86% of the community speaks Spanish. They're either Dominican or Puerto Rican. And so I felt
right at home. And we had a great time.
But the Board of Directors were amazing people. And I got to sit on a panel and give them some great
advice because I've learned from all of you so many wonderful things this year. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great. All right. I know it's late, but I'm going to take a few minutes, my
Chair's report, to talk about what the year has held, because I think we really had a very good year.
I'll say just briefly, in terms of what-- just two things, a couple of things I've done in November, where I
attended the meeting that Ms. Johnson mentioned at the Carriage House that Erik Davidson and Debra
Johnson and I attended. It's talking about what the future of transit and rail would look like in Colorado. It's
probably 50, 60 people, I don't-- you know, we'll see where that leads. But there's some interesting
concepts. They asked us afterwards what's your vision. So it's kind of an interesting process to think
through that.
And then Erik Davidson and I met with Representative Linstedt and Senator Winter about possible
legislation involving RTD. I'm sure everybody's hearing that. They're talking about transit-oriented
communities, about potential funding, and about governance. And right now what they're doing is
stakeholding, talking to lots of people. There is no consensus at all. And so we'll keep you posted as what
we learn.
This is the last meeting that I will be Chair, and other than next week. But that's a special meeting, so I
thought I'd take just a few minutes.

I heard a nice story today. Hampton Roads, which is an area of Virginia, had a state of transit conference
yesterday. And someone asked what transit agencies around the country were worth emulating. And the
CEO said, RTD in Denver has a robust system that's worth striving for. So I thought I would start by
sharing that.
First, I want to extend our huge thanks-- and I think I speak for all of us-- to our GM/CEO Debra Johnson
and her team. I would love to start naming off her team. I see many of them here. But I would blow it. I
would not name all the people that deserve credit. I can say Polege. But yeah, it's OK. So thank you all
very much for all the hard work.
And I also want to thank this Board, because it's been a lot of hard work for us too. And I think we're doing
a good collaborating, sometimes pushing for more. Two big accomplishments that we hear all the time
about are the Zero Fare for Better Air, which expanded this year, at RTD's urging, to two months. Initially
that came to us, but we said, no, we can do this for two months. And it went very well. And Ms. Johnson
worked with FTA to allow us to do a one-year pilot for Zero Fares for Youth through age 19. [APPLAUSE]
Yeah.
These are such great ideas that the governor has included funding for both in his proposed budget. And
the Transportation Legislation Review Committee is moving forward a bill to make funding for youth fares
free throughout the state, zero fare throughout the state. So of course, that's worth clapping, because
that's how we build the next generation of transit riders.
In my mind, almost outshining both of these was the fare and equity study, fare study and equity analysis
that was conducted and resulted in lower, less complicated fares for so many of our services. For those
who haven't been on the Board that long, I would have to say that this would never have happened in the
past before this leadership. And I'm very appreciative of Ms. Johnson's leadership there.
A monthly transit pass for people who qualify for discounted fares starting in January is $27. Astonishing,
right? It's a great thing. Except for airport rides, transit fares throughout the District go down in January to
$2.75. So for anyone still on this Zoom call or listening in the future, come back, come ride to RTD. It's
going to be less expensive.
And I think one of the other things that is making it better is the Respect the Ride. It's a very popular plan
that draws our customers in to support the work that our staff is doing in making our facilities, buses,
trains, and stations, safer for people riding. I think the Board worked with the staff to expand the outreach,
to listen to consumers, and together we made this a better and really an important piece of what we're
offering at this point.
I want to thank our CFO, Doug MacLeod-- I will raise one name here-- and his team for their really smart
work in refinancing some of our debt. The result is that Standard and Poor's has upgraded some of our
FasTracks bonds to their highest rating, at triple A. Fitch has done that as well, to a higher rating there.
I'm going to just list a few more accomplishments. We created the partnership program, working with our
local government partners to create our partnership program. It's modest at the start but it's growing next
year. And we were able to award partial funding for eight projects that were proposed by our local
stakeholders.
Part of that was, and in response to something recommended by the Accountability Committee, we
created the Regional Service Councils. This is something that I think was requested by one of our

speakers tonight when we were talking about service and listening earlier. I think the goal of this is to
listen sooner. And we have these councils that devise the partnership projects and also advise on
service. It's really just getting going at this point and I think we're developing the relationship, but I think
it's coming along nicely. And I think it will be a good piece.
Bravo on the Audit Committee. Peggy Catlin deserves a lot of credit. She's been saying for years, let's get
this thing going. Director Dishell and Director Davidson also deserve a lot of credit, and staff as well and
the people we've hired to help us. But I really think this is-- I went to that last Audit Committee. There's
some really great work being done. And I encourage everyone to go as well.
Front Range Passenger Rail. We have the memorandum of understanding and an ongoing collaboration.
Debra Johnson is going on their board retreat this week. And so we are well represented and I think a
voice that is respected in working through that. We have the Fleet and Facilities Transition Plan. We're
working to help our region and our world and all of us address our critical climate and ozone goals. And I
think that's something we've all wanted. We talked earlier this year about updating our sustainability plan.
I hope we get that into our work plans for 2024 and move that forward.
Colorado 119. We partnered with Boulder County, CDOT, Boulder, Longmont and others to apply for and
receive a $25 million federal grant to add to the $33 million that RTD not only committed to the project but
I'm pretty sure was the first money that was committed to that project.
And just a couple of other things. The Transit Asset Management Plan that's moving forward, keep our
assets safe and up to date, the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study, and so many things that I think are
not even visible to the public that are going on at the agency.
I'm not putting out there that it's perfect. We've heard a lot of things tonight that we want to work on. I
think next year, working on our work plans, we got a lot of things to move forward. I think we're working to
increase-- maybe the way to say it is to define better the communication, the information that the Board
needs and wants. And I think Ms. Johnson and her team are open to giving us that. It's up to all of us to
work together to put that together.
Workforce gains. It's slower than we might like. But making progress, especially on hiring. Next year, we'll
be working on retention. Ms. Polege and her team, I think, are doing a lot of great work in moving that
forward.
So I would also say that, thanks to all of the Directors, not only are we focused on all of this work but we
have people working on, as Director Williams reminded me, the DRCOG Regional Transportation
Commission, the E-470 Board, the Metro Mayors Board, the CDOT liaison, the Jeff tag, the Arapahoe
County, Zero Emission Vehicle Coalition, a lot of other things to make our region better. And I hope I
don't-- I'm not trying to leave anybody out. I think everybody is doing a lot of things. Director Tisdale is a
big name at APTA, and we appreciate that.
I know what we all want is to really return the service that we'd like to return, have that service be where
people feel safe and it's frequent. It's coming when people, if you miss your bus, you just stand around a
little bit and the next one comes. It's reliable. And hopefully, all of these efforts will come together to
getting us to that.
So thank you for a very good year. Thank you for allowing me to do this job. And I think that's it. We'll be
back next week for a special meeting.

Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wondered if we could get a short update on whether any
of the legislation passed at the special session has any impact on RTD.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know the answer to that in particular. I don't think-- I know Michael's not
here. Debra, do you know?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I don't believe so. But what we can do is circle back with a Board memorandum and
have that fleshed out to address the question, Director Broom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be great. I think I saw Director Davidson and then Director Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Chair Guissinger, I just wanted to say thank you. I know this is a great report
and great summary of the year. The Chair position comes with a particular type of stress that I have been
in the cheap seats watching. It's very specific. And I just am reminded of Theodore Roosevelt's famous
quote that it is not the critic who counts, not the person who points out how the strong person stumbles or
where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the person who is actually in
the arena.
So thank you for being in the arena. Thank you for putting in that hard work. Thank you for chairing this
Board during what I agree has been a very successful and fruitful year. Very, very much appreciate you
bearing that stress in this past year and doing a great job with it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you all. Thank you. Thanks. I appreciate it.
Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I join in the sentiments. I do have one specific
question. Second Vice Chair Davidson stated that the Performance Committee on next Monday morning
will be considering an amendment to the GM/CEO contract, and then that proposal will be submitted to
the full Board for possible action eight hours later. And I just wanted, and we discussed this privately, but I
just wanted to have a clarification. Did I hear that correctly?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer that. But Director Davidson, do you want to take that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. I can take that. Yeah, thank you, Director Tisdale. The amendment that would be
under consideration is with regards to the goals and the proposed goals for the adoption next year. The
proposal would be to move the adoption of weighted success outcomes and goals as it relates to the
General Manager and CEO's performance to January 31, as opposed to December 31, to allow that vote
to happen at the beginning of each year.
And that would be not a temporary change. That would be a permanent change to the contract to allow
incoming boards in January to decide upon those goals, although the goal discussions will start earlier in
the year, and also to allow time to complete performance evaluation by the end of December and then

lock in our performance goals by the end of January, in the beginning of the year, would be the
amendment we are considering that I can share at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I wanted to say, well done. Director Davidson summed up the praise of
your service this last year very aptly. I think one thing I would like to add was that the surveys that we
were presented that showed the remarkable improvement in customer satisfaction and employee
satisfaction, and especially as it relates to national scores, I think is extraordinary. And I just wanted to
say that this year was great in terms of that improvement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks for reminding us.
All right. Not seeing anything else, yeah, we have a motion to adjourn. Let me just say that we have a
meeting next Monday, December 4, special Board meeting to approve the CEO's 2023 performance
appraisal. There will be a Performance Committee meeting that morning. All of this will go out to the
Board. Tuesday, January 9 is the special Board meeting for the election of officers for 2024.
Seeing no other discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn. All right. The meeting is adjourned at
9:14.
Thank you for joining us. Have a good night.

