Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
June 13, 2019 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

Recommended Action
A.

Expense Policy Amendment

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee that the Board of Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of
Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual (Expense Policy) regarding the
attendance or participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited
guest in a local, transit-related event when the Director is unable to attend the
event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2
– Strong & Ethical Leadership.
III.

June Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - June 18, 2019
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Juan Hernandez – Sales/Information – 16 years
Michael E. Reid – Bus Operator – 28 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 14, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

XII.

Recommended Action
A.

August 2019 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the August 2019 Service Change package as revised
and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized base system cost
savings of $856,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service
is impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
B.

Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General
Manager’s goals for 2020 as defined in the attached General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation document.

C.

Approval Pass Program Phasing from 3 to 5 Years

It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to move the
phasing of the price increase due to the 2019 fare changes for CollegePass,
EcoPass, and Neighborhood EcoPass from a 3 year phase-in period to a 5 year
phase-in period. This would extend the 20% cap on price increases to not only year
2019 and 2020 but also years 2021 and 2022 with the full implementation of the
fare increase in 2023.
GM Goals
 GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management
D.

Approval FT Litigation Contract Authority

It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and
execute contracts, including contract amendments, to engage, or continue to
engage, outside legal counsel to represent RTD for an additional $4 million for a
total amount not to exceed $12.5 million.
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and
GM Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.2.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: May 2, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Director, District H

GM

Date:

May 2, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Expense Policy Amendment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors approve an amendment to the RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual
(Expense Policy) regarding the attendance or participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or
invited guest in a local, transit-related event when the Director is unable to attend the event.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical
Leadership.
BACKGROUND
Current Board policy permits a spouse or significant other or other invited guest to accompany a Director
who is attending a local, transit-related event.
DISCUSSION
The proposed amendment to the Expense Policy clarifies the policy regarding the attendance or
participation of a Director’s spouse or significant other or invited guest in a local, transit-related event
when the Director is unable to attend the event.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the adoption of the amendment to the Expense Policy.
ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the proposed amendment to the Expense Policy.
2. To reject the amendment. This is not the preferred alternative.

ATTACHMENTS:


2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.2.A

Packet Pg. 5

1.2.A.a

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Board of Directors Office

RTD BOARD OF
DIRECTORS EXPENSE
POLICY AND
PROCEDURES MANUAL

Revised 5/14/2019

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

1 of 16

Packet Pg. 6

1.2.A.a

TABLE OF CONTENTS

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.0. General Policy.................................................................................................................. 3
2.0. Reimbursable Expenses................................................................................................. 5
3.0. Travel Request Process................................................................................................. 7
3.1. Reservations ................................................................................................................ 7
3.2. Travel Advance........................................................................................................... 7
4.0. Travel Arrangements ..................................................................................................... 8
4.1. Transportation............................................................................................................. 8
4.1.1. Airlines ................................................................................................................. 8
4.1.2. Ground Transportation ..................................................................................... 8
4.1.3. Car Rental............................................................................................................ 9
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles .............................................................................................. 9
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement................................................................................. 10
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations) ........................................................................ 10
4.3. Meals ......................................................................................................................... 10
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses ......................................................................................... 11
4.5. In State Travel .......................................................................................................... 11
5.0. Business Communications ........................................................................................ 11
6.0. Publications .................................................................................................................... 12
7.0. Conference Registrations ........................................................................................... 12
7.1. Local Conferences/Seminars ................................................................................. 13
7.2. Out of Town Conferences ..................................................................................... 13
8.0. Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions ............................................ 13
9.0. Transit Related Community Events .......................................................................... 14
10.0.
Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events .............................. 14
11.0.
Travel Insurance ....................................................................................................... 14
12.0.
Expense Reports....................................................................................................... 14
12.1. Travel Expense Reports .......................................................................................... 14
12.2. Local Expense Reports ............................................................................................ 15
12.3. Expense Records ...................................................................................................... 15
13.0.
Definitions .................................................................................................................. 18

2 of 16

Packet Pg. 7

1.2.A.a

The Regional Transportation District Act, specifically in sections 32-9-114 (d) and
32-9-117, establishes the authority for reimbursement of necessary expenses
pertaining to the activities of the District.
General Policy
Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.0.

Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District for reasonable expenses
incurred that are necessary to the transaction of official District business. Each
Director must, at all times, exercise sound judgment when incurring and submitting
such expenses, in keeping within the standards and proprieties of an agency
supported by public tax dollars.
Each Director’s annual budget is as follows:
Travel Expense and
Conferences Annually
$6000.00

Local Expense Annually

IT Expenses Annually

$4000.00

1680.00

At the discretion of the Chair, the Board Office may transfer monies between a
Director’s Travel and Local budget accounts to cover expenses incurred or anticipated
to be incurred by the Director. IT expenses eligible for reimbursement are outlined in
Section 5.0, Business Communications. Directors may not transfer monies from their
IT expense budgets to either Local or Travel budgets. A Director may not transfer
expense monies to another Director. The Chair may, at his or her discretion, utilize
monies from the Chair’s discretionary funds to pay for another Director’s travel or
local expenses.
The Board of Directors may choose to periodically limit by way of resolution the
amount annually allocated to the Directors’ expense accounts as the economy and
the fiscal sustainability of the District dictate.
The Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District has taken formal action
to delegate authorization for travel necessary to the transaction of official business
as follows:
1. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, business travel expenses
for Directors to consult with Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA), other federal agencies, or the Congressional
Delegation in Washington, D.C., on matters pertaining to RTD activities.
2. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, conference travel
expenses for Directors to attend transit industry related conferences.
3. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, training travel expenses
for Directors to attend educational workshops.
4. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, business travel expenses
for Directors to visit other transit properties.
5. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, transit related local travel
and related expenses.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

3 of 16

Packet Pg. 8

1.2.A.a

6. The allowable expenses contained in this document include air travel, food,
lodging, business communications, gratuities, and other such reimbursable
expenses detailed in Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

The Chair may choose to deny a request from a Director for travel not covered by
items 1-6 above, refer the request to the Executive Committee, or both. The Chair
may refer any travel request to the Executive Committee without the Chair’s prior
determination on the request.
A Director whose request for travel has been denied by the Chair or the Executive
Committee may appeal for reconsideration of the denial by the full Board. Unless the
travel request is subsequently approved, the Board Office cannot make further travel
arrangements related to the denied trip. A Director is not eligible for reimbursement
for the cost of any unapproved travel costs or arrangements booked by the Director.
The Chair must deny the travel request of any Director who has expended or will
have expended prior to the trip all monies from the Director’s travel budget, unless
the Chair elects to pay for the Director’s trip expenses using the Chair’s discretionary
funds.
The Board of Directors may not incur expenses to any RTD departmental (except
Board Office) or non-departmental budget code. All incurred travel related-expenses
eligible for reimbursement by a Director must be charged to the Director’s travel
Budget.
For any travel in the last three months of service of a Director’s term, the District
cannot reimburse expenses for transit conferences to Directors who have not met
the statutory requirements to be placed on the ballot for re-election or who are term
limited. Special travel requests by these Directors to complete special projects or
those who have been approved to speak on behalf of the agency can be reviewed
for approval by the full Board, within budget limitations.
A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary event expenses
incurred by the Director and a spouse, significant other, or guest if the event is a
local, transit-related event sponsored by RTD. The expenses of the Director and the
Director’s spouse, significant other, or invited guest, are paid from the Director’s
local expense fund. (Resolution 002, Series of 2019).
Directors serve as ambassadors for the entire agency and its mission when attending
local, transit-related events.
A Director is not authorized to delegate that
ambassadorial duty to a spouse or significant other or other invited guest if the
Director is unable to attend such events personally. As such, it is appropriate for any
such other person to refrain from attending an event in a Director’s stead.
While the Colorado Independent Ethics Commission has ruled that Article XXIX of
the State Constitution (also referred to as Amendment 41) pertaining to ethics in
government does not specifically apply to the RTD Board, the recommendation from
RTD’s General Counsel is for Directors to refrain from accepting anything of greater
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

4 of 16

Packet Pg. 9

than nominal value in the exercise of their official duties. A Director who attends,
as a function of his or her official duties, a meal or event for which the expected
value of attendance exceeds $50.00 is responsible for the cost of the Director’s
attendance. Directors may submit itemized receipts for reimbursement, or the Board
Office can make arrangements prior to the meal or event and charge the cost to the
Director’s local expenses.
2.0.

Reimbursable Expenses

To protect the interest of the District and to provide guidelines for the Directors to
follow, the following provisions govern allowances for out of town and local business
related expenses within established budget limits. Only business expenses may be
claimed. The purchase of alcohol is not reimbursable and should not be reflected on
submitted receipts.
In order to be eligible for reimbursement for an ordinary and necessary RTD business
related expense, the Director must submit a proper itemized receipt showing the cost,
time, date, business purpose, and the name and title of any qualifying attendee, if
applicable. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in one’s field
of trade, business or profession. Examples of ordinary and necessary local expenses
include mileage reimbursement, conference or seminar registration fees, parking,
business meeting expenses, and attendance at transit-related or community events
that are considered a necessary part of conducting District business. Political
meetings partisan conferences or political group activities cannot be covered as an
RTD expense.
In order to be reimbursed for meals and event expenses, Directors must submit an
itemized receipt. If meetings between Directors and either employees or business
contacts take place outside of the District office, the meal costs are equally divided
among the Directors attending and charged to each Director’s local expense account
accordingly. Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for meals or event fees
incurred by spouses, significant others, or guests except as described in Section 1.0,
General Policy.
In the event that RTD purchases a table for an event for which not all seats are
claimed by Directors and staff, a Director may request additional seats on a firstcome, first-served basis and may invite a guest at no cost to the Director’s local
expense account.
Expenses for meals submitted without a proper itemized receipt and documentation
of time, place and purpose will only be reimbursed $10.00 at the discretion of the
Chair.
Board or Committee Meetings are typically arranged at the convenience of Directors
to coincide with meal times and are considered a District expense. If meetings
between Directors and employees or business contacts take place outside of the
District offices, the meal cost will be equally divided among the Directors attending
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

5 of 16

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.2.A.a

1.2.A.a

Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for expenses, such as meals, flights,
hotels, etc., whether local or out-of-District, for any non-RTD transit-related business.
This includes expenses incurred by spouses, significant others, guests, or
dependents. In the event that a Director departs from an out-of-district event or
conference earlier than anticipated or stays longer than originally scheduled through
the Board Office, the Director cannot be reimbursed for meals or lodging fees for the
day or days of the early departure or late stay. For any additional airline fees or
charges incurred as the result of a flight change due to an early departure or late
stay, the Director must bear the cost as a personal expense.
The following expense categories may be claimed as a necessary part of
conducting District business:
 Registration fees (with approval and receipt only)
 Air transportation
 Ground transportation and tolls
 Mileage for personal vehicles
 Parking fees
 Lodging and travel internet expenses
 Personal meals for out-of-town travel or approved local conferences, as
outlined in section 4
 Business meeting expenses, both local and travel
 Gratuities – housekeeping, transportation and restaurant with receipts
 Cell phone fees associated with travel
 Rental car
 Postage for District business only
 Toner cartridges
 Other expenses identified for the benefit of the District.
The following expenses are not authorized for reimbursement unless approved by the
Chair:
 Personal expenses such as personal hygiene items, magazines, in-room
movies, in-flight movies, pre boarding fees, laundry, raincoats, childcare,
pet care, etc.
 Travel insurance (note:
All Directors receive Travel and Accident
Insurance, which covers the Director while traveling on district business.
 Alcohol (Reference RTD Drug and Alcohol policy)
 Expenses that are of unusual nature
The Chair has discretion in approving Director expenses. If requested expenses do
not fall within the expense guidelines, the Chair must seek advice and
recommendations from the Executive Committee.
The Chair may authorize Director travel to locations for the purpose of coordinating
with governmental agencies, consultants, contractors, or for participation in
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

6 of 16

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

and charged to their local expense accounts accordingly. In order to be reimbursed
for these meal costs, Directors must provide an itemized receipt.

1.2.A.a

3.0.

Travel Request Process
3.1. Reservations

Travel arrangements for the RTD Directors are typically handled by the Board Office.
Travel authorizations signed by the Chair are required for all travel. Directors should
contact the office at least 30 days in advance and provide all information needed to
complete the airline and hotel accommodations. If a Director chooses to make his or
her own travel arrangements, all travel confirmations are to be provided to the Board
Office at the time of booking for the purpose of providing travel packets.
When requesting travel arrangements, Directors should provide the following
information to the Board Office:
 Purpose of the trip
 Destination
 Requested arrival and departure time
 Preferred airline and frequent flyer number (if applicable)
 Any applicable discounts, credits or travel miles to be utilized
 Special considerations
 Travel advance required
Unless prior approval is obtained, the Board Office arranges Directors’ travel on the
most economical fare for the required journey and makes every effort to book the
Directors their desired flights and host hotel accommodations. The Board Office
provides travel packets to each Director with the flight and hotel confirmation,
transportation information, a copy of the event registration and agenda, and other
pertinent travel materials, including an envelope for receipts and travel advance, if
requested, as described in Section 3.2, Travel Advance.
Travel requests received less than seven business days before the scheduled trip are
processed based on the most current rates and availability. A travel approval must
be submitted prior to booking any travel, and a travel advance cannot be issued due
to such short notice.
3.2.

Travel Advance

Directors may request a travel advance up to the amount of the $200.00 for
estimated out-of-pocket expense that will be incurred, less any expenses paid directly
by RTD. Advances should be limited to expenses such as registration fees and
lodging (if not pre-paid by RTD), ground transportation, meals, and gratuities.
A Director seeking a travel advance must request the advance for anticipated travel
expenses at least three weeks prior to the expected departure. Cash advances
cannot be granted unless sufficient funds are available in the requesting Director’s
budget account and are issued through General Accounting approximately five days
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

7 of 16

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

professional meetings deemed in RTD’s best interest. Attendance will be authorized
if the meeting offers a substantial benefit to the conduct of District business or
enhancing professional advancement of the Director.

1.2.A.a

4.0.

Travel Arrangements
4.1.

Transportation
4.1.1. Air Transportation
Air transportation for travel to out-of-District conferences and events is typically
arranged by the RTD Board Office. Travel by indirect routes, or inclusion of side-trips
for personal reasons, must be approved by the Chair. Reimbursement for travel
expenses in a host city is allowed one day before the start of a conference or one
day following scheduled conference events where travel scheduling provisions or
same day flight times are not available or convenient, such as when a Director would
need to fly from Denver to Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a
conference with a start day of Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director
to arrive in time for the Sunday meeting start time.
Directors are responsible for any portion of ticket costs resulting from personal side
trips (including hotel, food, ground transportation, and parking). Airfare is calculated
on a pro-rated basis, but under no circumstance is RTD’s expense to exceed the
economy class or equivalent direct-route pricing.
If the RTD air travel is a portion of another planned flight that has been arranged
directly by the Director, a copy of the itinerary and ticket claiming reimbursement
must be provided to the Board Office at the time of booking and with the expense
report form.
A Director is responsible for any first-class, business class, stretch seating, and prorata boarding expenses.
Directors who wish to use their frequent flyer miles (if applicable) must provide the
Board Office with the frequent flyer number at the time of the booking. The Board
Office requests this information in advance, but it is the sole responsibility of the
Director to ensure his or her account has been credited with the frequent flyer mileage
information.
All air transportation credits paid for by RTD are to be utilized in the booking of future
Director travel only and are not for personal use.
4.1.2. Ground Transportation
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual expense of ground
transportation necessary to conduct official business. As a representative for the
transit agency, Directors are expected to utilize the most efficient, timely, and costeffective ground transportation when traveling locally or out of town, namely public
transit, shuttlebus service, transportation network company such as UBER or LYFT,
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

8 of 16

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

prior to departure. The Director is responsible for submitting the final expense form
within 30 days after return to the District and must remit any unused cash advance
monies to RTD in the form of a check at the time of submitting the final expense
form.

1.2.A.a

4.1.3. Car Rental
Car rental expenses are permitted only with prior approval of the RTD Board Chair
and only when absolutely necessary in the event that another means of transportation
is not feasible. Rental car arrangements should be made by the Board Office staff.
Travel between the airport and the hotel or conference center by rental car or other
means are eligible for reimbursement with receipts provided that the Chair has
authorized the rental.
The rental car should be contracted for a size appropriate for the number of
passengers. The Director must include a copy of the rental contract when submitting
the expense report. Reasonable parking and storage fees for rental cars may be
claimed for reimbursement. Note: Travelers must ensure that adequate insurance
coverage is in place by purchasing optional insurance coverage as part of the rental
agreement. Cars are to be refueled before returning to the rental agency.
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than
by Air
The use of personal vehicles outside of the District is not encouraged. Directors must
have the Chair’s approval prior to using a personal vehicle for official business outside
the boundaries of the District. This includes local conferences covered in Section
4.6, In-State Travel.
If a Director chooses to travel by car or long distance rail rather than by air, the Board
Office staff will follow established guidelines to determine the lowest available flight
cost to and from the destination. If use of a personal vehicle is requested, the
Director is eligible for reimbursement for the cost of mileage up to the maximum
allowable under the Internal Revenue Service guidelines but not to exceed the cost
of air travel to the destination. The cost of the air travel is to be determined by the
Board Office staff prior to the date of travel to determine the amount that may be
reimbursed for mileage. The determination is established by example of other
Director’s airfare for the same trip or by research of the lowest fares. All supporting
documentation must be submitted by the Board Office staff along with the Director’s
expense form.
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement
The standard vehicle mileage allowance is determined annually by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Board Office verifies with the RTD Accounts Payable
Supervisor the most current rates at the start of each calendar year and includes this
amount in each Director’s local and travel expense spreadsheet.
All local mileage incurred by a Director is paid through the local expense cost code
to the Director on all submitted travel expense forms. Round-trip travel to the airport

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

9 of 16

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

taxi, or rental car, in this order of preference. If a Director pays for the transportation
of other Directors or staff, all names are to be documented on the receipt and expense
report for reimbursement.

1.2.A.a

4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations)
The Board Office typically books lodging accommodations via P-Card for each
Director attending an out-of-District event. In the event these fees are not pre-paid,
the Director must submit a copy of the official hotel bill with the expense report when
claiming reimbursement.
The Board Office makes reasonable arrangements at the single occupancy rate for
hotel accommodations in accordance with acceptable standards for that location.
For APTA conferences, hotel reservations cannot be booked until the attendee is
registered for the conference. Directors should inform the Board Office staff in a
timely manner they wish to attend a conference, otherwise the conference hotel
could fill up.
Hotels typically require a personal credit card for the person staying at the hotel for
purpose of incidental expenditures. Arrangements made via RTD P-Card only cover
room and tax. Upon check in, the Directors will need to provide the front desk with
their own personal credit cards for miscellaneous expenses. When checking out,
Directors must ensure that their personal credit cards were not charged for room and
tax.
Note* For Directors using a debit or bank card to cover miscellaneous expenses, the
hotel may place a hold on the card in a set amount for the duration of the stay.
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual cost of lodging, including room
charges and taxes. Charges other than room charges or taxes appearing on the hotel
bill may be reimbursable upon submittal of a completed, signed expense report
accompanied by itemized receipts. Directors must use sound judgment in the
selection of lodging in keeping with the purpose of the travel so as to minimize the
cost to the District. Lodging or hotel accommodations billed to a P-Card require
itemized receipts to match to the actual incurred amount.
When a Director is accompanied by another individual, the District is to be billed only
for the single-occupancy rate for lodging. The Director must pay for the difference
between single- and double-occupancy rate for the room, if applicable.
4.3. Meals
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for daily personal meals and gratuities with
the submittal of an itemized receipt and documentation that identifies the time, place,
and business purpose.
Directors may claim reimbursement for travel expenses, including meals and
gratuities, incurred one day before the start of a conference or one day following a
conference where travel scheduling provisions or same-day flight times are not
available or convenient, such as when a Director would need to fly from Denver to
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

10 of 16

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

locally is included in this expense if agency-issued transit passes are unable to be
used.

1.2.A.a

When attending an out-of-District event or conference for which meals are provided,
Directors are expected to reduce the number of meals for which they intend to be
reimbursed by the number of meals that are provided at the event or conference.
However, a Director is eligible for reimbursement for a meal purchased outside of the
conference if the Director submits an itemized receipt explaining the business purpose
for the meal.
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Miscellaneous expenses such as meal gratuities are to be included with each meal
and indicated on the receipt submitted with the expense report. Reasonable gratuities
for baggage handling at airports or the place of lodging upon arrival and departure
are allowable and must be shown as a separate item under “miscellaneous expense”
on the expense report. Baggage fees paid to airlines for travel must be accompanied
with a receipt. Gratuity for housekeeping during lodging is an allowable expense.
Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for personal calls. Calls for District
business are fully reimbursable as long as documentation related to the person called
and the subject of the call is included with the expense report. A Director who claims
reimbursement for monthly cell phone service may not claim a business call as a
separate, additional expense if the call is also included in the monthly service.
Directors traveling out of the country should coordinate with the Board Office to
determine the most cost-effective means of carrying out RTD-related communications
during the time the Director is traveling.
4.5.

In State Travel

Directors travelling within the state but outside the District to attend seminars,
conferences, or transit-related meetings are eligible for reimbursement for travel
expenses so long as the location is more than two-hours’ driving distance each way
or greater than 160 miles from the point of origin. Covered expenses include
registration fees, lodging, standard mileage, and food when accompanied with valid
itemized receipts and expense reports showing time, place, and purpose. Directors
are not eligible for reimbursement for lodging expenses without the prior approval of
the Chair if the location of an event is within two-hours’ driving distance or less than
160 miles from the point of origin. For additional information regarding in state travel
see section 4.1.4 Personal Vehicles and Travel outside the District other than Air.
(Approved Travel and Local policy, November 20, 2007)
5.0.

Business Communications (cell phone, internet)

Within the first three months after being elected/appointed and subsequently sworn
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

11 of 16

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a conference with a start day of
Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director to arrive in time for the Sunday
meeting start. Directors cannot be reimbursed for any day that they may choose to
go early or stay late for personal reasons. (See Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.)
Directors must provide itemized receipts for incurred travel-related expenses.

in, Directors are eligible for reimbursement for an initial home office setup package.
Eligible equipment includes a smart phone, high-speed internet equipment such as a
cable modem and router, fax machine, and printer. The Director is responsible for
selection, use, ownership, loss, and replacement of all equipment after initial
reimbursement by the District. Directors may opt to purchase the equipment or utilize
RTD-owned equipment. Equipment purchased by Directors and reimbursed as part
of the initial $700 set up fee is considered RTD property. All equipment provided by
the District remains the property of the District and must be returned upon the
Director’s departure from office. RTD-owned equipment is subject to RTD rules for
the use and handling of agency-owned equipment, including but not limited to policies
governing the type of information permitted to be stored or accessed on the computer
or smart phone. The total package selected is subject to the $700 initial setup limit.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 20, 2007)
In the alternative, Directors may use their existing equipment or may acquire their
own equipment for use in conducting their official duties. To be eligible for
reimbursement for recurring IT expenses, a Director must submit on a monthly basis
documentary evidence such as a telephone bill indicating the time, place, amount,
and business purpose, which is sufficient to meet the IRS requirement for time, place
and business purpose for equipment purchase or usage. The first land-line telephone
into a home is considered personal and cannot be reimbursed as a business expense.
Monthly reimbursement claims that are not accompanied by supporting
documentation are not eligible for reimbursement.
RTD IT covers the cost of each Director’s first technical home visit each year, for the
purpose of providing IT consultation and verification that the Director’s personal or
agency-provided hardware and equipment is in good working order. An outside
vendor, rather than an RTD staff member, is responsible for the technical home visit.
6.0.

Publications

Directors are eligible for an annual allowance of up to $95 for local publications.
Directors should identify, on an annual basis, publications to which they subscribe
and submit their subscription costs on their monthly local expense report.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 14, 2006)
7.0.

Conference Registrations

Registration fees for conferences, workshops, or other approved events are typically
pre-paid directly by the Board Office. In circumstances where a Director pays for his
or her own registration fees, the Director is eligible for reimbursement and must
submit with the expense report when claiming reimbursement a receipt or proof of
fee and a copy of the program setting forth any fees for registration.
The Board cannot exceed its budget allocations for conferences, seminars, and other
such events. Out-of-District registration fees for the first two sanctioned events for
each Director are not charged against the Director’s expenses, subject to the

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

12 of 16

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

1.2.A.a

1.2.A.a

limitations indicated below. Local registration fees are charged to the Directors’ local
expenses. The Chair monitors the Board expenditures on a quarterly basis.
Local Conferences/Seminars

Directors are eligible for reimbursement for expenditures or fees incurred while
attending local seminars, technical meetings, or meetings related to professional
development upon submittal of a local expense report along with appropriate receipts.
Such fees are charged to the Director’s local expense budget.
7.2.

Out of Town Conferences

The Chair is responsible for reviewing Directors’ travel authorization requests to
attend out-of-District conferences, such as APTA conferences and Rail~Volution.
Each Director is permitted to attend up to two such sanctioned out-of-District
conferences each year. Budget permitting, the Chair may choose to permit individual
Directors to attend additional transit industry-related conferences. The Board Office
is responsible for registering attending Directors, and the office pays the registration
fees for the first two sanctioned conferences using the office’s general budget rather
than the Directors’ individual travel expense budgets.
8.0.

Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions

The Regional Transportation District encourages development of Directors through
active membership in professional organizations.
Although membership in
professional affiliations can be an indirect benefit to RTD as an organization, the main
benefit is the development of the Director, by allowing the Director to keep abreast
of trends in their transportation or technology, cultivate networks with other
professionals, and develop skills and ideas to become more effective in their policymaking at RTD. Any memberships that are of an extraordinary cost or that require
approval will go before the Executive Committee for approval.
Membership subscriptions in local chambers or approved organizations are processed
through the RTD Public Relations Office. Directors should submit their membership
requests through the Board office who will track and coordinate with the RTD staff
responsible for payment. Organizations must meet the criteria of being transit-related
and/or necessary to the conduct of business and local community involvement.
Membership requests that do not fit this criterion must be approved through the
General Manager’s budget. The Board policy on Organizational Memberships was
passed in August of 2011.
For budgeted events only, such as the Board Member/Board Support conference
hosted by the Board in 2015, the budget allocations for specific events serve as the
official authorization for the Chair to approve. For out-of-District budgeted events
only, the “RTD Travel Request and Authorization” form and the expense report
require approval from the Chair.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

13 of 16

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

7.1.

1.2.A.a

Transit Related Community Events

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary expenses associated
with attending an event for the Director and one guest, along with other approved
attendees as approved by the Chair, so long as the event is transit related. The
expenses of the Director and one guest are paid from the Director’s local expense
fund. The approved attendees will come from the general Board Office budget.
10.0. Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events
Participation in community non-transit related events is supported by RTD with
approval of the benefit to the agency. Such events are essential in getting the
community involved in the mission and vision of RTD. At times the General Manager
or RTD outreach departments purchase a table at a community event and invite
Directors as ambassadors for RTD at no cost to the Director; any other approved
events are paid for out of the Director’s local expense budget. Should a Director
decide to purchase a table for an event in the Director’s community with local
expense funds, any unused seats are to be paid for out of the Director’s local budget
as well.
At no time can a Director’s expense funds or RTD funds be used for any event or
expenditure that is political in nature. For guidance on determining whether an
event or expenditure is political in nature, Directors should consult with RTD
General Counsel.
11.0. Travel Insurance
RTD has in force a special Travel and Accident Policy for Directors while on official
business; therefore, additional travel insurance is not eligible for reimbursement.
12.0. Expense Reports
12.1. Travel Expense Reports
Pursuant to IRS guidelines, a Director must submit a completed expense report to the
Board Office no later than the end of the month following the Director’s return to the
District. (e.g., If the trip was taken in October, the expense report is due no later
than by November 30th). The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend the
provision of travel arrangements for any Director who is delinquent in submitting an
expense report. If extra time is needed to complete the expense report or the Director
has a valid reason for the delay, the Chair should be notified to make the decision to
extend this timeline.
The Board Office processes an expense report for each Director traveling to an outof-District conference or event. In order to provide processing time for the staff to
meet the deadline for submitting the reports to the Chair, the Directors must submit
original copies of all receipts, invoices, travel itineraries, hotel bills, and associated
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

14 of 16

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

9.0.

1.2.A.a

documentation for expense reimbursement. Directors should submit a signed expense
report to the Board Office within two weeks after returning from the trip.

Pursuant to IRS guidelines, in order to receive reimbursement for local expenses, a
Director must submit a completed monthly local expense report to the Board Office
within 90 days of the date of the incurred expense. In the months in which no
expenses are incurred or in which the Director does not wish to claim any expense,
the Director must still submit a signed report for the reporting month with zero
balance.
12.3. Expense Records
The Board Office keeps records of each Director’s submitted local and travel
expenses and provides to the Chair a quarterly summary report of all expenses
incurred by the Directors. The Board Office retains a copy of the report for audit
purposes. The Chair may request a written explanation for any outstanding expense
reports.
13.
Definitions
For purposes of this policy:
a. “Chair” means the Chair of the Board of Directors.
b. “IT expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable to
a Director’s IT expense budget as described in Section 1.0, General
Policy.
c. “Itemized receipt” means a printed receipt or document showing
the cost, time, date, and business purpose of the expense incurred,
along with the name and title of any other person whose individual
expense is also detailed on the receipt or document.
d. “Local expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable
to a Director’s local expense budget as described in Section 1.0,
General Policy.
e. “Out-of-District” means outside of the contiguous Regional
Transportation District and its non-contiguous enclaves.
f. “Travel expense” means an eligible expense attributed or
attributable to a Director’s travel expense budget as described in
Section 1.0, General Policy.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

15 of 16

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

12.2. Local Expense Reports

1.2.A.a

Effective Date:
Revision Date:
Purpose:

RTD Board of Directors
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager for Board of
Directors
TBD
March 26, 2019
This document replaces and updates Regional
Transportation District Policy, Board of Directors
Business and Conference Expenses adopted March 23,
1999.

Attachment: 2019-05-14 Board Expense and Travel Policy - REDLINED (3826 : Expense Policy Amendment)

Document Owner:
Author:

Approval/s (if applicable)

Version
BOD001
BOD002
BOD003

BOD004
BOD005

Date
1999-1021
2001-1114
2007-1120
08/10
2012-0822

BOD006

BOD007
BOD008
BOD009

2016-1129
2019-0326
2019-0514

Change History
Change Definition
Board Travel Policy Dates and Amounts from Amy
Caldwell
Updates & incorporates all related Board Policies and
Guidelines into one document
Updates & incorporates all changes made to the Board
Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement
Policies approved at the 11/20/07 Board Meeting.
Updates to provide summarization of changes

Updates to follow agency guidelines of Travel and
Business expenses directive revised and approved
2013-02-06
Update approved by full Board
Administrative changes and clarifications; addition of
definitions section.
Clarifies the attendance of an invited guest when a
Director cannot attend an event

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

16 of 16

Packet Pg. 21

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: June 5, 2019

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

June 5, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

August 2019 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the August 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting
in an annualized base system cost savings of $856,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new service as changes in the
community warrant and finances allow.
The proposals herein include a mix of service improvements, adjustments and reductions.
Alongside the implementation of the Board adopted G Line Bus Service Plan, these service proposals are
submitted in an effort to maintain the existing transit network in accordance to RTD’s Service Standards
and Policies. Included is a proposal to discontinue service on the Route 33 – Platte Valley, due to low
ridership and replace the fixed route service with the proposed Platte Valley FlexRide. Proposals affecting
the Broomfield, Golden, Superior FlexRides are also submitted in this proposal. Additionally, a number of
service changes aimed at increasing on-time performance and service reliability are also included. We will
monitor customer response to the implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments
and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

Packet Pg. 22

2.12.A

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Four public meetings were conducted between May 27th and June 6th in Broomfield, West Denver and at
the Blake Administration Building Rooms T & D. Comments and further details from these meetings and
the service change website are summarized in Attachment C of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: minor adjustment to downtown routing near Wewatta and Delgany
Streets.
Route 31 - Federal Boulevard: early and late service will be re-routed to 106th/Melody
Route 50/51 – Sheridan/Lakes: discontinue southbound school tripper due to low ridership
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder: minor trip times adjustments added

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 4 – Morrison Road: implement new Saturday service
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: add one trip between 7:30am and 8:00am
Route 120 – 120th Avenue/ Brighton: add Saturday service on this route
Golden FlexRide: retain second bus formerly funded through “buy up”
Platte Valley FlexRide: new service will replace Route 33
Superior FlexRide: adopt formerly grant funded service

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 31 - Federal Boulevard: curtail early and late long pattern service to 112th Ave (FRCC) terminal
Route 33 – Platte Valley: discontinue service, due to low ridership.
Route 228 – Louisville/ Broomfield: remove Flatiron Mall Loop in the northbound direction and
discontinue Saturday service between US36 & Broomfield Station and Flatiron Mall due to low ridership.
Broomfield FlexRide: discontinue the operation of a second vehicle and reduce the FlexRide service area
Route Stampede – CU East Campus: discontinue this service, which will be replaced by service operated
by the University of Colorado

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service Efficiencies:
Route 3L – East Alameda Avenue: add an exception bus stop at Speer Boulevard/Washington Street
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: minor adjustment to downtown routing near Wewatta and Delgany
Streets.
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Boulevard: bus stop consolidation
Route 46 – Dahlia Street: reroute the alignment from Virginia/Colorado Blvd. to Adams Ellsworth
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road: bus stop consolidation
Route 83 - Cherry Creek/ Parker Road: add an exception bus stop at Speer Boulevard/Washington Street
Route 100L – Federal Center/ South Kipling Limited: reschedule trips between 4:00pm-5:30pm

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule
Route 6 - East 6th Avenue
Route 36L – Fort Logan Limited
Route 48 – East 48th Ave/ Commerce City

Packet Pg. 23

2.12.A

Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road
Route 139 – Quincy Avenue
Route 206 – Pearl /Manhattan/ Fairview High School
Route 209 – CU/ Mohawk Drive
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline & US287
Route Flatiron Flyer – Boulder/ Denver
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
E, F and R Lines –Southeast Rail Extension
B and G – Line – Gold Line
Re-instating school trippers on the following services:
Route 1W – West 1st Avenue
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Route 24 – University Blvd.
Route 30L – South Federal Limited
Route 31 – Federal Boulevard
Route 51 – Sheridan
Route 52 – West 52nd/South Bannock
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/ Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Route 206/206F - Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School
Route 208/208F – Iris/Valmont
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
Route SKIP - Broadway
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a base system cost savings of
approximately $856,000.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed August 2019 service changes has
found no disparate impacts.

ATTACHMENTS:


Atch A August 2019 Service Change



Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19



Atch C Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings - August 2019 Service Changes

(DOCX)
(PDF)
(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling

Packet Pg. 24

2.12.A

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 25

2.12.A.a

Atch A – August 2019 Service Change

Local
Route 3L – East Alameda Avenue
Route 83 - Cherry Creek/ Parker Road
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Add an exception bus stop at Speer Boulevard/Washington Street, to serve a developing
high density neighborhood. This change would also provide an alternative to Route 1 on 1st
Avenue. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 4 – Morrison Road
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Implement Saturday service, based on strong weekday midday ridership performance (30
passengers per hour), which will address a life-line weekend neighborhood transportation
gap. Cost impacts anticipated to be an estimated 728 hours and $105,600 annualized.
Route 6 - East 6th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Running time analysis and schedule adjustments, focused on peak periods. No cost impacts
anticipated.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Add one trip and respace all trips from 9th/Clermont to downtown Denver between 7:30am
and 8:30am, in an effort to relieve passenger capacity issues. Additionally, 5 westbound
Route 10 morning trips which currently terminate at 15th Street/Delgany, will instead turn
right from 15th Street onto Wewatta Street, and terminate at Wewatta/17th Street adjacent
to the Wewatta Pavilion at Denver Union Station. Cost impacts anticipated to be an
estimated 255 hours and $21,000 annualized.
Route 31 - Federal Boulevard
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Early morning and late evening trips will be curtailed on the route’s long-distance pattern
from the existing 112th Ave (FRCC) terminal to 106th & Melody. This is due to a request
by Front Range Community College for RTD to vacate its existing on-campus bus terminal
used by route 31, low ridership on the far north segment of the route to FRCC, and the need
for operator restrooms to be open for the route’s late evening trips. (Pending outcome of
operator test bus). No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 33 – Platte Valley
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Discontinue service due to low ridership and replace with new Platte Valley Flex Ride. Due
to low ridership performance, it proposed that this route service be discontinued. Current
ridership performance stands at 10.3 passenger per hour, which falls below the Urban Local

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Atch A August 2019 Service Change (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

Bus

2.12.A.a

Atch A – August 2019 Service Change
ridership standard. This proposal would impact approximately 55 weekday passengers. Cost
savings are anticipated to be an estimated 3,825 hours and $307,000 annualized.

Route 43 – Martin Luther King Boulevard
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
The following bus stops will be eliminated due to low usage and proximity to other bus
stops:
- 31st Ave-Marion St. (eastbound)
- Martin Luther King-Ivy Street (both directions)
No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 46 – Dahlia Street
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
This proposal reroutes the alignment from Virginia/Colorado Blvd., reroute via north on
Colorado to 1st Avenue (east) to Adams/Ellsworth. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 48 – East 48th Ave/ Commerce City
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
The following bus stops will be eliminated due to low usage and proximity to other bus
stops:
Freemont Dr.-Eagle St (westbound)
Revere Pkwy-Briarwood (south/eastbound)
Arapahoe-Kenton (both directions)
Boston–Caley (north/westbound)
8500 block East Arapahoe (westbound)
Arapahoe-Arapahoe Ct (both directions)
7500 block Arapahoe (both directions)
Arapahoe-Albion (eastbound
Broadway-Panama Dr. (both directions also Routes 0 and 0L)
Broadway Bannock (both directions also Routes 0 and 0L)
Littleton Blvd-Elati Way (eastbound)
Littleton Blvd-Foresthill St. (westbound)
Littleton Blvd-Gallup (eastbound)
Littleton Blvd-Hickory (westbound)
No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 100L – Federal Center/ South Kipling Limited

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Atch A August 2019 Service Change (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

Route 36L – Fort Logan Limited
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Running Time analysis due to low on time performance. No cost impacts anticipated.

2.12.A.a

Atch A – August 2019 Service Change

Route 120 – 120th Avenue/ Brighton
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Add Saturday service on this route, operating from 8:00am to 6:00pm, between US36 &
Broomfield Station and Wagon Road Park-n-Ride. Cost impacts are anticipated to be an
estimated 624 hours and $52,000 annualized.
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road
Route 139 – Quincy Avenue
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Schedule adjustments for improved on time performance. No cost impacts anticipated.
Route 206 – Pearl /Manhattan/ Fairview High School
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.
Route 209 – CU/ Mohawk Drive
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/ Broomfield via Baseline & US287
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.
Route 228 – Louisville/ Broomfield
Service Standard type - Suburban Local - (10%-4.7 pass. per hr. / 25%-11.4 pass. per hr.)
Remove Flatiron Mall Loop in the northbound direction, to match loop already having been
removed in the southbound direction, to eliminate current confusion to customers.
Discontinue midday weekday service between US36 & Broomfield Station and Flatiron Mall,
due to low ridership. On Saturday and Sunday, discontinue route south of Flatiron Mall due
to extremely low ridership and reroute to US36 & Flatiron Station. Customers will still be
able to use Route Flatiron Flyer to get between US36 & Broomfield Station and US36 &
Flatiron Mall at a local fare rate. Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated 648 hours
and $54,000 annualized.
Route Stampede – CU East Campus
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Pending an agreement between the RTD and University of Colorado, Boulder, this proposal
seeks to replace RTD service on the Route Stampede with similar service to be operated by

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Atch A August 2019 Service Change (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
The long distance westbound trips to Ken Caryl Ranch, currently leaving CCS at 4:12p and
5:12p, are proposed to be shifted to the existing 4:29p and 5:30p westbound leave times.
This adjustment will help address rider crowding on the short segment between CCS and
Federal Center Station, which exists on the 4.12p and 5.12p westbound trips. No cost
impacts anticipated.

2.12.A.a

Atch A – August 2019 Service Change

Re-instating school trippers on the following services:
Route 1W – West 1st Avenue
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Route 24 – University Blvd.
Route 30L – South Federal Limited
Route 31 – Federal Boulevard
Route 51 – Sheridan
Route 52 – West 52nd/South Bannock
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Route 204 – Table Mesa/Moorhead/North 19th
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/ Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Route 206/206F - Pearl/Manhattan/Fairview High School
Route 208/208F – Iris/Valmont
Route 225 – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
Route SKIP - Broadway
Regional
Route Flatiron Flyer – Boulder/ Denver
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.
Route Y – Lyons/Boulder
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)
Running time adjustments, no cost impacts anticipated.

FlexRide
Broomfield FlexRide
Service Standard type – FlexRide–(10%-2.0 pass. per hr. /25%-2.9 pass. per hr.)
In August 2016, the Broomfield FlexRide expanded the service area and added a 2nd vehicle
which was funded by a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) grant applied for by the
City and County of Broomfield. The grant was for 3 years. In 2015 the Flex Ride had
averaged 4.0 boardings per hour operating with one bus and a small service area. The grant
doubled the FlexRide service area. The average boardings per hour from Aug 16-Feb 19
has been 2.9 boardings per hour. Recommendation is to discontinue the 2nd vehicle and
reduce the FlexRide service area to operate with one vehicle. Recommended service area
will have the FlexRide east boundary at Sheridan. Service times for the reduced area will
continue to be 5:30am – 7:00pm. The City and County of Broomfield applied for a new
grant to keep the expanded service area and the 2nd vehicle. If this grant is approved prior

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Atch A August 2019 Service Change (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

the University of Colorado-Boulder. Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated 11,200
hours and $1,133,000 annualized.

2.12.A.a

Atch A – August 2019 Service Change

Golden FlexRide
Service Standard type – FlexRide–(10%-2.0 pass. per hr. /25%-2.9 pass. per hr.)
In August 2017, the RTD and the City of Golden agreed to a Cost Share Agreement in which
the city agreed to pay for 1 additional vehicle on the Golden FlexRide route. Prior to this
agreement, the RTD FlexRide operated the flex route every 30 minutes with 1 bus. The 2nd
bus on the FlexRide route has the service at every 15 minutes. There are 2 other buses that
operate the “on demand” service in Golden. The boardings per hour for 2018 was at 6.2
boardings per hour. Recommendation is to keep the 2nd bus on the FlexRide route.
Anticipated cost impacts are estimated to be $132,677 including fuel.

Superior FlexRide
Service Standard type – FlexRide–(10%-2.0 pass. per hr. /25%-2.9 pass. per hr.)
In August 2016, the Superior FlexRide began service. The FlexRide was funded by a
Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) grant applied for by the Town of Superior. The
grant was for 3 years. The average boardings per hour from Aug 16-Feb 19 has been 3.4
boardings per hour. Recommendation is to keep the Superior FlexRide. Anticipated cost
impacts are estimated to be $162,830 including fuel.
Platte Valley FlexRide
Service Standard type – FlexRide–(10%-2.0 pass. per hr. /25%-2.9 pass. per hr.)
FlexRide service will replace Route 33 – Platte Valley. Trips will match the Route 33 with
the same times and alignment except that the route will use Lipan rather than Kalamath.
Service will be operated with a small, 14 seat, shuttle type bus. Anticipated cost impacts
are estimated to be $145,000 annualized, including fuel.

Rail
Light Rail
E, F and R Lines
Minor schedule adjustments
Commuter Rail
B and G – Line
Minor schedule adjustments

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Atch A August 2019 Service Change (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

to the August Service Change implementation, this recommendation will be pulled. No cost
impacts are anticipated for this proposal.

Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19

2.12.A.b

JEFFERS (t N
COUNTY COLORADO

Board of County Commissioners
Casey Tighe District No. 2
Lesley Dahlkemper, District No. 3

Board of County Commissioners

Regional Transportation District (RTD)
Attn: Customer Care Division
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202

To Whom It May Concern:
As staunch supporters of enhanced transit in the Denver Metropolitan area. And, like RTD, as
the Board of County Commissioners move into our own 2020 budget discussions and the
impacts facing our County, we understand the challenges that lay ahead for Boards such as
yourself as you look at the areas you serve.
However, like the City of Golden, there is a concern with the adjustment to fare structure and
proposed service cuts for the W Line and support Golden ' s Resolution No. 2658: A Resolution
of the City Council of the City of Golden Recommending Adjustments to Regional
Transportation District Fare Structure and Service Cuts Affecting the W Rail Line.
As you are aware, the W Line terminates at the Jefferson County Government Center, which is a
location where citizens access a wide range of government services. RTD chose to make this
stop a regional, the only one on the W Line, rather than a local stop, resulting in increased fares
for many of the citizens of our community that can least afford to pay higher rates.
We respectfully ask that you reconsider the decision to make the Jefferson County Government
Center a regional stop and continue to engage the community in identifying ways to increase
ridership and serve the community.

CT/LD/dlc
enclosure

100 Jefferson County Parkway, Golden, Colorado 80419
303.271 .8525 I jeffco.us

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19 (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

March 25, 2019

2.12.A.b

~Golden

91110'" ST. GOLDEN. CO 80401
TEL: 303-384-8000
FAX: 303-384-8001
WWW.CITYOFGOLDEN.NET

Attachment: Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19 (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

~ Cityof

Council Memorandum
To:

The Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:

Steve Glueck, Director of Community and Economic Development

Through:

Jason T Slowinski, City Manager

Date:

February 19, 2019

Re:

May 2019 RTD Service Change Recommendations for W Line

Purpose of Agenda Item: This item is presented to Council as follow-up to
Council's discussions over the past month regarding potential May 2019 service
changes by the Regional Transportation District (RTD) . The item includes a draft Council
resolution for discussion on February 28th and repeats some previously presented
background material.

Background: RTD evaluates its overall service plan for busses and rail three times a
year. This effort is intended to match the level of service provided within the district to
available resources. Potential service enhancements or reductions are identified and
presented to the public in a series of public meetings, prior to board consideration and
action . In the past, the City of Golden has requested adjustments to the RTD
recommendations, most recently in August 2017 to request that RTD hold off on
reducing the frequency of trains for non-peak (mid-day) hours rail service from 15 minute
to 30 minute frequency. Based in part on our request RTD did not reduce "mid-day"
weekday or Saturday service frequency in those changes that went into effect in January
2018.
On January 19th, 2019, Council was notified by the local RTD Director that a further
Saturday service reduction is under consideration. If enacted , this service reduction
would change the frequency of Saturday "daytime" service from every 15 minutes to
every 30 minutes to match Saturday evening and Sunday all day service. RTD staff
estimates that this service reduction would save approximately $134,000 a year based
upon the reduction from 7 all day trains to six. The recommendation is based upon
Saturday ridership levels below RTD standards.
City Council discussed the infomiation from RTD on January 241h and provided direction
to staff. The primary recommendation was that Council felt a meeting in Golden,
attended. by RTD representatives, would be necessary in order to effectively
communicate about the proposed changes, as well as other local issues related to the
RTD system and operations. The other topics discussed that evening included Golden's

Packet Pg. 32

2.12.A.b

on-going support for transit mobility options and a serious concern about the existing
fare structure and map that places the W Line end of line station just outside the
boundary of having a trip downtown from this station be a "local" fare. The significant
price differential between a local fare at $3.00 and the current "regional" fare of $5.25 for
a trip to downtown Denver is a significant deterrent to ridership.

Attachment: Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19 (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

Following that January 24th, 2019 Council discussion , a community meeting was
scheduled and held on February 13th in City Council Chambers. The meeting was
attended by several staff and board members from RTD, all of City Council, and a
number of Golden citizens. Each Councilor commented on the record for RTD in support
of changing the fare structure and/or map, in opposition to the Saturday cuts, and in
continued support of transit alternatives.

Alternatives: As a result of the February 13th community meeting and City Council
comments, the attached draft resolution has been prepared for Council discussion and
potential action. Council's meeting comments are already on the record but Council may
wish to take the more formal step of adopting a resolution.

Recommendations: Staff recommends that City Council discuss the draft resolution
and determine whether to use the resolution as a more formal response to RTD before
the RTD board's official discussion of the topic on March 25th at 5:30 PM at RTD offices.
Public comment will be accepted at that time.
Comments can also be submitted by email at this web page http://www.rtddenver.com/ServiceChanges.shtml .
Attachment:

Draft Resolution 2568

• Page2

Packet Pg. 33

2.12.A.b

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
GOLDEN RECOMMENDING ADJUSTMENTS TO REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT FARE STRUCTURE AND
SERVICE CUTS AFFECTING THEW RAIL LINE
WHEREAS,
the City of Golden and its residents and businesses contribute significant amounts
of tax dollar resources to the Regional Transportation District (RTD) system; and
WHEREAS,
the City of Golden is a staunch supporter of enhanced transit in the Denver
Metropolitan area; and
WHEREAS,
the City of Golden, with the Colorado School of Mines, individually contributed
local funds to the 2013 establishment of the combination Call and Ride/Flex Route service at the end of
line station ofthe W Rail Line, which service is one of the most successful elements ofRTD' s Call and
Ride program; and
WHEREAS,
the City of Golden, with the Colorado School of Mines and Jefferson County, are
currently funding a two year pilot program to add an additional Flex Route bus daily, so that the flex route
bus matches the 15 minute headways of the W Line and thereby further enhance ridership of both services
by addressing first and last mile challenges; and
WHEREAS,
Light Rail service to the W Line station in Golden is already burdened by the fare
structure which requires a regional fare from this station to downtown Denver, and therefore should not be
further discouraged by service reductions; and
WHEREAS,
the Golden City Council recognizes the budget constraints faced by the RTD
board, and wishes to make constructive recommendations to both improve system usage and manage costs,
as well as increase local marketing efforts and ridership incentives.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GOLDEN,
COLORADO
The Golden City Council hereby recommends that the Regional Transportation District Board of
Directors commit to give the most serious consideration to the below recommendations that provide the
opportunity to enhance W Line usage as well as improving local transit for our committed community.
a.

Commit to consider the long-term ridership, system operations, and fiscal implications of
adjusting the fare structure such that the W Line end of line station at the Jefferson County
Government Center is in fare zone B, under the current fare structure. In addition, City Council
urges RTD to take the opportunity, of more overall system transit lines being operational, to
review the entire fare structure related to station locations.

b.

Delay for an additional year those proposed W Line service cuts related to reduction of
headways in Saturday periods currently scheduled for fifteen (15) minute headways in order to
continue to seek ways to boost weekend ridership to match the growth in weekday ridership.

c.

In conjunction with these two recommendations, City Council commits to continue to seek
ways to promote and encourage transit use for the benefit of the community and the entire
region.

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19 (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

RESOLUTION NO. 2658

2.12.A.b
.,

Resolution No. 2658
Page 2

Attachment: Atch B Jefferson County and Golden Letters 04.22.19 (3859 : August 2019 Service Changes)

Adopted the _ _ day of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _, 2019.

Marjorie N. Sloan
Mayor
ATTEST:

Monica S. Mendoza, CMC
City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

David S. Williamson
City Attorney

Packet Pg. 35

2.12.A.c

August 2019 Service Changes
Public Meeting Comments
Wednesday, May 29, 2019
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
12:00 NOON
Staff in attendance included Jessie Carter, Jeff Dunning, Cooper Langdon, Dan Menter, Brian
Matthews, Pat Heye, Sage Thornbrugh, Miguel Aguilar, Maux Sullivan and Tegan Rice. There were
additional RTD staff member from the Communications Department including Laurie Huff,
Christina Zazueta and Lisa Trujillo. There were 6 members from the public in attendance, along
with Director Peggy Catlin with the RTD Board.
Dianne Lyons - was complimentary of the Flex Ride services that connect to the W Line. Says
they work much better than the Call N Rides used to. She was happy that the G Line was finally
open, but disappointed that it doesn’t connect to the Ward Road Park N Ride. Was interested in
further details about the discount program and appreciative of the update that was given during
the beginning of the meeting. Is especially interested as her son is currently paying a lot of money
for a monthly pass and so that program could really help once implemented. Wanted further
details about exactly how it will be implemented. Was wondering why RTD implemented
commuter rail and didn’t just stick to Light Rail. She really likes the Light Rail and bus service and
doesn’t understand why RTD “switched” to commuter rail. She later made a comment based on
another attendees statements that there should be an educational pamphlet or something to
teach people how to use RTD Next Ride and My Stop because they’re wonderful services and
really help people to know when the bus will get there so they know if it’s delayed or not.
Thomas Quinlan - appreciated the disability card he has through RTD to get a discounted fare.
He relies on RTD services a lot. Wanted to know what stops were being eliminated from the 66
for stop consolidation. Was especially concerned about the stop on Panama Drive that is proposed
to be removed as he uses that stop frequently. Discussed his concerns with buses not being on
time or not even showing up at all. He can’t rely on the bus due to these issues. He also discussed
his displeasure with people getting on the bus that smell like marijuana because he said it causes
him to have a seizure due to a traumatic brain injury he sustained.
Berda Steen - said she attended the meeting because she wanted further details about the
discount program and when exactly it would be implemented. She also expressed her concern
about the 15 bus stop on 15th between Stout and California. She said that frequently there are
cars parked there or in the way of the bus stop, so the bus is unable to pull all the way to the
curb to let passengers off. She was concerned that this is unsafe and especially difficult for those
with limited mobility.
Paolo Salazano - had several concerns. Expressed that he does not believe our on-time
performance data as it is inconsistent with his experience. Wanted to see more detailed report of
the data. It was mentioned that he could get that information via the quarterly reports which are
online. He mentioned that both bus and rail are unreliable and was concerned about the number
of dropped bus trips. He said that only 1/3 of the trips he takes are on-time and cited a recent

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Atch C Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings - August 2019 Service Changes (3859 : August 2019

Atch C – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings

2.12.A.c

Streetsblog article that discussed the rail on-time performance. He also wanted to know what
impact the lawsuit between RTD and DTO will have on the rest of RTD service. Wanted to know
why there is still a driver shortage and what RTD is doing to address on-time performance.
Carol Streamer - was concerned that there aren’t enough Route 11 stops on Mississippi.
Mentioned there used to be one near the shopping center and IHOP. Staff said that no stops have
been removed. Maybe one of the stop signs is missing that staff will look into that.
Samantha Garrett - had questions about the 36L and its reliability. Says it’s either late or early
and she ends up waiting a while for the next bus. Stated that there should be more frequent
service and that it should be more reliable. Expressed interest in getting more involved to do what
she can to help make things better.
Wednesday, May 29th, 2019
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6pm
Staff in attendance included David Menter, Pat Heye, and Christina Zazueta. There were nine
members from the public in attendance.
Miriam Garcia (interpreted by friend Andrea Martinez) - requested that the current route
31L make a better connection with the B-Line and stated that the route 31L should be retained
even in the August runboard.
Staff explained that in August, as part of the 2016 board-approved G-Line integrated bus and rail
plan that route #31L would be discontinued. Staff explained that for customers desiring to travel
to/from points along north along Pecos, that they could transfer from bus route #19 at the Pecos
Junction Station and take either the B or the G Line to reach DUS. For riders desiring to travel
to/from points along north Federal, they could transfer from bus route #31 at the Clear Creek
Federal Station and take the G Line to reach DUS. In addition, bus routes #19 and #31 would
also be pulling into the Stations to make good connections. Even though a transfer would be
involved, staff explained that riders would have far more trips and times to choose from – as
opposed to having just the 3 morning and 3 afternoon trips currently offered by the 31L.
Laura Gallegos - also asked that Route 31L be retained.
Rocio Aguilar - also asked that Route 31L be retained.
Elmer Smith Jr. - asked that Route 43 retain the bus stops currently proposed for elimination
on Martin Luther King Blvd & Ivy. He stated that he uses the 43 daily and has trouble walking.
He said the bus stops at Ivy are very close to his home.
Glenda Bartels - was concerned about the elimination of Route 33. Staff explained details of
the new Flex-Ride service that would take its place.

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Atch C Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings - August 2019 Service Changes (3859 : August 2019

Atch C – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings

2.12.A.c

Carol Young - expressed a concern and a question about why the G-Line bus changes weren’t
implemented when the G-Line started. Staff explained that RTD wanted to open the G-Line just
as soon as possible following final regulatory approvals, and the final rail approvals did not come
in time to be able to line up with the May bus runboard. The Commenter also complained that
the RTD ‘NEXT RIDE’ app regularly does not work and gives false info. It regularly says ‘no bus
on route’. In addition, the Commenter complained that bus stops were too dark and needed
night-time street lighting or bus stop lighting along 26th Avenue in Wheat Ridge and Edgewater.
Commenter also said that the bus stop on 26th Ave, Eb, at Benton was unsafe, it was on too
narrow of a sidewalk, and needed to be improved. Commenter also complained that MALL
SHUTTLES ‘bunch-up’ too often and that they should be more actively managed. She said she
ended-up walking the entire distance of the MALL at rush hour recently before a shuttle appeared,
and then there were 4 in a row travelling nose-to-tail.
Ethel Williams - wanted to know why Route 31 would not always terminate at FRCC. Staff
explained that after hours Route 31 would operate as far north as 104th Ave. Staff explained the
hours of FRCC (it closes at 10p weekdays and 5p on weekends) and that FRCC administrators
were increasingly concerned with campus security. She also stated that the bus stop on
Broadway, Sb, at 6th Ave needed night-time street lighting or bus stop lighting.
Gordon D. - expressed a concern and a question about bus on-time performance (OTP). RTD
staff explained how OTP data is captured by the fleet and that staff looked at performance reports
monthly and that those reports lead to some action to help improve OTP at most every runboard
change. For example, in the August runboard, there are at least 7 routes that have running time
adjustments noted in the flyers, and these changes are intended to help adjust on-time
performance. Stop reductions, as proposed by route 66 in the August runboard, is another way
staff is working to help improve bus route reliability and speed service. Gordon also complained
that RTD’s Nest Ride app often provides erroneous information and that Google maps transit
information is better. Gordon also complained that operator turnover seemed especially high on
the FF4, and that operators needed more training about the routes and route turns they were
driving. FF4 operators regularly pass up riders at the Wewatta/Delgany & Park Ave bus stop.

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Atch C Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings - August 2019 Service Changes (3859 : August 2019

Atch C – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date:

From:

Bob Broom, General Manager Performance &
Oversight Committee

GM

Date:

May 30, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core &
Task Goals

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2020 as defined in the attached General
Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.
BACKGROUND
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee works with the General
Manager to enhance its oversight responsibilities for the General Manager’s performance and to develop
processes that are approved by the full Board and are transparent to the public.
On July 20, 2010, the Board formalized and approved the goal setting process for the General Manager.
That process defines the steps the Board will follow in establishing the annual goals for the General
Manager. Beginning in 2011, these goals include core and task goals. Core goals are based on the
General Manager’s job description and are generally considered part of the ongoing responsibilities of the
General Manager. The task goals are a compilation of the priorities from the annual Joint Board and
Staff Advance Planning Session that occurs in the first quarter of the year.
One of the steps in the process is to formalize the General Manager’s annual goals consistent with the
RTD employee evaluation process as well as elements of the approved GM contract approved in 2018.
This action item formalizes that process.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair and the full committee
have reviewed the 2020 core and task goals with the General Manager and approved the goals as
amended at the June 4, 2019 GMOC committee. This approval will move to the June 11, 2019 Finance,
Administration & Audit Committee and then to the full Board for final approval on June 18, 2019.
DISCUSSION
Please refer to the attached General Manager Performance Evaluation memo which identifies the five
core goals for 2020 and the 5 task goals for 2020. The attached General Manager Tactical Plan for
2020 is submitted as a supplement to this document.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
No financial impact in approving the 2020 Goals.

Packet Pg. 39

2.12.B

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action for approval of the General Manager’s 2020 goals. This
approval completes the formalized process as approved by the Board members for goal setting.
2. Do not accept this recommended action. Work with the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee and the General Manager to amend the 2020 goals. This
will significantly delay the schedule established for the approval of the goals.
3. Do nothing. Accept the risk and consequences of not complying with the State Auditor’s
recommendation for a clear, documented and timely process.
Related Board Policies: Board Policy on Goal Setting for the General Manager (approved 7/20/10)
Approval of 2010 General Manager’s Goals (approved 10/26/10)
Board Policy on General Manager Evaluation Process (approved 7/20/10)

ATTACHMENTS:


2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN



2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 40

To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date:

May 22, 2019

Re:

Proposed Core and Task Goals for 2020

This memo presents the proposed 2020 GM core and task goals in a memo, bullet point
format. For each core and task goal, the overall goal is listed followed by the criteria for
needs improvement, achieved goal, and exceeded expectations. The task goals are based
on the five strategic priorities from the 2019 Board/Senior Leadership Team retreat in
March 2019, the subsequent 2020 tactical plan, and the Board input/comments received
from the Board at the April 23 Tactical Plan Study Session presentation. Fiscal
sustainability applies to all goals. A common theme regarding the Board comments were
around the Address Transit Equity strategic priority including service coverage and
demographics. There are a number of specific goals to address these comments under
the strategic priorities of Address Transit Equity, Enhance Current and Future
Transportation Methods, and Increase Ridership. The proposed core and task goals will
be discussed at the May 14, 2019 GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
meeting. This memo includes agreed upon changes as discussed at the May 14, 2019 GM
Oversight and Performance Management Committee meeting.
Proposed Core and Task Goals for 2020
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services: Attain 80%
performance measures
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:





Achieve at least 70% of RTD Board-approved performance measures; OR
Create, collaborate, explain, and implement unincorporated/urban local/suburban
local area service standards; OR
Present a plan to maintain existing service levels; OR
Monitor DTP performance and compliance and report this information to the Board.

Achieved Goal




Achieves 80% of RTD Board-approved performance measures; AND
Creates, collaborates, explains, and implements unincorporated/urban/suburban
local area service standards; AND
Presents a plan to not significantly reduce service levels; AND

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a



Monitors DTP performance and compliance and reports this information to the
Board.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:



Achieves 90% or more of RTD Board-approved performance measures; OR
Provides outstanding and noteworthy service for major or unscheduled RTDsupported special events, conventions, 16th Street Mall events, BroncosRide, etc.,
in addition to providing normally scheduled service.

Core Goal #2 - Strong & Ethical Leadership: Articulates vision, forms cohesive
team, regular team-building sessions, builds and maintains effective executive
team, and handles conflict.
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:








Provide an organizational vision that is understood or achieved; OR
Communicate on a regular basis with Senior Leaders and employees; OR
Form a cohesive SLT and employee team as evident through inter-departmental
coordination; OR
Conduct regularly scheduled team-building sessions w/the Board and SLT; OR
Build an effective executive team; OR
Adhere to the District's Code of Ethics; OR
Oversee and ensure the District's performance management/evaluation program.

Achieved Goal









Provides an organizational vision that is understood and achieved; AND
Communicates on a regular basis with the SLT and employees; AND
Forms a cohesive SLT and employee team as evident through inter-departmental
coordination; AND
Conducts scheduled team-building sessions w/the Board and SLT; AND
Builds and maintains an effective executive team; AND
Is flexible and adaptable in dealings with others; AND
Adheres to the District's Code of Ethics; AND
Oversees and ensures the success of RTD's performance management program.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:


Displays exceptional leadership skills as evident by the agency being called upon
to address national transportation industry issues (examples may include
delivering presentations to national audiences); OR

Page |2

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a



Recognized both locally and nationally as being clear and transparent in agency
operations (examples may include local or national articles acknowledging RTD, or
delivering presentations to national audiences).

Core Goal #3 - Strong Financial Management: Oversees operating and
FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal reporting,
and development of financing plans for future projects.
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:





Adequately oversee the budgeting, accounting, payroll, grants administration,
debt, investments, performance reporting, revenue and ridership reporting, all
FasTracks-related finance operations; OR
Ensure compliance with local, state and federal reporting requirements for
budgets, audits and other financial documents; OR
Oversee the development of the RTD annual budget and financing plans for future
projects.

Achieved Goal





Oversees the budgeting, accounting, payroll, grants administration, debt,
investments, performance reporting, revenue and ridership reporting, and all
FasTracks-related finance operations, leading to a balanced budget; AND
GM Ensures compliance with local, state and federal reporting requirements for
budgets, audits and other financial documents; AND
Oversees the development of the RTD annual budget and financing plans for future
projects.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:





Financing plans are creative to the point they save the District substantial funds;
OR
Aggressive pursuit of grants and/or alternative financing leads to additional
funding for District's capital programs and/or a reduction in otherwise anticipated
service reductions; OR
Partners with another organization to realize funding or savings above what RTD
could have achieved independently.

Page |3

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

Core Goal #4 -Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)/ Affirmative
Action (AA)/ Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) / Small Business
Enterprise (SBE): As written in Achieved Goal Criteria
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:







Ensure resolution of EEO-related concerns/complaints in a timely manner; OR
Consider Affirmative Action goals in applicable hiring decisions; OR
Consider utilization of DBE companies in applicable purchasing decisions; OR
Schedule appropriate staff to attend EEO/AA/DBE training and/or DBE events; OR
Attend assigned/required EEO/AA/DBE events; OR
Complete FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas as adequate.

Achieved Goal







Ensures resolution of EEO-related concerns/complaints in a timely manner; AND
Includes AA goal consideration in applicable hiring decisions; AND
Considers utilization of DBE companies in applicable purchasing decisions; AND
Schedules appropriate staff to participate in EEO/AA/DBE training and/or DBE
events; AND
Attends RTD's DBE events and related Chamber events; AND
FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas are adequate.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets all Achieved Goal criteria, PLUS one of the following:








The District is lauded both locally and nationally for its SBE/DBE/WIN Programs
(examples may include articles in national publications or presenting to national
audiences); OR
Base system and FasTracks DBE/SBE/WIN goals are achieved; OR
Innovative programs in this area are pursued and implemented; OR
FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas are exceptional; OR
Recognizing DBE/SBE firms for showing annual improvement in terms of revenue
growth, capacity building, and prime contracts; OR
Subject to Board approval and within applicable law and FTA
requirements/guidance documents, implements efforts to enhance DBE/SBE
companies’ ability to build capacity and prime contracts.

Page |4

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

Core Goal #5 - Effective Communications & Community Outreach: Keeps Board
informed, periodically meets with Board members, delivers presentations in
local and national venues, and continues public information/ public relations
planning and implementation
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:






Keep Board informed about Board-determined pertinent issues, with regard to the
operation of the District; OR
Proactively and periodically meet with Board member to identify, confirm, and
address priorities; OR
Deliver presentations in local and national venues; OR
Meet with regional leaders for the benefit of the District; OR
Continue Public Information/Public Relations planning and implementation.

Achieved Goal






Keeps Board informed about Board-determined pertinent issues; AND
Meets periodically with Board member to identify, confirm, and address priorities;
AND
Delivers presentations in local and national venues; AND
Meets with regional leaders; AND
Continues Public Information/Public Relations planning and implementation.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets all Achieved Goal criteria, PLUS any one of the following:




The District is lauded both locally and nationally for its increased positive visibility
and reputation (examples may include articles in national publications or
presenting to national audiences; winning a national award such as APTA
AdWheels); OR
General Manager and Communications conducts 2 or more briefings to the public
such briefings to occur at varied times and days, for example weekday evening
and Saturday daytime (briefings could be community updates and GM telephone
town halls).

Page |5

Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

Task Goals
Task Goal #1 – Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/Collaboration
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:









Communicate in a proactive and transparent manner through the use of a
communications work plan for events, developments, and issues to assure
audiences are notified in a timely and proactive manner; OR
Develop topic-area or issue-specific key messages and fact sheets; OR
Refresh Director/District profiles; OR
Hold one community engagement and listening opportunity per Director district
with Director input; OR
Hold regional PIO briefings; OR
Establish an RTD newsroom utilizing blog, video news releases, podcasts, thought
leadership articles and social media; OR
Develop a Rapid Response Plan for emerging news; OR
Hold periodic media visits.

Achieved Goal









Communicate in a proactive and transparent manner through the use of a
communications work plan for events, developments, and issues to assure
audiences are notified in a timely and proactive manner; AND
Develop topic-area or issue-specific key messages and fact sheets; AND
Refresh Director/District profiles; AND
Hold one community engagement and listening opportunity per Director district
with Director input; AND
Hold regional PIO briefings; AND
Establish an RTD newsroom utilizing blog, video news releases, podcasts, thought
leadership articles and social media; AND
Develop a Rapid Response Plan for emerging news; AND
Hold periodic media visits.

Exceeded expectations




Redesign website to enhance navigation and availability of most relevant customer
agency information; OR
Write quarterly industry-related thought leadership articles; OR
Enhance Rider Alerts to include more detailed/route-specific information.

Page |6

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

Task Goal #2 – Address Transit Equity
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:








Evaluate transportation options or alternatives to fixed route service in
demographic and geographic areas that do not support fixed route service
according to service standards; OR
Explore strategies and options for FasTracks unfunded corridors; OR
Develop an equity training program to foster an inclusive environment for the
public and employees, and initiate training with executive level employees; OR
Develop an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework that will establish a policy and
set of practices that seek to include and consult the public; OR
Convene an Internal Equity Working Group representing all departments focused
on identifying and responding to opportunities to promote equitable transit; OR
Develop a comprehensive safety and security community relations plan, and hold
community meetings regarding safety and security.

Achieved Goal








Evaluate transportation options or alternatives to fixed route service in
demographic and geographic areas that do not support fixed route service
according to service standards; AND
Explore strategies and options for FasTracks unfunded corridors; AND
Develop an equity training program to foster an inclusive environment for the
public and employees, and initiate training with executive level employees; AND
Develop an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework that will establish a policy and
set of practices that seek to include and consult the public; AND
Convene an Internal Equity Working Group representing all departments focused
on identifying and responding to opportunities to promote equitable transit; AND
Develop a comprehensive safety and security community relations plan, and hold
community meetings regarding safety and security.

Exceeded expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:



Implement a transportation option or alternative to fixed route service pilot project
in an area not served by fixed route service; OR
Obtains grant or other funding/partnership arrangement to initiate or implement
an alternative to fixed route service pilot project.

Task Goal #3 – Enhance Current and Future Transportation Methods
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:

Page |7

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a










Present a Bus Stop Consolidation opportunity to the public and Board of Directors;
OR
Present at least two Mobility Choice tactical action item progress reports to the
Board; OR
Identify and present at least one FlexRide demonstration project, OR
Makes progress toward implementation of an additional Transit Priority project, for
example digital short range communication on Federal Blvd.; OR
Initiate the development of specifications for procurement of VW settlementfunded electric buses and charging station infrastructure; OR
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator and
Maintenance employee headcounts; OR
Implement at least one of the projects identified in the First and Final Mile or
Mobility Hub Guideline Plans; OR
Accomplish significant engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp Plan including:
at least four Board updates, four meetings of the T2 Advisory Committee, eight
meetings of the T2 Working Group and has public/stakeholder engagement
meetings.

Achieved Goal









Present a Bus Stop Consolidation opportunity to the public and Board of Directors;
AND
Present at least two Mobility Choice tactical action item progress reports to the
Board; AND
Identifies and presents at least one FlexRide demonstration project, AND
Makes progress toward implementation of an additional Transit Priority project, for
example digital short range communication on Federal Blvd.; AND
Initiate the development of specifications for procurement of VW settlementfunded electric buses and charging station infrastructure; AND
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator and
Maintenance employee headcounts; AND
Implements at least one of the projects identified in the First and Final Mile or
Mobility Hub Guideline Plans; AND
Accomplishes significant engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp Plan
including: at least four Board updates, four meetings of the T2 Advisory
Committee, eight meetings of the T2 Working Group and has public/stakeholder
engagement meetings.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:






Achieves 90% bus operator headcount; OR
Meets 95% bus maintainer headcount; OR
Achieves 90% LRV operator headcount; OR
Meets 95% LRV electro-mechanic headcount; OR
Mandating reduces by 10% from 2019 levels; OR

Page |8

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a





Receives a new capital grant award to advance a FasTracks unfunded corridor, or
advance a mobility option; OR
Implement a Mobility Choice tactical action item; OR
Develops a plan to advance one of the FasTracks unfunded corridors.

Task Goal #4 – Strengthen Safety and Security
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:










Analyze employee injury data to prioritize actions for prevention; OR
Create an RTD wide Safety Risk Register; OR
Create SMS dashboard for tracking progress on initiatives and both leading and
lagging indicators; OR
Implement a Bus Operations safety audit process in 2020 similar to that of light
rail; OR
Establish a Security & Safety Continuous Improvement Committee, that includes
Union representatives, security team members and RTD management; OR
Continue the semiannual “Security Roadshow” and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions, share our security efforts, explain the employee’s role in reporting
and solicit feedback; OR
Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators and security officers with
regular training and bulletins; OR
Hold monthly meetings of Cybersecurity staff with the GM and CEO; OR
Increase Transit Watch downloads by 10% in 2020 over 2019.

Achieved Goal










Analyze employee injury data to prioritize actions for prevention; AND
Create an RTD wide Safety Risk Register; AND
Create SMS dashboard for tracking progress on initiatives and both leading and
lagging indicators; AND
Implement a Bus Operations safety audit process in 2020 similar to that of light
rail; AND
Establish a Security & Safety Continuous Improvement Committee, that includes
Union representatives, security team members and RTD management; AND
Continue the semiannual “Security Roadshow” and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions, share our security efforts, explain the employee’s role in reporting
and solicit feedback; AND
Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators and security officers with
regular training and bulletins; AND
Hold monthly meetings of Cybersecurity staff with the GM and CEO; AND
Increase Transit Watch downloads by 10% in 2020 over 2019

Exceeded expectations


Meet with the ATU Executive Board quarterly to discuss SMS progress, programs,
and receive feedback; OR
Page |9

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a




Develop a general safety training matrix for all employees, in each area, Bus Ops,
Rail Ops, Maintenance (Rail and Bus), and Facility Maintenance, to include all
Divisions/Functional groups; OR
Establish Audit protocol for Commuter Rail and initiate audit process.

Task Goal #5 – Increase Ridership
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:









Identify and evaluate barriers to ridership on RTD services through rider and nonrider surveys; OR
Complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD’s services through the T2 plan
by the end of 2020; OR
Establish new service by opening the N Line; OR
Optimize service on underperforming routes through recommendations to the
Board via the service change/run board process; OR
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator headcount;
OR
Prepare for and initiate Collective Bargaining Agreement approach, Fall of 2020;
OR
Continue to explore new partnership with public and private partners to improve
trip planning and ticketing options; OR
Work on implementation of the new account based ticketing system and provide
progress reports to the Board.

Achieved Goal









Identify and evaluate barriers to ridership on RTD services through rider and nonrider surveys; AND
Complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD’s services through the T2 plan
by the end of 2020; AND
Establish new service by opening the N Line; AND
Optimize service on underperforming routes through recommendations to the
Board via the service change/run board process; AND
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator headcount;
AND
Prepare for and initiate Collective Bargaining Agreement approach, Fall of 2020;
AND
Continue to explore new partnership with public and private partners to improve
trip planning and ticketing options; AND
Work on implementation of the new account based ticketing system and provide
progress reports to the Board.

P a g e | 10

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:





Ridership exceeds budgeted level; OR
Evaluate relevant information, such as the fare structure modeling and data from
the Pass Program Working Group, to determine what fiscally sustainable possible
changes to fare or structure may positively impact ridership, and devise a proposed
pilot project to evaluate the effectiveness of any such ideas proposed; OR
Evaluate analytic data such as area-wide cell phone usage to determine potential
ridership pattern needs and devise a proposed pilot project to evaluate the
effectiveness of basing routing on such new data analysis.

P a g e | 11

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - CLEAN (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.a

To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date:

May 228June 4, 2019

Re:

Proposed Core and Task Goals for 2020

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

This memo presents the proposed 2020 GM core and task goals in a memo, bullet point
format. For each core and task goal, the overall goal is listed followed by the criteria for
needs improvement, achieved goal, and exceeded expectations. The task goals are based
on the five strategic priorities from the 2019 Board/Senior Leadership Team retreat in
March 2019, the subsequent 2020 tactical plan, and the Board input/comments received
from the Board at the April 23 Tactical Plan Study Session presentation. Fiscal
sustainability applies to all goals. A common theme regarding the Board comments were
around the Address Transit Equity strategic priority including service coverage and
demographics. There are a number of specific goals to address these comments under
the strategic priorities of Address Transit Equity, Enhance Current and Future
Transportation Methods, and Increase Ridership. The proposed core and task goals will
be discussed at the May 14, 2019 GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
meeting. This memo includes agreed upon changes as discussed at the May 14, 2019 GM
Oversight and Performance Management Committee meeting.
Proposed Core and Task Goals for 2020
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services: Attain 80%
performance measures
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:





Achieve at least 70% of RTD Board-approved performance measures; OR
Create, collaborate, explain, and implement unincorporated/urban local/suburban
local area service standards; OR
Present a plan to maintain existing service levels; OR
Monitor DTP performance and compliance and report this information to the Board.

Achieved Goal




Achieves 80% of RTD Board-approved performance measures; AND
Creates, collaborates, explains, and implements unincorporated/urban/suburban
local area service standards; AND
Presents a plan to not significantly reduce service levels; AND

Packet Pg. 52



Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Monitors DTP performance and compliance and reports this information to the
Board.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:



Achieves 90% or more of RTD Board-approved performance measures; OR
Provides outstanding and noteworthy service for major or unscheduled RTDsupported special events, conventions, 16th Street Mall events, BroncosRide, etc.,
in addition to providing normally scheduled service.

Core Goal #2 - Strong & Ethical Leadership: Articulates vision, forms cohesive
team, regular team-building sessions, builds and maintains effective executive
team, and handles conflict.
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:








Provide an organizational vision that is understood or achieved; OR
Communicate on a regular basis with Senior Leaders and employees; OR
Form a cohesive SLT and employee team as evident through inter-departmental
coordination; OR
Conduct regularly scheduled team-building sessions w/the Board and SLT; OR
Build an effective executive team; OR
Adhere to the District's Code of Ethics; OR
Oversee and ensure the District's performance management/evaluation program.

Achieved Goal









Provides an organizational vision that is understood and achieved; AND
Communicates on a regular basis with the SLT and employees; AND
Forms a cohesive SLT and employee team as evident through inter-departmental
coordination; AND
Conducts scheduled team-building sessions w/the Board and SLT; AND
Builds and maintains an effective executive team; AND
Is flexible and adaptable in dealings with others; AND
Adheres to the District's Code of Ethics; AND
Oversees and ensures the success of RTD's performance management program.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:


Displays exceptional leadership skills as evident by the agency being called upon
to address national transportation industry issues (examples may include
delivering presentations to national audiences); OR

Page |2

Packet Pg. 53



Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Recognized both locally and nationally as being clear and transparent in agency
operations (examples may include local or national articles acknowledging RTD, or
delivering presentations to national audiences).

Core Goal #3 - Strong Financial Management: Oversees operating and
FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal reporting,
and development of financing plans for future projects.
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:





Adequately oversee the budgeting, accounting, payroll, grants administration,
debt, investments, performance reporting, revenue and ridership reporting, all
FasTracks-related finance operations; OR
Ensure compliance with local, state and federal reporting requirements for
budgets, audits and other financial documents; OR
Oversee the development of the RTD annual budget and financing plans for future
projects.

Achieved Goal





Oversees the budgeting, accounting, payroll, grants administration, debt,
investments, performance reporting, revenue and ridership reporting, and all
FasTracks-related finance operations, leading to a balanced budget; AND
GM Ensures compliance with local, state and federal reporting requirements for
budgets, audits and other financial documents; AND
Oversees the development of the RTD annual budget and financing plans for future
projects.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:





Financing plans are creative to the point they save the District substantial funds;
OR
Aggressive pursuit of grants and/or alternative financing leads to additional
funding for District's capital programs and/or a reduction in otherwise anticipated
service reductions; OR
Partners with another organization to realize funding or savings above what RTD
could have achieved independently.

Page |3

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Core Goal #4 -Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)/ Affirmative
Action (AA)/ Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) / Small Business
Enterprise (SBE): As written in Achieved Goal Criteria
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:







Ensure resolution of EEO-related concerns/complaints in a timely manner; OR
Consider Affirmative Action goals in applicable hiring decisions; OR
Consider utilization of DBE companies in applicable purchasing decisions; OR
Schedule appropriate staff to attend EEO/AA/DBE training and/or DBE events; OR
Attend assigned/required EEO/AA/DBE events; OR
Complete FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas as adequate.

Achieved Goal







Ensures resolution of EEO-related concerns/complaints in a timely manner; AND
Includes AA goal consideration in applicable hiring decisions; AND
Considers utilization of DBE companies in applicable purchasing decisions; AND
Schedules appropriate staff to participate in EEO/AA/DBE training and/or DBE
events; AND
Attends RTD's DBE events and related Chamber events; AND
FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas are adequate.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets all Achieved Goal criteria, PLUS one of the following:








The District is lauded both locally and nationally for its SBE/DBE/WIN Programs
(examples may include articles in national publications or presenting to national
audiences); OR
Base system and FasTracks DBE/SBE/WIN goals are achieved; OR
Innovative programs in this area are pursued and implemented; OR
FTA Triennial Reviews focusing on these areas are exceptional; OR
Recognizing DBE/SBE firms for showing annual improvement in terms of revenue
growth, capacity building, and prime contracts; OR
Subject to Board approval and within applicable law and FTA
requirements/guidance documents, implements efforts to enhance DBE/SBE
companies’ ability to build capacity and prime contracts.

Page |4

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Core Goal #5 - Effective Communications & Community Outreach: Keeps Board
informed, periodically meets with Board members, delivers presentations in
local and national venues, and continues public information/ public relations
planning and implementation
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:






Keep Board informed about Board-determined pertinent issues, with regard to the
operation of the District; OR
Proactively and periodically meet with Board member to identify, confirm, and
address priorities; OR
Deliver presentations in local and national venues; OR
Meet with regional leaders for the benefit of the District; OR
Continue Public Information/Public Relations planning and implementation.

Achieved Goal






Keeps Board informed about Board-determined pertinent issues; AND
Meets periodically with Board member to identify, confirm, and address priorities;
AND
Delivers presentations in local and national venues; AND
Meets with regional leaders; AND
Continues Public Information/Public Relations planning and implementation.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets all Achieved Goal criteria, PLUS any one of the following:




The District is lauded both locally and nationally for its increased positive visibility
and reputation (examples may include articles in national publications or
presenting to national audiences; winning a national award such as APTA
AdWheels); OR
General Manager and Communications conducts 2 or more briefings to the public
such briefings to occur at varied times and days, for example weekday evening
and Saturday daytime (briefings could be community updates and GM telephone
town halls).

Page |5

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Task Goals
Task Goal #1 – Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/Collaboration
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:









Communicate in a proactive and transparent manner through the use of a
communications work plan for events, developments, and issues to assure
audiences are notified in a timely and proactive manner; OR
Develop topic-area or issue-specific key messages and fact sheets; OR
Refresh Director/District profiles; OR
Hold one community engagement and listening opportunity per Director district
with Director input; OR
Hold regional PIO briefings; OR
Establish an RTD newsroom utilizing blog, video news releases, podcasts, thought
leadership articles and social media; OR
Develop a Rapid Response Plan for emerging news; OR
Hold periodic media visits.

Achieved Goal









Communicate in a proactive and transparent manner through the use of a
communications work plan for events, developments, and issues to assure
audiences are notified in a timely and proactive manner; AND
Develop topic-area or issue-specific key messages and fact sheets; AND
Refresh Director/District profiles; AND
Hold one community engagement and listening opportunity per Director district
with Director input; AND
Hold regional PIO briefings; AND
Establish an RTD newsroom utilizing blog, video news releases, podcasts, thought
leadership articles and social media; AND
Develop a Rapid Response Plan for emerging news; AND
Hold periodic media visits.

Exceeded expectations




Redesign website to enhance navigation and availability of most relevant customer
agency information; OR
Write quarterly industry-related thought leadership articles; OR
Enhance Rider Alerts to include more detailed/route-specific information.

Page |6

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Task Goal #2 – Address Transit Equity
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:








Evaluate transportation options or alternatives to fixed route service in
demographic and geographic areas that do not support fixed route service
according to service standards; OR
Explore strategies and options for FasTracks unfunded corridors; OR
Develop an equity training program to foster an inclusive environment for the
public and employees, and initiate training with executive level employees; OR
Develop an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework that will establish a policy and
set of practices that seek to include and consult the public; OR
Convene an Internal Equity Working Group representing all departments focused
on identifying and responding to opportunities to promote equitable transit; OR
Develop a comprehensive safety and security community relations plan, and hold
community meetings regarding safety and security.

Achieved Goal








Evaluate transportation options or alternatives to fixed route service in
demographic and geographic areas that do not support fixed route service
according to service standards; AND
Explore strategies and options for FasTracks unfunded corridors; AND
Develop an equity training program to foster an inclusive environment for the
public and employees, and initiate training with executive level employees; AND
Develop an Inclusive Decision-Making Framework that will establish a policy and
set of practices that seek to include and consult the public; AND
Convene an Internal Equity Working Group representing all departments focused
on identifying and responding to opportunities to promote equitable transit; AND
Develop a comprehensive safety and security community relations plan, and hold
community meetings regarding safety and security.

Exceeded expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:




Implement a transportation option or alternative to fixed route service pilot project
in an area not served by fixed route service; OR
Obtains grant or other funding/partnership arrangement to initiate or implement
an alternative to fixed route service pilot project.; OR
Implement safety and security community relations plan by holding community
meetings regarding safety and security.

Task Goal #3 – Enhance Current and Future Transportation Methods
Needs Improvement
Page |7

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

GM fails to:









Present a Bus Stop Consolidation opportunity to the public and Board of Directors;
OR
Present at least two Mobility Choice tactical action item progress reports to the
Board; OR
Identifyies and presents at least onea FlexRide demonstration project, OR
Makes progress toward implementation of an additional Transit Priority project, for
example digital short range communication on Federal Blvd.; OR
Initiate the development of specifications for procurement of VW settlementfunded electric buses and charging station infrastructure; OR
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator and
Maintenance employee headcounts; OR
Implements at least one of the projects identified in the First and Final Mile or
Mobility Hub Guideline Plans; OR
Accomplishs significant engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp Plan including:
at least four Board updates, four meetings of the T2 Advisory Committee, and
eight meetings of the T2 Working Group and has public/stakeholder engagement
meetings.

Achieved Goal









Present a Bus Stop Consolidation opportunity to the public and Board of Directors;
AND
Present at least two Mobility Choice tactical action item progress reports to the
Board; AND
Identifies and presents at least one FlexRide demonstration project, AND
Makes progress toward implementation of an additional Transit Priority project, for
example digital short range communication on Federal Blvd.; AND
Initiate the development of specifications for procurement of VW settlementfunded electric buses and charging station infrastructure; AND
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator and
Maintenance employee headcounts; AND
Implements at least one of the projects identified in the First and Final Mile or
Mobility Hub Guideline Plans; AND
Accomplishes significant engagement efforts relative to the T2 Comp Plan
including: at least four Board updates, four meetings of the T2 Advisory
Committee, and eight meetings of the T2 Working Group and has
public/stakeholder engagement meetings.

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:






Achieves 90% bus operator headcount; OR
Meets 95% bus maintainer headcount; OR
Achieves 90% LRV operator headcount; OR
Meets 95% LRV electro-mechanic headcount; OR
Mandating reduces by 10% from 2019 levels; OR
Page |8

Packet Pg. 59





Receives a new capital grant award to advance an FasTracks unfunded corridor,
or advance a mobility option; OR
Implement a Mobility Choice tactical action item; OR
Develops a plan to advance one of the FasTracks unfunded corridors.

Task Goal #4 – Strengthen Safety and Security
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:










Analyze employee injury data to prioritize actions for prevention; OR
Create an RTD wide Safety Risk Register; OR
Create SMS dashboard for tracking progress on initiatives and both leading and
lagging indicators; OR
Implement a Bus Operations safety audit process in 2019 2020 similar to that of
light rail; OR
Establish a Security & Safety Continuous Improvement Committee, that includes
Union representatives, security team members and RTD management; OR
Continue the semiannual “Security Roadshow” and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions, share our security efforts, explain the employee’s role in reporting
and solicit feedback; OR
Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators and security officers with
regular training and bulletins; OR
Hold monthly meetings of Cybersecurity staff with the GM and CEO; OR
Increase Transit Watch downloads by 10% in 2020 over 2019.

Formatted: Space After: 0 pt
Formatted: Space After: 12 pt

Achieved Goal










Analyze employee injury data to prioritize actions for prevention; AND
Create an RTD wide Safety Risk Register; AND
Create SMS dashboard for tracking progress on initiatives and both leading and
lagging indicators; AND
Implement a Bus Operations safety audit process in 2019 2020 similar to that of
light rail; AND
Establish a Security & Safety Continuous Improvement Committee, that includes
Union representatives, security team members and RTD management; AND
Continue the semiannual “Security Roadshow” and visit all RTD divisions to make
introductions, share our security efforts, explain the employee’s role in reporting
and solicit feedback; AND
Reinforce de-escalation culture amongst our operators and security officers with
regular training and bulletins; AND
Hold monthly meetings of Cybersecurity staff with the GM and CEO; AND
Increase Transit Watch downloads by 10% in 2020 over 2019..

Formatted: Space After: 0 pt
Formatted: Space After: 12 pt

Exceeded expectations


Meet with the ATU Executive Board quarterly to discuss SMS progress, programs,
and receive feedback; OR
Page |9

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b




Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Develop a general safety training matrix for all employees, in each area, Bus Ops,
Rail Ops, Maintenance (Rail and Bus), and Facility Maintenance, to include all
Divisions/Functional groups; OR
Establish Audit protocol for Commuter Rail and initiate audit process.

P a g e | 10

Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Task Goal #5 – Increase Ridership
Needs Improvement
GM fails to:









Identify and evaluate barriers to ridership on RTD services through rider and nonrider surveys; OR
Complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD’s services through the T2 study
plan by the end of 2020; OR
Establish new service by opening the N Line; OR
Optimize service on underperforming routes through recommendations to the
Board via the service change/run board process; OR
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator headcount;
OR
Prepare for and initiate Collective Bargaining Agreement approach, Fall of 2020;
OR
Continue to explore new partnership with public and private partners to improve
trip planning and ticketing options; OR
Work on implementation of the new account based ticketing system and provide
progress reports to the Board.

Achieved Goal









Identify and evaluate barriers to ridership on RTD services through rider and nonrider surveys; AND
Complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD’s services through the T2 study
plan by the end of 2020; AND
Establish new service by opening the N Line; AND
Optimize service on underperforming routes through recommendations to the
Board via the service change/run board process; AND
Continue strong recruitment and retention efforts to increase operator headcount;
AND
Prepare for and initiate Collective Bargaining Agreement approach, Fall of 2020;
AND
Continue to explore new partnership with public and private partners to improve
trip planning and ticketing options; AND
Work on implementation of the new account based ticketing system and provide
progress reports to the Board.

P a g e | 11

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: 2020 Core and Task Goals as Revised by GMOC - REDLINED (3844 : Approval of General Manager's 2020 Core & Task Goals)

2.12.B.b

Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS any one of the following:





Ridership exceeds budgeted level; OR
Evaluate relevant information, such as the fare structure modeling and data from
the Pass Program Working Group, to determine what fiscally sustainable possible
changes to fare or structure may positively impact ridership, and devise a proposed
pilot project to evaluate the effectiveness of any such ideas proposed; OR
Evaluate analytic data such as area-wide cell phone usage to determine potential
ridership pattern needs and devise a proposed pilot project to evaluate the
effectiveness of basing routing on such new data analysis.

P a g e | 12

Packet Pg. 63

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

June 4, 2019

Subject:

Approval Pass Program Phasing from 3 to 5
Years

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: June 5, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to move the phasing of the price increase due to the
2019 fare changes for CollegePass, EcoPass, and Neighborhood EcoPass from a 3 year phase-in period
to a 5 year phase-in period. This would extend the 20% cap on price increases to not only year 2019
and 2020 but also years 2021 and 2022 with the full implementation of the fare increase in 2023.
GM Goals
 GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management
BACKGROUND
When the Board passed the new fare structure and pricing in September 2018, they requested that staff
continue to work with stakeholders on implementation issues particularly in the area of the CollegePass
program. Based on the Board’s direction, RTD staff has had many meetings with stakeholders over the
last 6 months and have looked into the many requests that we received. For example: Could we allow
CollegePass and EcoPass holders at the age of 19 and under to be priced at the 70% Youth discount?
Would we be open to having the tap data that is used for pricing to be audited? Would we be willing to
phase the price increases for CollegePass over 5 years instead of 3 years?
Staff has researched various options and has agreed to have the tap data audited by our financial
auditing firm on a three (3) year basis. In addition, we looked at the option of applying the youth
discount to the CollegePass program and phasing the price increases for the CollegePass over 5 years
instead of 3 years. Although we will not be pursuing the youth discount for CollegePass at this time,
there is merit in looking at expanding the phase-in period for CollegePass. The results are below. We
looked at applying the 5 year phase-in period to the CollegePass, Neighborhood EcoPass, and EcoPass as
these pass programs have similar program attributes and financial impacts to the customer and RTD.
DISCUSSION
Staff has spent the last several months working with our consultants to model the impacts of spreading
the implementation of the EcoPass, Neighborhood EcoPass, and CollegePass pricing changes over 5
years instead of 3 years. Currently the increase for EcoPass, Neighborhood EcoPass, and CollegePass
increases are capped at 20% in years 2019 and 2020 with the entire increase implemented in year
2021. This was a proposal from the Pass Working Group and was adopted by the Board.

Packet Pg. 64

2.12.C

The new proposal would move the phasing of the price increase from a 3 year phase-in period to a 5
year phase-in period. This would extend the 20% cap on price increases to not only year 2019 and
2020 but also years 2021 and 2022 with the full implementation of the fare increase in 2023.
2019

2020

2021

2022*

2023 Full
Implementation**
Price per Employee
Capped at
Capped at
Capped at
Capped at
Remainder of
20% increase 20% increase 20% increase 20% increase
increase
* Mid-term Financial Plan assumes a fare increase in 2022 to increase fare revenue 10%. Price per
Employee with fare increase will not exceed 20% cap inclusive of the fare increase.
** 100% utilization price including price increase due to assumed fare increase in 2022
The Modeling Assumptions Were as Follows:
 The revenue & ridership impact of extending the phasing are based on the model assumptions,
namely the degree of retention of organziations given price increases
 Modeling assumptions regarding retention were used to provide conservative revenue estimates
for price increases for pass program organizations
 Modeling assumed that all Colleges, Large Employers, and Master EcoPass contracts would remain
in RTD’s pass programs in both phasing scenarios.
Beneficiaires of Longer Phasing:
Pass Type
EcoPass
SLA A Employers (1-24 Employees)
SLA A Employers (25-249 Employees)
SLA D – DIA Employers
Auraria Staff
CU Boulder Staff
CAGID
CollegePass
CU Boulder Students
To a lesser degree Naropa & Escoffier
Neighborhood EcoPass

Total # of Employees/Employers in SLA
~125-130 Employers & ~1,500 Employees
~135-140
Employers
&
~11,000
Employees
~40 Employers & ~5,300 Employees
~3,900 Staff
~9,700 Staff
~7,300 Staff

~20-25 of the 55 Neighborhoods

Title VI Impacts:
 Phasing over 5 vs 3 years would not be considered a fare change
 To understand how the phasing would impact the overall average fare increase of riders in 2021, a
comparision of the increase in average fare for minority and low-income riders were compared to
all riders
 The percentage point change in the average fare between protected riders and all riders is within
RTD’s +/- 5% threshold under either phasing timeframe

Packet Pg. 65

2.12.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
 Extending phasing would result in identical ridership but a loss in revenue in 2021 and 2022
 Estimated Revenue Loss
o 2021 - $1.5 million to $2.5 million
o 2022 - $1.5 million to $2.0 million
o 2023 - $0 to $500,000
o Total 2021-2023 is between $3 million and $5 million
 These estimated revenue changes will be incorporated in the upcoming 2020-2025 Mid-Term
Financial Plan, if this change is approved by the Board.
ALTERNATIVES
 Recommended Alternative: It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to move the phasing
of the price increase due to the 2019 fare changes for CollegePass, EcoPass, and Neighborhood
EcoPass from a 3 year phase-in period to a 5 year phase-in period. This would extend the 20%
cap on price increases to not only year 2019 and 2020 but also years 2021 and 2022 with the
full implementation of the fare increase in 2023.
 Other Alternative: Do not approve this action. The structure for phasing in the pass program
fare increase would stay the same.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Mike Washington, Title VI Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 66

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

June 4, 2019

Subject:

Approval FT Litigation Contract Authority

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: June 5, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute contracts, including contract
amendments, to engage, or continue to engage, outside legal counsel to represent RTD for an additional
$4 million for a total amount not to exceed $12.5 million.
This recommendation satisfies GM Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and GM Task Goal #1
Fiscal Sustainability.
BACKGROUND
RTD has received certain claims from its contractors for both the Eagle P3 and NMRL Projects that have
led to alternative dispute resolution and litigation in Denver District Court. RTD has engaged certain law
firms to assist RTD’s General Counsel and the RTD Legal Services Division (RTD Law) in providing legal
representation concerning these various claims. The approved budgets for 2018 and 2019 included
funding designated and available for these litigation costs. In May 2018, this Board approved a
recommended action for contract authority up to a total of $8.5 million in litigation costs. At that time,
the requested amount was RTD Law’s best estimate of funding required for 2018. However, RTD Law
advised that if the litigation matters became more complex or otherwise continued into 2019, RTD Law
expected that further contract authority would be necessary.
DISCUSSION
For the NMRL Project, this Board approved a resolution of the delay claim pending at the time this Board
approved the prior contract authority. Since that time, RTD’s contractor has given notice of other delay
claims that may proceed to arbitration. In 2019, RTD is likely to incur litigation costs in order to defend
those claims.
For the EAGLE Project, RTD’s Concessionaire Denver Transit Partners (DTP) has filed a complaint against
RTD in Denver District Court. That litigation is ongoing; the court has set a trial to begin in May 2020.
RTD is likely to incur litigation costs in preparation for that trial.
RTD will continue to use in-house legal resources and pursue alternative dispute resolution (settlement
discussions) to try to limit expenses. Contracts for outside services are procured competitively in
accordance with RTD procurement standards.

Packet Pg. 67

2.12.D

FINANCIAL IMPACT (If any)
This recommendation will be completed primarily with funding from the Board-approved 2019 FasTracks
project budgets.
ALTERNATIVES (if any)
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Finance and Administration
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
negotiate and execute contracts, including contract amendments, to engage, or continue to
engage, outside legal counsel to represent RTD for an additional $4 million for a total amount not
to exceed $12.5 million.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. If the Recommended Action is not approved, the
General Counsel would use the current contract authority available and then seek to obtain Board
approval for individual contracts or amendments. While RTD Law intends to represent RTD on
certain disputes or to partner with outside counsel to reduce costs, the primary litigation matters
require a large law firm with more resources and depth of expertise beyond the capacity of RTD
Law. The Board’s failure to provide the requested contractual authority could impair RTD’s ability
to satisfy its legal obligations and act in its own best interest in defending pending claims, as well
as delay completion of FasTracks projects.

Prepared by:
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Deputy General Counsel
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 68

