August 27, 2019
Study Session
DOUG TISDALE: Tuesday, August 27, 2019, for the Board of Directors of the Regional
Transportation District will now come to order at 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. A word of
advisement to all, please note that all of the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are
digitally video recorded, and they will be captioned and made available to the public via the
Board's website. And at some time next year, they'll actually start streaming.
At RTD, safety is our core value, so bear with us a moment as we give you a short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency that requires that 911 be called, I will ask our General Counsel to
make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals who might be present in the room are
respectfully requested to assist us as they may be able. And if needed, there is and Automatic
Emergency Defibrillator, an AED device, in a glass case that's located just outside this room, and
it's on the wall to the right.
In the event that we do have to, hopefully not, evacuate this building for some fire or other
emergency, we ask you please to calmly exit out the door through which you entered at the back
of the room. Go up the stairs. Go around the security desk, and then exit out the front door where
police and security officers will be present to direct you to a safe meet-up area. And if there is
anyone who needs special assistance in the event of an evacuation, you will be assisted by RTD
staff as necessary.
And all of you know there are things that are beyond our capacity to prevent in the first instance,
and sometimes we have to respond. And you've seen news in recent days about some of that. So
we encourage everyone to help ensure safety and security on our system for our passengers, for
our vehicles, for our facilities, for our operators, and for people who are near them-- that we rely
on staff and on the public to keep your eyes and ears open and be aware and alert of any dangerous
or suspicious activity on buses, or trains, and around stations, and stops, and platforms.
We encourage everyone, all RTD employees, all patrons, all people who are aware of the RTD to
download the RTD Transit Watch app on your telephone. That app will allow you immediately to
report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with the RTD Transit Security
personnel on a real-time basis. It's immediate in terms of your contact. They are there 24/7 with
the sole job of monitoring the Transit Watch app. That app is available via Google Play and the
Apple App Store. So please look into that.
And the final safety briefing is, if you haven't been aware of it, Lyft is doing safety briefings all
over the area in conjunction with DRMAC and with the great facility and assistance of DRMAC
in putting on those safety briefings. So check out what Lyft is doing to teach us all about scooter
safety. Thank you.
All right, tonight we address Transportation Transformation. We will hear this evening a
presentation from the RTD staff regarding the initial planning efforts of the Transportation

Transformation. It's an initiative that is currently underway here at RTD. I want to stress again the
word "initial planning efforts." As you will hear, this is a detailed and extended process with which
the Board will be directly involved as we go along. And we hope many of you as staff, as
stakeholders, as interested parties will be engaged as well. This Transportation Transformation is,
among other things, an effort completely to reimagine the services that we as an agency provide
to our constituents so as to ensure that we remain ever vigilant in our endeavors to meet our
constituents' present and future public transit needs by providing safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible, cost-effective transit services throughout the entire district.
I know that there is a great deal of interest relative to one particular element of the presentation
we're going to hear tonight relative to the Advisory Group. Be advised we will have extended
discussion relative to that. So to lead things off, it is my distinct privilege to turn our proceedings
over now to the CEO and General Manager of RTD, the man who will lead us through the
Transportation Transformation, Mr. David Genova. Mr. Genova, take it away.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The team, we're excited tonight to have this workshop
and Study Session with the Board on the next steps for Reimagine RTD. So the presentation, we'll
go through some information. And then as we get into the survey results on the guiding principles,
we'll kind of pause there, and we want to just have some dialogue and some-- just kind of some
workshop time on that. And then we'll complete the rest of the presentation and talk about where
we have been advancing on the various input committees that are going to be working with us. But
tonight, we have-- so Bill Van Meter, Bill Sirois, and Brian Welch will really deliver most of the
presentation. I may be jumping in from time to time. But I'll turn it over to Bill and his team now.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Dave. Again, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager
for Planning. I will be mercifully brief during the presentation here. Just to reiterate what Dave
said as we get the PowerPoint up and I work on getting the right-BRIAN WELCH: Oh, no.
BILL VAN METER: Right there. OK, beautiful.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]
BILL VAN METER: So I just wanted to reiterate what they-- oh, yeah, now I'm jumping
[INAUDIBLE]. This again. OK, I'll get the hang of it eventually. I just wanted to reiterate what
Dave said in terms of the cadence of our presentation. So we want to discuss and give you a look
ahead on the expected Board topics for 2019-2020, and even into 2021 a little, just so you have an
idea of the cadence and what we anticipate today. Things are subject to change-- will be the topics
that are coming before the Board on at least a bimonthly basis at Planning/Capital Programs and
FasTracks Committee meetings and occasional potential study sessions when we need to go more
in depth.

And from there, we'll take you straight into a guiding principles discussion. As noted, we intend
to pause there and have a discussion focused on those topics, on the topics for 2019 and 2020 and,
more importantly, the guiding principles. Then we want to switch gears and present on the
Advisory Committee and Technical Working Group process and have another discussion at that
point. So hopefully, we can contain those two discussions separately. And you'll give the courtesy
to Brian Welch, who's going to give the first portion, and then Bill Sirois, who's going to give the
second portion, the chance to get through the whole presentation before we engage in dialogue and
questions and answers. So with that, I'll turn it to Brian Welch, our Senior Manager of Planning
Technical Services, to take it away.
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair and Members of the Board. I'm going to be very brief.
You've had this material, so all I need to do is give you a couple of highlights. What we'll reiterate
now at the beginning and then again in much more detail later is it's a Board-driven process. That
means you're going to provide direction on where we're headed, which is, again, this evening, and
then you're going to make the policy recommendation. And that will be the way that we march
through this.
We had a chartering session with our consultant team on Friday, both in the morning and the
afternoon. And I just want to tell you the level of enthusiasm and excitement that the staff and the
team have to take on this endeavor. As I mentioned when you awarded the contract, we are very
fortunate to have premier local project management expertise. Holly and Julia are here again this
evening as well as a very talented set of national experts. They all look at this as a unique challenge
both in terms of this effort but in all of their professional careers because we're taking on something
that no other transit agency has done quite this particular level. So here we go. We're excited and
ready.
I just wanted to highlight two things on this slide. One of the things that we'll be tackling this year
that you've all already waded into is this whole notion of the issues of coverage, and ridership, and
frequency. That's actually a very complex question that not easily dealt with for an agency like
RTD that offers such a wide family of services in such a differing geographic area. So get ready.
It's not nearly as simple as it might seem on its face. But that's also exciting about it.
The other thing I'll point out is that on this slide you can see that by early next year we'll be ready
to show you some scenarios for potential consideration that are a combination of how to optimize
the system and the financial consequences of doing so. And just as a preview, we're going to be
presenting with, at a minimum, one system optimization scenario that would be based on our
current resources only based upon where we are in our financial planning and then another that
could assume potential other-- another scenario that might require a different set of resources.
On this, I just want to draw your attention to, by August of next year, we would endeavor to bring
before the Board a system optimization plan. And that's a date that we're going to stick to. We're- our consultant team is committed to that as well. And we are already underway and doing a great
deal of the work that's going to lead up to that. Next one.
And then I'll just wrap up on this. The intent would be that by December, after going through
maybe one or two meetings-- no, actually, I think it's more dozens. But at any rate, you would be

ready to, as a Board of Directors, consider adoption of a system optimization plan recommended
to you by your staff. If you could think of this as the biggest run-board that RTD has done in the
last few decades, that's the vision because, again, it's just to indicate we're looking at the entire
Rail system, as well as the entire Bus system, and all of the other services as well. So I just wanted
to share that. And I will hand it over to Bill Sirois.
DAVID GENOVA: Bill-- Bill, before you start, I just want to point out one thing, and then you
probably noticed it-- that at every milestone, we will also provide the public engagement update
about what's been happening through the stakeholder and public engagement. So that will occur at
every briefing that we do will be a detailed update on that. OK, Bill.
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager in Transit-Oriented Communities. So I'll
pick up on the end where Brian left off, which in 2021, obviously, we're going to be wrapping up
looking at kind of the long-- wrapping up the long-term vision piece of this process and focusing
on the mobility planning for the future. So that's just the notion of the sequencing of things and
understanding. And now we get to the fun stuff, which is how do we start the conversation? And
where are we in that process?
So as we presented earlier this month, we talked about guiding principles and talked about this,
what we would use them for. They're values that we would say that we would look to and consider
as we're making decisions about trade-offs and decisions in looking at analysis and scenarios. And
so they're intended to really to help guide us, provide some pillars for decision-making as we move
forward. So intent is to help focus our conversations. They're intending to kind of making sure that
we-- they all assume that we remain focused on our mission, so that's always included, always
assumed. But again, they are tied to some of the 2020 adopted strategies. But again, it's clear that
the focus of these is to try to help this guide the discussion. And that's really the intent.
So here's an example of one that has been coming up a lot recently about the ridership versus
coverage issue, which is, if you look at this, there's a continuum, like Brian said, that we could fall
anywhere in between there. And what will happen during this process is we will be presenting
analysis and information to the Board that will also be reviewed by others that we'll consider about
where do we-- where are we at on that continuum? Where should we ulti-- where do we ultimately
want to be that will help guide as we test things as we move forward with the different scenarios
that Brian discussed?
So again, when we sent out the survey earlier this month, again, the goal we had, staff had
developed a series of 10 guiding principles that we wanted to throw out to the Board for really to
start a dialogue in terms of things that thinking about this plan, thinking about the agency, and
thinking about the value statements that we talked about. These represent things that we
collectively as staff thought were representative of things that we want to consider as we move
forward with this study or this-- excuse me-- this planning process. Sorry.
So we have, again, a variety of things in here from customer focus, service balance, fiscal
responsibility, economic benefits, social equity-- so again, a lot, a broad range of things that we
covered. Now, and in terms of the survey results, so we asked the Board to provide their sense of
any priority, trying to define their top five. So the results are shown here in this graph, which,

again, essentially say that-- I would say fiscal responsibility is probably the clear leader, which
makes a lot of sense. And then the other ones, again, there's a variety of different opinions.
And so there's kind of-- they're kind of all-- I wouldn't say there is clearly anything beyond those
other principles. So we just wanted to present that basic information and really just open it up for
the Board just at this point to say, getting feedback on the survey, feedback on the principles that
we provided, things that we're missing. And again, we have the survey. And we did-- there were
certainly some things that were identified in the survey that we will again acknowledge. So we
will pause here and then open it up for questions.
DOUG TISDALE: At this time then-- and are we using the-- there we are. All right. So, Director
Folska, you are recognized first for a question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Bill, for the sake of our audience, many of those
folks in the audience are visually impaired. Will you please read the top five priorities that the
Board voted on?
BILL SIROIS: Sure. The top five that were voted on, again, this is out of 14 total responses. Fiscal
responsibility had 12 responses. System sustainability had 8. Ridership growth and social equity
had 7. And customer focus and technology innovation had 6.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, and thank you. And then, Director Folska, that responded to your
question, did it?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Perfectly.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I've got a lot of questions and comments. So here goes. OK?
For one thing, I don't understand yet, and I don't-- I'll speak for myself. I don't understand the ratio,
what it really means, what each word means, ridership as opposed to coverage. It could mean a lot
of things. And it's not explained. And therefore, it doesn't help me feel guided because I don't
understand it. So I'd really like you guys to fix that.
BRIAN WELCH: The Jarrett Walker presentation was-- I think one of the takeaways was
oversimplified and in terms of that particular. And I understand the nature of the question. We
offer a wide variety of services, for example, FlexRide. Now, would you try and define the
coverage versus ridership characteristics of FlexRide? It really doesn't fit-- Access-a-Ride, similar,
paratransit.
And then we've got service standards that we apply differentially throughout our district predicated
on the nature of the urban environment where, again, you can't simply come up with a number.
And I-- what we're-- we'd like the takeaway to be, at least for the time being, is it's, for our district,
one number won't fit. And even within our district, there's a continuum of Board decisions that
will relate to that issue.

Now, there are some types of services that we may be asking for more specific direction with
regard to a simpler ratio. But it won't be a number for RTD. And in fact, if-- this came up with our
consultant team on Friday. And both our staff and the consult team said, there isn't one number for
RTD. It's just not going to work. And so I'm glad you brought that up. We need to be clear that
that's going to be much more nuanced. And while there will be decisions to be made by
policymakers, you, as the Board, on the concept of are you trying to provide a coverage-type
service or are you going mainly for ridership, it will be a multilayered answer, not a single ratio.
Does that help?
JUDY LUBOW: It really does. Because I was going to just say, no, I'm not going to do it.
BRIAN WELCH: Right.
JUDY LUBOW: Because, you know, because it didn't make sense to me. And it's too important.
BILL VAN METER: And well, I'll offer "nuanced" was the word that I have used in describing
this. And the other thing is that we will bring the public, our Technical Committee, our Advisory
Committee, and, importantly, the Board of Directors along so that you understand what we're
talking about within context as well. So our service standards, as Brian was alluding to, vary to try
to strike a balance today between coverage and ridership. Are those service standards where we
want to be? How do we understand and interpret them? And what's the policy direction and
guidance that will come? You will gain a much deeper understanding of those sorts of issues as
we move through this process so that you can make an informed policy decision.
JUDY LUBOW: So we're not going to be asked to vote on 60-40 or something like that?
BRIAN WELCH: No.
JUDY LUBOW: Because that didn't make no sense.
BRIAN WELCH: As a matter of fact, Jarrett Walker in a follow-up, I saw he made a comment,
and he said-- because somebody said, well, you're trying to tell transit agencies to pick a number,
aren't you? And he said, no. That wasn't my point. He said, my point was if you want ridership, do
this. If you want coverage, do this. But I didn't tell RTD what to do. And he, I think, wanted that
to be clear.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. That's just one down. So how could we define ourselves now for
a ratio? We can't because it's too complicated. So how are we going to define our baseline about
anything? Because it is very complicated.
BRIAN WELCH: We will be bringing, as part of the current assessment of RTD services back to
the Board and through our public engagement process, a wide range of our own service standards
supplemented by a number of other metrics that the Consultant Team will bring to the Board. So
you're going to see what you would expect to see, boardings per hour, subsidy per boarding. But
then they're going to get into a whole other litany of terms and techniques that are used by transit
agencies across the United States so you can see how we measure up on some of those very

measures for other agencies. That will be the technical content that you'll see. And some of that
will go into ratios, like but a lot of it will be other types of metrics that are recognized and helpful
to you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm feeling much better. It just felt like making a sausage. You don't
want to see it being made. Yeah. OK. So and if you don't mind, I'll do kind of stream of
consciousness. The guiding principles, it seems to me, some of them are fighting each other, are
trade-offs, and some of them are not. So that's not a criteria for it, that they're all different from
each other. Because some of them complement each other.
BILL SIROIS: That's correct. That's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: And what I found interesting is that I didn't feel any sense of clear vision or
direction from the survey. I mean, we want fiscal responsibility. That's it. Everything else is
segregated by like one vote. And one's eight. One's seven. One's six. I mean, that's not a vision.
That shows that this Board has a variety of different focuses or foci at this point. And so we're not
ready at this point to-- and I'm not surprised-- to be making any decisions because we haven't
started learning yet. But I found that interesting, that there real-- there wasn't any vision. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lubow, if I may, you've had three bites.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE] a million.
DOUG TISDALE: Can I go to others and then come-- unless you're close to the end.
JUDY LUBOW: No.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Then all right. Then I'll come back to you if that's all right.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: There you go.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate that. And I am going to ask the speakers recall, please do speak
your name because we have audio recording, and it's not always clear-- [COUGH] excuse me-which voice is which. So we do ask you please to give your name. Director Buzek, let me go to
you next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I just want to clarify that we're pausing here to ask
questions about the guiding principles summary, nothing further. Because I have quick comments
as well on ridership coverage, but I'll hold those until the end if we're talking just about the guiding
principles. Is that accurate?
DOUG TISDALE: It's a fair statement that we're looking at what we've covered up to this point.

VINCE BUZEK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Certainly, you can have some of the-- if you wish to talk about service balance,
ridership growth, you may have that dialogue now. But we've held off on some of the other topics,
as you've seen in your presentation, until later.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. So my questions do relate to guiding principles. And so I have a question
about, you list all these principles, and they seem to cover quite a bit. One thing I don't see on here
is congestion relief. And I think that's a pretty important principle and goal of RTD. It may be
embodied in some of these other principles, such as healthy environment. And if we can pick one
that's the closest to that, I really think congestion relief needs to be a stated principle.
Even Jared Walker's presentation had that slide show we've all seen about 50 cars in a row, and
then a bus with 50 people on it, and that relieved congestion. We also have eight transportation
management organizations in the Denver Metro region, several of whom are represented on this
Board by members who are on either executive directors or on boards. And their goal, one of their
big goals, is congestion relief because it provides air quality improvements and things like that. So
to the extent we can have congestion relief somehow in here, I think that's important.
And as our state demographer pointed out to us, the busiest, most congested, and the fastest
growing corridor is the I-25 corridor. And that's the busiest one that slices right through the RTD
District. So I think that's important in moving forward on these principles that somehow in here,
whether it's a combination of some of these that are listed or a separate one, that we have that in
there because I think they're a really important principle and something I think all 15 of us would
be on board for. That's all I have. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I will emphasize now, and I'll turn it back
to the panel if they wish to make any comment on Director Buzek's remarks, but I will point out
that your observations are exceptionally well taken because it is to be understood, at all times, in
all phases, in all aspects, this is a Board-driven process. This is a Board-driven process. That we
wish to emphasize. Did the panelists have any comments on Director Buzek?
BRIAN WELCH: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right, Director Catlin, Madam Vice-Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Director Buzek stated something that I was questioning as
well. So thank you very much. And then Director Lubow raised a couple of questions that I had
also considered. One of the things that did concern me is that I don't believe that the service
balance, coverage versus ridership, is the cornerstone of this planning exercise. And illustrating it
here as an example, and the only example, further emphasizes it as maybe a cornerstone. And I
don't believe we're there yet.
And we have all been approached by a couple of reporters who have wanted to pin us down on
exactly that. And I believe it's way too premature to do that. And along those lines, on your-- I'm

going to go back to not just the guiding principles, but since Director Lubow already went there,
I'm going to exercise that as well.
In December of 2019, I got a little bit confused in terms of the timeline. The number-one bullet is
trade-offs discussion, frequency versus coverage. And I hope that would really just be a definition
because, in my mind, at that time, you're also presenting your initial findings of our current system
assessment. And to me, I can't really have a meaningful discussion about the trade-offs until I
really understand what we have. And so that's-- I just wanted to kind of point that out that it might- in my mind, as I look through a logical sequence in the planning process, that understanding the
initial findings is an important first step before we have any of those discussions. And then I was
happy to hear that, on the system optimization draft scenarios, that was kind of nice, what you
were bracketing there.
One more thing in terms of the timeline. You have in August of 2020, the first bullet item says,
present Board recommendation system optimization plan. But we only see a draft system
optimization plan in February. And I don't see anywhere where we are looking at some of those
interim steps and that there would be a Board recommendation. But I didn't see any discussion in
the interim. So that just made me question, when would those discussions occur? So I think that's
all I have for now. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you Director and Madam Vice Chair. Any comments then from-- Mr.
Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Yes. Bill Van Meter. Just a quick one. Comments noted. Thank you. And
certainly our intent for 2020 is to come back regularly as we're progressing from that draft towards
August. So we kind of had that in back of our heads and didn't explicitly state it. Thank you for
noting that.
DOUG TISDALE: And I will also note too, as staff has pointed out, the use of the phrase
"frequency versus coverage" is a shorthand for all of the trade-offs discussion. If you look at the
presentation each time, that's just one example that is to be discussed. There are-- it's more complex
than Mr. Spock's three-dimensional chess trying to put this all together. So that is appreciated that
everyone does understand that and feels comfortable with that. Because it is a process that is a
Board-driven process that will come back to us repeatedly through this process so that we can help
continue working with our consultants and working with staff to ensure that a good product that
reflects this Board comes out at the end of the day. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So I had a few questions, and I'll stick to the guiding
principles. I'm curious what our problem statement is from the frame of like a root cause analysis.
I don't know-- I'm not certain why we're doing this. And so it's hard for me to be able to gauge the
guiding principles without understanding what we're trying to solve for. And so if one of you could
help me understand that better, I'd appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Genova?

DAVID GENOVA: I'll start, and then I'll ask the team if they have anything else. So in 2018, one
of the Board's strategic priorities was to address future transportation needs and methods. And so
that's where this concept got, really got, birth was out of that strategic goal that the Board of
Directors gave us in 2018 for 2019. And then as we continued to advance that earlier this year, a
couple of our strategic priorities that came out of the March retreat, one-- or write why we're really
doing the lion's share of the body of this work, one was to address transit equity, and the other one
was to increase ridership.
And so all of those strategic goals that the Board has adopted through their strategic planning
process have resulted in us developing this body of work too, for sure address those things, and
then even take it beyond. But that's where I'd say that starts, at the highest level with the Board
strategic planning process. I don't know if Bill or-- Bill or Brian, if you would have anything to
add.
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter-- just a little bit. So then specific tasks are public engagement
in informing this process and stakeholder engagement as well, driving towards system
optimization plan that addresses those goals that General Manager Genova just identified, a fiscal
sustainability and fiscal analysis to support that to make sure that it is fiscally sustainable, which
was why it's not too surprising, I think, to any of us that that was a top guiding principle, and then
also establishing that mobility plan for the future, so that guide map for the future, all relating back
to the Board-set goals, so public engagement to inform the Board as you make decisions on the
system optimization piece, as well as the fiscal sustainability and the mobility plan for the future
of the longer-term plan. So I'm not sure if that's completely answering it. But it's, I think, helping
set some context.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. It does help. I do have a follow-up. So one thing you mentioned, Bill,
was taking stakeholders along the journey. And I'm curious to what end, particularly as it pertains
to the guiding principles. Will we be taking the guiding principles back to communities to have-to understand as we're taking them along the journey to help them be able to grapple with the same
things that we are? So I'm just curious of that.
BILL SIROIS: I think the expectation is that we would. We would-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Oh, I'm sorry. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities. I think
the expectation is, yes, we would take the guiding principles out to the community and reflect that
these are some of the values that the Board is aspiring to in terms of looking at how we look at our
future. Because I do think that the intent with us, again, just to build on what Dave and Bill just
talked about, we look at this plan as kind of what's next for RTD. I mean, how do we look at our
future kind of on a short, mid-, and long range?
We really have not-- for the last 15 years, we've been operating under the context of FasTracks as
our plan. And this is really taking that, now, let's take a step back and saying, well, we still have
to finish FasTracks. We know that's part of it. But what else do we have to look at? And what are

some of the important issues that we need to be addressing in the next near term but also in the
long term.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you so much. So it's just a request. If we could get some eyes
from broad communities on the guiding principles, it would make me feel a lot better about the
guiding principles as our communities, and riders, and stakeholders are able to help us guide
through some of this. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. And I think it is very definitely intended
to be an outreach process and a receptive process where we are the receptors of information,
comments, and observations. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. That goes to some of my questions, which is to try to
understand what we're being asked to do with the guiding principles and what we're doing with
them. Are we going to be picking five? Are we going to be picking all of these? And we've had
comments, Director Buzek's comment about congestion. And I have a couple more I'll make. How
are those going to be-- do we need to make amendments to those here, propose amendments? How
are those going to be brought back to us? And I guess I-- well, let me stop there.
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter. We bring them to you tonight as part of a process to hear
your input. The survey results were informative. The open-ended question, this dialogue is all
going to help us inform-- help inform us what the next steps are. Frankly, when we embarked on
the discussion of guiding principles, we were thinking to ourselves five, six, four, half dozen, that
range would hopefully rise to the top as priorities for the Board along the lines of what Director
Lubow was noting earlier. We didn't see that as a result clearly here. We're hoping maybe the
discussion here tonight would guide us there.
But also note, and we understand that there are some trade-offs within the guiding principles and
some tensions there that all are important for this process going forward. If we don't hear anything
clear from the direction now and in the coming weeks from dialogue with stakeholders, and
community, and others, then we very well may come back to the Board and say, hey, we have 10
guiding principles. If we can winnow it down, however, to four, five, or six, that makes our lives
a lot simpler a la when the Board sets goals annually for General Manager Genova and for the
agency.
So that would be our hope. But we are quite comfortable and accepting of the complex set of issues
that we've set in front of you just trying to figure out what the guiding principles would be. And
we're open to having that dialogue and hearing what you have to say tonight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great. I have, I guess, two comments then. One is just about
the survey results themselves and maybe taking them with other things in mind. And at the same
time I read this and saw that service balance had four votes looking at the whole district, I was
looking at Nate Minor's article in which he said that he talked to all 15 Board members. And he
said, "Most Board members said RTD has a duty to provide a basic level of service to everyone in
the district. People across the district pay the same 1% sales tax that funds RTD," they noted. Just

because you're getting very different answers on the survey and on those responses, it's just
something to keep in mind.
And then my other comment is, I think, throughout here and throughout all we're doing right now,
it's really important to RTD's future health that we-- and everything we do that we are mindful of
our relationships locally. And I know that's a lot of what you're doing, a lot of the Advisory
Committee and all of those things. But I think that, for instance, the environmental piece, that has
to be important because the state has just passed a climate action plan that sets targets. And it's
something that we need to be part of. It's what our state and our local governments are all setting
targets on.
The other one I noted was the visionary thinking, I think it was, and that in addition to being a
leader nationally and internationally, I think it's real important that we be seen as a leader with
DRCOG, and the MMC, and all of our local governments. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. And-- [COUGHS] Excuse me. I
will point out, recall our consideration of the guiding principles is not constrained to this evening.
It is a process that on-- will continue on. And in fact-- [COUGHS] Excuse me. In fact, we will be
six weeks from now discussing this further as we consider adopting some guiding principles. This
is an effort to make sure that the process of thinking through these issues begins so that we are all
engaged and have thoughts that we can start sharing. Because your thought may help influence
another Director's thoughts on what actually matters. So this is the reason for the discussion. Thank
you. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. So when I was thinking about the Transportation
Transformation, and now we're calling it Reimagining RTD, so, firstly, I'm wondering if we could
just pick one name because I think it can become very confusing. And then our constituents, with
whom we are servants to, would have better clarification. So that's the first thing. I like-- T2 was
great, Reimagining whatever. But I think it's helpful to have one name. In my opinion-DOUG TISDALE: Director, excuse me. Would you like a comment on that first before going on
to your next? You'll still have the mic, but I just want to see if you want a response from the panel
or from Mr. Genova on that question first?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. So we do have a distinction and a reason for those
two names. Transportation Transformation is the overarching initiative that's kind of all
encapsulating of various responses, and programs, and projects, and endeavors by RTD to stay
abreast and hopefully ahead of the marketplace and establish and strengthen our role as a mobility
integrator. So it encompasses account-based ticketing, our relationship with Uber and Lyft, a
number of other initiatives broadly throughout the district. Reimagine RTD is one piece of that-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Let me--

BILL VAN METER: --which is the plan effort that's pretty well-defined to address a two-year
planning effort to address those pieces.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So for my clarification then-- thank you for that-- the Reimagining RTD is
what we're paying $4.7 million for. Is that correct?
BILL VAN METER: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So when I think about reimagining something, and I don't know that
it's possible for any human to do it, but it's a challenge, and it's to try to just drop all of your
previous conceived notions and to really imagine the impossible possible. And that's a tall order.
But it also seems to me that we are here, elected folks. We're public servants. And I think you are
too. And we are servants to the customer, the public. And in all of my business experience-- and I
have extensive business experience-- the customer is king. And that's the reason I chose customer
as number one. Because if you don't have any customers, you can be greatly fiscally responsible
with a big fat zero.
So if we don't have the ridership, and the ridership comes with a customer-- and again, we've talked
about, who is the customer? Who are they? Where are they going? And is it relevant? And I would
even suggest that universal inclusivity, and community, and user experiences are really important
and that the customer drives everything we do.
Now, I also take an issue with this either/or business. I'm wondering why we have to choose
between ridership and coverage and equity. Why can't we have it all? So for example, if we got
rid of all our drivers and had unmanned vehicles-- they're the biggest cost to this agency. Right?
Now, I'm not suggesting that that's a good idea. I think the ATU you would have something to say
about it. But that's really reimagining. That's taking all the constraints that you could possibly think
of and say, well, if the most expensive part of providing transportation is the human component,
and, anyway, we have accidents, I mean, so on and so forth-- so that's one thing.
And then, finally, I want to talk about safety and security. People don't feel safe, and they don't
feel secure on our transit system. And that's going to be a big impact. And so my hope is that we'll
take a serious look at how we can address those issues. That's all for me, Director-- or Chair
Tisdale. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Does the-- do any of the panelists wish to
respond to any of those comments?
BILL VAN METER: Very briefly.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. To your point, Director Folska, regarding, why can't
we have it all? So the study specifically is looking at the reality of fiscal constraint and what we
can do with the limited resources that we have. But we will also look at exactly what you just said,

a more unconstrained scenario. If we had more resources, if we did not have to choose either/or
but both, what does that scenario look like? What sort of resources does it take? And what sort of
positive impacts can it have on our public and on the district? And so we will take a look at that
sort of scenario.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You know, I imagine that-- I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. May I respond?
DOUG TISDALE: No. Please, go on ahead and finish your thought.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. When you guys presented what it would take to finish
FasTracks with a 1%, 1.5%, I thought that was a bold move on your part. I thought it was really
great and courageous. And it gave us a reality check of, OK, if we had unlimited resources, what
could we be doing? How does this look? If money is not the problem, of course, we're going to
wind up becoming fiscally responsible.
But those numbers are changing all the time. We see it every month. It's either ridership, sales tax.
And you know, if you think about what the Colorado State demographer did in her presentation, it
was outstanding. She was talking about the aging population. And when you age, by the way, you
age into disability, and you become cognitively, sensory, mobility impaired-- and, many times,
altogether. And so I think that demographic is there, and it's something that needs to be thought
of.
And with a shrinking younger population, who's going to be paying those sales taxes? Who's going
to be buying the cars, and the washing machines, and the houses? So as large-- as the older
population moves through and they're a bigger financial burden on all of our communities-- and I
don't mean that in a negative way. I mean, we don't even know how to take care of those folks.
Medicare doesn't take care of them. And they have to be super poor if Medicaid is going to pay
for them. So I think those are some very interesting demographics that we really need to pay
attention to. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And I do just want to point out for those who might be
taking notes that the discussion, obviously, about getting rid of all the drivers is a theoretical-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's theoretical, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: --question that is raised in order to prompt discussion and consideration. I don't
want to have ATU Local 1000 come barging into the room during your meeting saying, we just
read in the news or heard on the radio some comment. It is theoretical discussion for purposes of
creating a dialogue. And relative to safety once again, also remember Transit Watch app. Don't
ever forget that because you'll never ride alone. Director Walker, you are recognized, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. And thanks for the first half of a pretty good presentation-- or a very
good presentation, I should say. So regarding the decision ratio that we've been talking about, and
I've been asked a lot, and I'm sure lots of you have been asked about, but the way that I explain it
is that we run through that scenario on a smaller scale every four months when we have to redo
our service plan or when we discuss our-- a service plan, some parts of some route again are up

for elimination or redistribution of resources, and that's all this is. It's just the whole ball of wax
instead of specific routes at a certain time.
So we can do it. We've done it before. We've done it-- I've been doing it for seven years. And if it
doesn't work well in one scenario, then we'd try it some other scenario. But some business opens.
Some business closes. Some development pops up. Some new apartment buildings pop up, and
things get retooled. So we're used to that. It's just going to be a bigger-- just a bigger ball of wax
that we'll be looking at.
I-- let's see. I agree with the optimization, finalizing the optimization before the new Board is
seated. That's one less thing that they would have to get caught up to speed within a very short
time. So I'm glad that's happening while I'm still on the Board, and it's something that the next
Board won't have to deal with, although they will have to deal with it but not that decision. They'll
have other decisions to make.
On the economic benefit, so I saw that it didn't come in very high or, at least in my opinion, very
high on the list. But my thought is that the only reason we exist is to serve the economic benefit of
this region, of the companies and entertainment venues, which I guess are smaller companies.
That's the only reason we exist. That's the only reason, I think, government exists is to protect the
interests of the private sector.
So I would like to see more emphasis on that because, you know, we have a 3,000-person firm or
a entity downtown, and we have some responsibility in getting them there. And the businesses that
rely on the people that we move around the city to spend money or make money rely on us. So I
think that should be-- I think that should be higher in the polls.
Let's see. Oh, I think that all of the guiding principles should have a caveat that-- there was one,
and the computer went dark on me-- improve air quality. I don't know if we can improve air quality.
So I think all of the guiding principles that within that vein, improving, increasing something,
should have a caveat within that states that it should be over or under what it would be without
RTD's presence or this transit agency's presence because there are some things that are just beyond
our controls. Congestion is one of those that was mentioned earlier. But we have no, absolutely
zero, control over how some city wants to perform its development, the densities, the height limits,
the locations of certain uses, certain land uses.
So while I think that we can help alleviate worse congestion than what it would be without us, I
don't know if we can actually improve or alleviate congestion, just some degree of what it would
be without RTD's existence. And that goes for every transit agency in the country. And I think that
was-- yeah, that's all I got. So thanks for the good presentation, looking forward to the rest of it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And also, as a footnote to the Director's
comment, obviously there are over 40 cities located within the Regional Transportation District.
So any comment about cities is never intended to be addressed to one city or another because we
have over 40 cities within this 2,400 square mile region. Director Williams, you are recognized.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Good evening, gentlemen, Bill, Bill, and Brian.
Actually, I don't have much to beat you up with. I just have some general comments. I happened
to hear Mr. Van Meter speak at one of DRCOG's committees on this subject the other day. And I
want everybody to be aware that they did beat him up, that there was a whole lot of input and a
very great deal of interest by the public. Would you not agree on this subject and on how we're
going to approach it?
And Mr. Van Meter did a great job. He was asked repeatedly how the RTD Board felt, and what
they thought, and what they were going to do. And his predominant answer was that we, the Board
and the staff, were working on what we were going to do and that there was not an answer at the
moment. And that was well done. Thank you.
And then I want everybody to be aware that CDOT, who is our state transportation agency, is also
working on an Emerging Mobility Council. And they have everybody from RTD, to the
automobile manufacturers, to human service agencies meeting on something similar to this. It's
not identical, but it's the same concept. Because I think, right now, a backup step-- who knows
what a Nokia was?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody remember Nokia, you know, a little flip phone?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, you couldn't text on it. Right? You couldn't read your email on it. Well,
we're kind of right now the Nokia of transportation because there's just a huge future in front of
us. Nobody knew that-- and a Nokia is like 10 or 12 years old we were there-- that everybody in
fourth grade would have an iPhone in their pocket today.
So in many ways, we are attempting to look, as Director Folska said, at a future that is not
imaginable in many ways. We're trying to make real and functional today something that has
aspects that we-- and we don't even know what's going to happen. Who knew we were going to
have scooters all over the streets about three years ago? So we need to give ourselves a little grace
and a little gentleness so that we, as a group of 15 human beings and I don't know how many staff
members, have some time to learn and to look at what might, as Director Folska said so well, what
might be new and possible.
And I have two more, and then I'll stop with my soapbox. Sorry. I think that Director Lewis is
exactly on the right path, that I think that we owe it to ourselves and to the public to have a problem
statement to begin with. I think the guiding principles, you know, groovy, groovy. We have a
mission statement that says we need to meet our constituents' present and future public transit
needs by providing-- are you ready? Come on, everybody-- safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the district.
And the second statement says, as a public agents, we are dedicated to serve the public and meet
the public's needs. So there's our guiding principles. I mean, I don't know that we need new guiding

principles. I think that we need to look at what we can do and what we can't do. And that's a
problem statement of what we can't do any more, and that's why we're here because there are things
that we cannot do. And I don't think it's wrong to say that.
And then the last thing I want to say is I really like the fact that we are a Board-driven-- I kind of
like the word "driven" since we're a transportation agency. But I don't think we need to state again
that we're Board-driven because we are. That's who and what we are and who we have been. Thank
you very much. Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I promise I won't say Board-driven more
than five more times tonight. I just-- the question arises, and there are Directors who say, well,
now, wait a minute. How come someone else is doing this? And the answer is, no one else is doing
this. This is a Board-driven process.
[LAUGHTER]
And that will become important as we get into another part of the discussion too. So I just want it
understood. As I say, I probably lied. It'll be more than five times. Director Broom, you are
recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to interject a cautionary note here. When I first got
on the Board, and it is still true today, our biggest problem at RTD is being short of drivers,
seriously short of drivers. If we continue on as we are today and don't improve on that with the
mandatory overtime that we require, we're going to burn all of our employees out. So we're going
to develop this really snazzy new system. And it's kind of like building a Ferrari, but we won't
have a driver left for it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom, for a very compelling observation.
Madam Treasurer, Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So a couple of the items that were brought up either here
by Director Buzek, the congestion, and in comments offered on a voluntary basis within the survey,
I think, are interesting. Because, first of all, on congestion relief, and that brought about a number
of head nods. So people agreed. The second one on local participation, that was mentioned by
three or four people. So my concern is had that been one of the options offered, either one of those,
they may well have been among the top.
So my point with that is that it would be more of a Board-driven process if, in fact, our two or
three Board members who are going to be the point people on this were already involved because
they may well have introduced those points of view. And in that way, we could have had clearer
results in this survey. So I just-- I hope we can get those people involved. I'm not seeking it. But I
think it would be better to have them involved now as some of this preliminary work is happening.
And then my second point is the coverage versus ridership. That was introduced in with a splash.
It's gained some purchase. It's obviously going to be part of the discussion. And I'm a little
uncomfortable with leaving it as sort of not defined.

And to the extent that we are going to be looking at it, I think having some idea of what we mean
by it, kind of along the lines of Judy Lubow's point, would be good. How did Houston define it?
Because I'm a little worried that, later on, we're going to say, well, it didn't percolate up in the
discussion. And therefore, we don't need to worry about it. But we won't have a sense of where we
are or how what we're doing later compares to it. So there we go.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you, Madam Treasurer. I think those are good points, and we will
have further dialogue relative to that. With your consent, Director Lubow and Director Catlin, the
Second Vice Chair has not spoken yet. So I want to recognize Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede at
this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This really is a very good presentation. And I've been thinking a
lot about what everybody said. And I think that there's been some amazing, poignant points of
view, like Director Folska. I agree with you, customers first. If we don't have any customers, if we
don't have any drivers-- I mean, we really have a lot of things.
And so when I look at the guiding principles, the one that keeps coming in my head is inclusivity
on a very broad range. And when I look at the Advisory Committee that's been put together, it's
pretty diverse. But I would propose an additional committee, and it would be a call to bus riders,
our bus drivers, our people who work on the streets, and in our buses, and around our communities,
and ask them if they'd like to sit on a committee to talk to us about their Reimagined because I
think that their perspective might be a little bit different. I think their vision might be a little bit
more broad. And I think it would be an inclusive process to show that this really is all of our
reimagination and not just a group of folks. So I would really like for you to consider that. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. And yes, we will be talking
in a moment about the Advisory Committee and the Technical Group in detail, and there will be a
presentation on that. And then I'll offer some comments. But thank you for talking about yet
another group that might weigh in. [COUGHS] Excuse Me. Let me go to Vice Chair, Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Chair Tisdale. With respect to the guiding principles, I kind of took
another look at them. And there are some, those that kind of percolate to-- they don't percolate to
the top. They bubble up to the top-- are guiding principles. But there are some others that aren't-that may not necessarily be guiding principles, but they may be as a result of. And here's an
example. System sustainability in ridership growth, how does that impact economically the region?
What are the economic benefits to implementing some of these guiding principles?
Now, another one might be, on some of the guiding principles, they could be a tool. Now, in what
ways do technology and innovation support some of these guiding principles? Those are just some
thoughts that I have. And to what extent do some of these guiding principles address the issue of

congestion relief? So I'm just throwing it out that there may be a way to group these, that some of
these are either byproducts or tools of some guiding principles, that we could further call them
down to something that you could work with. It's just a thought.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. And Director Lubow, you are
recognized again, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. OK, about the guiding principles, I felt that it was
kind of limiting to be asked for the top five. It was like an artificial distinction. Five-- why not six?
Why not four? And why not two? Well, for instance, I didn't mention economic benefits. I didn't
choose that. But I think one of the enormous benefits of FasTracks is the economic prosperity that
it's brought to the whole Denver area. And it's incredibly important. So whether or not it's in the
top five, it just needs to be addressed as part of this process.
Another issue that I wanted to talk about was the idea of service balance. And I guess I don't think
of it as balance. I think of it as fairness. Because balance implies a similarity. And we have
communities that have a few thousand and others that have millions. And there's not going to be a
balance, but there needs to be equity between them.
Oh, and one thing I would really like to stress learning from this discussion is that ridership versus
coverage is not going to be determinative. I mean, I thought it was determin-- I thought that's what
we were going to do. I thought we were going to do a two-year coming up with a ratio. And
apparently, we're not going to do that. And I think it's very important to stress to the public that
that's been misunderstood. That's about it. It won't be forever. I'll get back to you, I'm sure. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I appreciate your emphasis on that point
that this is not simply a process that we are engaging in over the course of the next year and a half,
two years to answer one question-- what's the magic number about ridership versus coverage?
That's not it. That's one discussion that will come up along with many. Mr. Secretary, Director
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So as I'm hearing the discussion, I want to make sure that I understand
it correctly, that these guiding principles are interrelated with each other. So all of them are
connected in some manner. So selecting one doesn't mean that that's an exclusive item and has no
effect on the other. Is that correct?
BILL SIROIS: I would say yes. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities. I
keep forgetting to do that. I apologize. Yes, I would agree that they all are interrelated. And I think,
through this discussion, we're hearing a lot of conversation about how they are all interrelated and
how, in fact, we need to look at them a little bit differently and new things we need to look at. And
we fully expected through this conversation that we were going to hear these types of comments
and that these weren't-- this wasn't the exact definition that we we're going to end up with at the
end of the day.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah, right. And so a grouping of five, six, four, however many, isn't an
exhaustive list. That's just a list. And that list has an effect on all of the other items that are
presented here. And we could always come up with more if we choose to. Right? Because we're
the Board, and we can do what we want to, kind of, within the confines of the law.
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter. Yeah. And to the point that I think I've heard from some
Board members, including Director Catlin, some of these could be identified not as a guiding
principle but as an important concept or a tool that we're addressing. And certainly, all of these are
going to have a level of importance throughout the study and of interest to our stakeholders, to our
citizens, and to the Board. Not prioritizing one as a guiding principle doesn't mean it would be lost.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And then the last thing I'll say about congestion again because that's-after FasTracks was complete-- or sorry-- after T-REX was completed, the longest conversations
I had about T-REX were, well, why is I-25 still jammed? So whatever we do here will not decrease,
and they'll guarantee that it will decrease congestion. The only thing that will do that is a declining
population. And I see that every time I go back home. I can get across town in 15 minutes now
where it used to take 45 to an hour to get across my hometown.
So anyway, so I just want to make that clear is that people are moving here, and people are still
moving here, maybe slower, maybe less, but people are still moving here. And as long as we still
want to have cars and some jurisdiction doesn't improve some stretch of highway, or road, or
something like that, there will be congestion. We might be able to help with a pinch point. But in
the region, there's still going to be prob-- there will always be problems somewhere as long as
people keep moving here until people start going away. And then in some areas, there will still be
problems just like back home. So anyway, that's it. Thank you again.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Gentlemen, if you will now lead us
through, packet page 19 is where you left off. And this is a discussion about Advisory Committee
and Technical Working Group because I know there's been a great deal of interest in the discussion
about Advisory Committee and the Technical Working Group. And if you can begin that
conversation, and I know Mr. Genova has some comments, and I have some comments, but let me
turn it to Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Again, Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities. Again, with
the Advisory Committee and the Technical Working Group, which I'll go over in a second, and
there was several questions, and I'll try to clarify on some. Because it is an interesting process to
try to pull together a group for a region-wide effort like this. You know, we-- I look back to
previous efforts. And we had a committee here a while back called the Union Station Advisory
Committee that was 96 members. I'm not sure we're trying to replicate that with this process. But
again, we do think these are really critical to this process and engaging our stakeholders in this
whole process because they're a really important part of our decision-making on this.
So with the Advisory Committee, the goal here is to look at about 30. We are not set on a number- but, with broad geographic representation, so we have a full kind of complement of our district
represented from a variety of different perspectives. But I think it's important that we want people
on this group that have some understanding and some experience with transportation and

transportation policy so they can provide that input as we move forward. And I think, again, we're
going to be looking at a lot of issues regionally. And again, it's important that they understand that
perspective as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Bill, for the records, could you read those 30, please?
BILL SIROIS: Excuse me?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I was just-DOUG TISDALE: The Director has a question. We'll get to questions in a bit. There are-- there
are not 30 people selected at this point.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This is not a question. It's a request for the record for our audience that's
blind.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. We will shortly go into some more detail. But let me let Mr. Sirois finish
his comments. And then we're going to have a dialogue and provide much greater detail.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. So again, Bill Sirois again. On the Technical Working Group side, again,
we're looking at a little bit different kind of person on that group, somebody who's got fairly
extensive experience in transportation planning, or funding, or operations, a lot of the issues that
we're going to be dealing with throughout this process, understanding, have some experts that can
help-- we can help bounce ideas off of and get some feedback from them. And again, here, we also
want broad geographic representation so, again, we represent all parts of the district.
So when thinking about this framework, and these committees, and how they're going to operate,
I think it's important. And I think the Board Chair made it very clear at the beginning, this is a
Board-driven process. And these committees are providing input to the process. Again, the way
we look at it is in this graphic I think that I'm going to bring up here in a second-- there-- really is
intended to say that they're going to provide that-- the Technical Working Group will provide input
on the analysis. That Advisory Committee provides that regional perspective on things. And then
that will be looked at by staff to help develop recommendations for the Board, for the Board's
consideration.
So in no way are we expecting the Advisory Committee or the Working Group to make any
decisions as part of this. Again, they're providing input throughout. And again, I think it's important
to look at them as a way to bring them along the process and making sure they understand it, as
the Board considers various alternatives and various decisions that they fully understand what's
involved with those, that decision-making. So that's important, I think, to understand just in terms
of fundamental to the process.
Now, in terms of the process that we have to appoint these, and I think there is was a little bit of
confusion on this. So this week actually, and that's-- we actually just sent our letters out on
Monday. So it was the slide, the first bullet is a little off. We just sent it out on Monday to

representatives of the groups that are identified below in terms of those groups. And I believe that
I sent out earlier through the Board Office a list of the people that were sent letters.
And in some cases, some of those people were asked to appoint somebody. And in some cases,
they were asked to apply. Because in many cases where we have-- and I'll use the example of the
chambers and the economic development folks. There is, I think, there's 12 or 13 folks that we had
listed in that list. And so we asked them to apply because we're looking at it, how do we fill out
this committee so it's well rounded, so it includes that perspective? We realistically aren't going to
have 13 members from that community on it. So we asked them to apply.
Alternatively, we looked at DRCOG and CDOT. They are very much our partners at a regional
level, and we wanted them to appoint somebody to serve on the Advisory Committee as well as
serve on the Technical Advisory Committee. So we will be working with them as well. So if you
look, I think, at the list that was sent out, the first few categories on that list are really ones that we
asked to primarily appoint people to the Advisory Committee. And the ones kind of from the TMA
down are really more of the appointed-- I mean-- excuse me-- applied variety where we're actually
asking them to apply the process.
BILL SIROIS: OK, so and I will-- so maybe I'll just go through, as Bill just jabbed me. Why don't
I just go through it with all of them so everybody understands how they were done. So with the
county and local jurisdiction elected officials, we used the-- and I think we mentioned this at the
previous meeting-- we used the Subregional Transportation Forum framework to ask for a
representative from each county to serve on this. Again, this will be expected to be elected officials
from those groups that will be designated by those groups to serve on the Advisory Committee.
We also elected that same group to ask for staff with under the kind of the criteria that I identified
before to apply for that because we fully expect that we're going to have multiple staff from
multiple jurisdictions within each county wanting to participate. We want to make sure that we
have the best complement of people on there. The RTD Board, we worked-- we will be working
with the Board Chair to look at to who those are appointed. The senior leadership, a General
Manager will be appointing those individuals that are serving on the committee.
DRCOG, we sent a letter and asked for an appointment through their Executive Director, Doug
Rex as well as members that would apply to serve on the Advisory Committee-- similarly, same
with CDOT. And then when we get to the TMA/TMO part, we asked them both to provide
applications for the Advisory Committee as well as the Technical Working Group. So these are
the TMAs and TMOs are-- serve a very important function for us because they provide that bridge
with the business community. And again, they're going to be a very important process. So they
could be serving on either the Advisory Committee and/or the Technical Working Group. We have
the union leadership identified, and they will be on the Advisory Committee. A CAC member will
be on the Advisory Committee as well.
The disability community, we have been having conversations with RTD's APCD Committee to
select representatives because, again, those individuals are already engaged in RTD issues. We felt
they were a committee that was already established, and they could provide that connection. On
the business leaders and chambers, we focused on those chambers that were kind of more regional

in nature. And again, it wasn't the exhaustive list of every single chamber within the region. But
we felt it was a very-- pretty representative in terms of the bigger players on the economic
development front and, again, asked them to apply to be on the Advisory Committee.
The community-based organizations was an interesting category because we were probably the
least aware of how to reach out. So we reached out to Mile High Connects, which we are very
familiar with and is very involved in the transit conversation, and came to a little bit of a different
approach here and that we were going to actually have an event. We're planning for mid-September
where we're going to use their mailing list of community-based organizations, and talk to them a
little bit about what the Reimagined process is so they understand a little bit, and then ask them to
apply kind of there on the spot so we can get a broad representation from that group.
And then the ped, bike, and environmental, again, we asked them, that kind of list of folks, to apply
to be on the Advisory Committee. The higher ed angle-- and again, I'll let Brian or Bill speak to
this because they're more familiar with that. Terry Ruhl who is part of the UATC?
BILL VAN METER: UTAC.
BRIAN WELCH: UTA-BILL VAN METER: Brian, you take it.
BRIAN WELCH: This is Brian Welch. Terry Ruhl has been working with the district now for over
a year on Mobility Choice Blueprint. He represents a consortium of Colorado School of Mines at
the University of Denver, Colorado State University, and the University of Colorado. And he will
be an excellent representative for the kind of things we're going to be tackling.
BILL SIROIS: And last, we had identified, and I think this may be a new addition, AARP. They
have been involved in some of our previous efforts, including the Pass Program Working Group,
and some efforts that I've been involved in, and very engaged on the transportation issue, and felt
that they were a group that was representative of the older kind of folks in the region. So we
identified them, and we had sent a letter to someone who's very familiar with RTD, former Mayor
Bob Murphy, who is now the Colorado State Director for AARP.
So the other thing I want to make sure that everyone understands is the Advisory Committee
process is not the only way we are going to engage our stakeholders and our public. We have a
variety of different issues. And I'll point out one that I know that came up in our last discussion,
which was the youth engagement. Again, we looked at should we have youth engaged on the
Advisory Committee and thought about it. In terms of the demographic that we want out of the
youth is probably that high school-age folk. And are they going to really be coming to a meeting
at 7:30 in the morning? And are they going to feel comfortable with a bunch of elected officials
and other high-- and we thought, you know, that may be not be the best way to engage that group.
So what we have been talking about, and we've talked with-- I know Pauletta isn't here tonight.
But Pauletta had raised some ideas from her experience in LA about engaging schools or groups,
youth groups, that can be involved throughout the process, so you can really be engaged. And we

would kind of work with them. They could almost look at it as a project. Again, we looked at that,
and we're working-- we're still working that out. But that's, again, a different way of engagement
that it's going to be kind of outside the Advisory Committee and the Technical Working Group
process.
We also have a variety of other things. And I think I heard it tonight about, how are we going to
get to our customers? One of the primary ways that we're going to get to our customers is we are
going to, especially those that aren't using our services, through a formal survey that we're going
to be doing at the beginning of next-- at the end-- I think it's the beginning of next year that will
hopefully help inform us as to, what are they thinking? What are their thoughts?
And we will be doing a series of public meetings. We also plan to have specific targeted listening
sessions that we will go out and speak with disadvantaged communities or other groups as we go
along the process. So again, we look at this as a very multilayered approach to engagement. It is
not just based on one single way of doing things. And I think that we are open at this point.
And one of the things that we want today, we want to take the input we received tonight and that
will-- we do plan to come back and provide a little bit more robust kind of picture of the
engagement plan at the next meeting in October but wanted to give you this. Because we know
that there's a high level of interest from the Board on this subject and wanted to give the opportunity
for the Board to provide input as we go through this process.
And also, as Bill identified, we do have a formal way that we are looking at employee engagement,
which again is a dem-- a kind of a group that traditionally may not be looked at as a part of our
process. But again, we think it's important. They are going to be some of the most knowledgeable
people about some of the issues that we're going to be dealing with, and how can we address them
best, and getting their feedback. So we're going to be using, again, a different approach on that
because we're going to be working with some of our Continuous Improvement Team who's got
some groups that they've set up with some front-line employees. We're going to be doing a series
of listening sessions with the employees as well. So that will be, again, another part of this whole
process, so again a multilayered approach.
So let me-- so this is to finish up and then open it up for questions. Again, we're looking at this.
And again, based on the discussion tonight, it may not be on adoption of guiding principles. It may
be a refinement. It may be addition. Again, it's going to be an ongoing dialogue. We're going to
introduce the fiscal and financial planning process, not any-- but just kind of the framework for
which we're going to look at. And then we're going to talk about this public and stakeholder
engagement plan that I just went through. So with that, I will open it up for questions about the
public engagement and approach.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And if I may to help frame the discussion because I
know there's a lot of interest, I have essentially a yes-or-no question for the General Manager. As
I understand the Advisory Group, it is intended to be a think tank, a resource, an information
source, an outreach mechanic, a communication device. It is not a decision-making body. It is not
a body that is providing a recommended plan. It is not an advocacy group. It is not the Pass Program
Working Group. Yes or no?

DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager Genova. And thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have
a couple comments, questions, statements, whatever. I think, first of all, that a large number of the
people that I see on this list are people who came from the Pass Program Working Group. So there,
I think that's probably a good thing there. They're used to working with RTD and in looking at
what is good for their constituents. So I'm good with that.
And that leads me right to, I think, the biggest failing that I see here is that we are looking for the
future. And I don't see DPS on here. I don't see Aurora, I don't see the people who got the future
on here. I see AARP, which is maybe the other end of the spectrum. And I'm down with that, being
a member myself. But I think that we are totally dropping the ball if we don't look at who is the
future of transportation.
And then under bike, ped, and environmental, I don't know if y'all are aware of this or not, but all
three of those people are members of the Denver Streets Partners. And so you have the organization
represented like three times. There are some members of the Denver Streets Partnership who are
not on that list, like me. But that's OK. I see Downtown Denver Partnership on here twice. They're
on the front page and the back page. I see Denver County on here twice. So I think those are
interesting.
I see 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 TMAs, but I don't see any of the LCCs, which are the Local Coordinating
Councils. The TMAs are kind of baby organizations of DRCOG. And the LCCs are the county
regional organizations, human service transportation-based that fall under CDOT. So I don't know
why you'd have seven TMAs and no LCCs. And I think that might be all. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And I appreciate those observations. Any comment from
the panel?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. One comment I'll make, I think on a couple of those, Denver
County, again there's two contacts for that committee. So we didn't send two letter-- I mean, we
sent two letters, but it's for the same expectation. Similarly, for the Partnership, again, they were
kind of in both categories. Again, the way I look at this is that we're not asking them to appoint.
Again, they're going to have to apply. So we'll consider them as well as other people in this process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification. I think that's important to be understood. This
is not a list of people who will be appointed. It's a group of people who are invited to apply and
will be considered.

KATE WILLIAMS: And I was taking that as my-- just I was geared toward asking people who
were not on here, which I think is partly what we're looking for. But I just did want to point out
that I noted those other things because I like to talk.
DOUG TISDALE: And join the club. Madam Vice Chair, Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank You, Chair Tisdale. This is quite an exhaustive list. And I recognize that
because some people appear on here twice it's because, like Director Williams, they wear a couple
different hats. So that didn't concern me.
But it did occur to me that this list is very, very much inside baseball. And it's people that are
employed, engaged, and are advocates for certain transportation positions. And would it be helpful
or beneficial to try and seek some folks who are outside of this circle, even though it's a pretty big
circle, to provide a fresh look, some fresh ideas, maybe somebody who doesn't ride. Maybe get
that perspective.
There are also a number of people that I am familiar with, because I'm of that age, who are retired
and have a great deal of expertise and would have the time to devote to such an effort, that have
some of that expertise that you're seeking. Maybe they have worked in other communities that may
be willing and able to provide some real thoughtful insight. And a couple of people come to mind,
although they haven't expressed an interest. So I would-- I might talk offline with you guys about
some people that I'm thinking of. But they may be able to devote the time and also provide some
of that perspective outside of the stadium, if you will. So-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. And I take it the panel is open to the idea of
having other people apply, not just this list. Because, again, these are not appointments. These are
applications that staff would then look at to see who was appropriate. Director Folska, you are
recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you very much, Bill, for reading that list.
I do appreciate it. And I also appreciate very much Director Williams' and Director Catlin's
comments. And in particular, I think more importantly, Director Catlin's comment about outside
of the stadium is so important. Otherwise, we're just going to be doing the same thing over, and
over, and over again. We do need fresh eyes.
And to Director Williams' perspective on the youth, I don't see why we couldn't have a youth
contest over the internet for every single kid in the school district, in the RTD District to see what
they think. They can have communities vote. You can break it down into smaller communities.
We did a very successful job with that with the original art contest. But young people haven't had
their imaginations stomped out yet. And so they really can come up with some creative, innovative
things.
I mean, who thought Elon Musk would be doing what he's doing? And he certainly didn't get
everybody on the inside stadium telling him how to do it. And that's crazy that he did it, but he
did. And we can too. But I think him-- and the other thing, look at those Parkland kids. They

organized themselves the largest march on the Mall ever, even bigger than Martin Luther King, Jr.
And those kids are now voting.
So if you want people to keep voting for a sales tax or a sales tax increase, that's the population.
Get those young people engaged. Let them feel like a part of our district, and that they have a stake
in it, and that we care about them, and what they think matters. That's our future. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. I think those are exceptional
observations. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I didn't see the military listed anywhere on here. The VA
Hospital in Aurora has-- that's from all over the metropolitan area, going in there once a month or
so for either treatments or to see a doctor and that type of thing. Buckley Air Force Base is one of
the biggest employers in the metropolitan area. And there are other military installations around. I
don't know the extent that they'd be interested in getting involved with this. But I think they should
be given an opportunity to apply. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director-- appreciate that. Director Lubow, you are
recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. You know, I'm struck. I'm really struck by how totally different
this is than the application process for the CAC where it's thrown open to the public, and we get
the most incredible group of people who are just passionate about transit on their own. They're not
within the stadium or whatever. They just-- it's just a passion of theirs.
And every year, because I've been on the damn committee every year for a while, and you just see
this incredible group of interested folks who have their own points of view-- well, some of them
disabled, some of them whatever. They're all different. We're missing all of that. We don't ask for
it.
Instead, we have this little group of people that all kind of look alike, in a way. I mean, it's the
same type of professional. And I think we should open it up. And I understand that it's risky. Just
like with the CAC, we spent a lot of time trying to find people, winnowing them down. But I think
what you got was a breath of fresh air, really. And I think that would be useful.
And that leads me to a question. I know that the CAC was an organization that's listed here. And
so it's my understanding that it wasn't sent to each of the members of the CAC but, instead, to
Roger Sherman. And I'm wondering, what is he going to do with it? Is he asking them? Or is he
going to appoint?
BILL SIROIS: We were going to bring it to the-- excuse me. This is Bill Sirois. We were planning
to bring it to the committee to ask them to select a representative. It was meant that Roger was just
the point of contact. That's all it meant.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Thank you. And I did want to say that is I would have appreciated it as a
Board member being told that this committee is open. And if I happen to know people that I

thought might be good candidates too, I might refer them to this process. I'm interested in this
subject. And I think a lot of us are. So I think it's a little too exclusive, this process that we're in. I
wish it were more inclusive.
And I have one question that's totally different, and perhaps we'll answer it some other time, but
which is, where does finishing FasTracks come into any of this? It's not about the applicants, but
just generally into this study.
DOUG TISDALE: And I don't know if that's a rhetorical question or if it's [INAUDIBLE]. And
actually, Mr. Sirois and Mr. Van Meter both said that that is part of what RTD is committed to
doing. And I think it was Mr. Sirois who commented at length about that, but that this process is
to say, as we do that, because that is a narrowed task now, the uncompleted corridors, one of which
is very important to you, I know, and one of which is very important to me, beyond that, what are
we doing? And that's what this process is.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: In no way does that take away from the importance of or the commitment to
the completion of FasTracks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So the Committee Working Group process, tell me again what
kind of a schedule of meetings you expect somebody to be able to commit to, please, and including
what time of day. Will it be in the evening? Will it be at 7:00 AM? When? Will it be at 2:00 PM?
What can you tell me?
BILL SIROIS: Sure. This is Bill Sirois. For the Advisory Committee, we have tentatively
established a meeting time of the second Thursday at 7:30 in the morning, so from 7:30 to 10:00
in the morning. For the Working Group, we have established a time of 2:30 to 4:30 on the second
Wednesday. And we are planning to meet every other month through the course of this process
with the idea that there are likely going to be a few meetings thrown in between to deal with some
time-related subjects. So we're probably at about 15 meetings over the course of the two years.
NATALIE MENTEN: 15 meetings, OK. And I'm sorry. Is that between the two different times?
You said second Thursdays at 7:00 A-- 7:30 AM. And then I'm sorry. That was-- what's going to
be at 2:30 to 4:30?
BILL SIROIS: The Technical Working Group meetings.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. OK. Because I know in the past when I've engaged with some fellow
transportation planners, especially those that are outside the government realm, when they hear
these commitments, they're like, you've got to be kidding me? You want me to go spend two years
doing this? I've been to enough government meetings.

And of course, the time of the day, I mean, I was going to crack joke. Did we call the-- have we
called the clergy? Or have we invited them? Have we invited the NRA? You know, this long list
of people that we could include just because it's gotten to that point-- all right? But it makes me-it does make me wonder why not go to a Walmart and ask to talk to the guy who's making $10,
$11 an hour and working odd shifts?
I've got a guy, Eric. He's contacted me every six months since I've been on the Board because we
had-- I thought we were going to create changes to the 100 route and the 16 so that, on Sundays,
he could get from Simms and 6th Avenue to his Walmart job. And that was supposed to be part
of, I thought, the G-line. And now it's come, and I don't think we've done it.
But that makes me think of-- I know I'm getting back into a little bit of Mr. Walker's presentation.
But they talked about expansion of weekends, anyway, and how that was actually beneficial. And
one wouldn't think that volume was there. But my point being with the Committee Working Group
process, because that's a subject that we're on, I've just seen too many of these meetings where
there are too many people at the table who are earning a government paycheck, and they live within
their own world. And it's not the 7:00 PM meeting that Mrs. Jones, who has three kids and works
as a maid at La Quinta, could make the meeting. But she's dependent on that transportation because
she's got three kids.
But so that's my only comment. I really hate to see you add on to the group. But I also do know
that I'm just seeing tired of seeing too many of these meetings with somebody getting a government
paycheck, and they're the ones that can get time off from work and attend a 7:30 AM meeting or
2:30 PM meeting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Let me just respond to that briefly if I may. If
you look at page 18 of the packet-- it's packet page 20. You'll note that for the Advisory Committee,
we're actually looking for people who have extensive knowledge and experience with
transportation policy, and that would exclude some of the others. But we are absolutely looking
for what Director Menten has described. And that's what the other public outreach is and getting
those other groups. Am I correct on that, Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Yes. This is Bill Van Meter. Chair, you went exactly where I was going to
go. A subsequent slide references those additional engagement opportunities. We have an
extremely robust stakeholder and community engagement plan, as Bill Sirois mentioned earlier.
We'll be reviewing that with the Board in October. But focus groups, small group listening
sessions, partnering with schools-DOUG TISDALE: And that's this.
BILL VAN METER: --formal surveys, speaker bureau presentations, public meetings, online
interactive tools and questionnaires, specific targeted outreach to disadvantaged communities-that's not a comprehensive list. We recognize as well that people have those same constraints. For
our Advisory and Technical Committees, we need that level of commitment so that people can
start to understand and provide technical guidance, and advice, Advisory Committee input to the
staff and the Board that's at the same level of understanding and sophistication that we expect the

Board to have in making these decisions. And the way they develop that is by being engaged over
a long period of time, showing up regularly, and really having to make that level of time
commitment.
And so there are some constraints built into it that we have to expect in order to be able to support
your decision-making process. The other voices that you identified are as or more important, which
is why we have a very robust stakeholder and community engagement plan. And you'll hear more
about that in a couple months-- so recognize exactly those issues.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And for the convenience of the Board, and that's your packet page
25 or page 23 of the presentation.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I-DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Director Menten. Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: --follow up with them? Thank you. I'm glad to hear that. I think if we're
going on a listening tour, then ask Walmart. Let's head up in the employee break room. You know?
Do they get breaks? Is that what I heard?
[LAUGHTER]
[IINTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: I think they're following the law.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: And I would love to dedicate a little bit of time at the upcoming town hall,
telephone town hall, just perhaps to some of those talking poi-- you know, our town halls are
sounding like canned speeches. So let's have some good interaction on those. And that's all I
wanted to say is thank you very much on the response.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Men-NATALIE MENTEN: We're not going to have canned speeches anymore?
PAULETTA TONILAS: No more canned speeches. I'm not for the canned speeches. And so, yes,
I do want to-DOUG TISDALE: Miss Tonilas, if you-PAULETTA TONILAS: --answers
DOUG TISDALE: --a name, please.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Oh, I'm sorry. Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager of
Communications. So actually, the telephone town hall meetings are going to be one of our first
engagement opportunities as part of this whole engagement program. And so you all should be
scheduled or will be soon. Barbara and her team I know have been working to get you guys
scheduled for those. We'll be doing those in October. So that and the online engagement tool that
our consultant team is developing right now are going to be two of the first things that we do to
launch the engagement program.
And so you guys are going to absolutely have that opportunity. That will be the focus of the
telephone town halls-- I think, obviously, if you want to talk about other things too. But in my
opinion, the best way to operate the telephone town halls is to keep them very organic, and
conversational, and not be too scripted. Obviously, we want to educate people about what
Reimagine is, what we're trying to achieve, and get right into hearing from people, and do some
of the electronic polling with some very high-level questions that we could gauge some gut instinct
from the public in your district to get some comments. So absolutely, that is the intent. And that's
why we held off holding the town hall meetings until we started our engagement process for this.
So, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Miss Tonilas. We appreciate that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Cook, you are recognized, Madam Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Bill Sirois, first of all, I have to represent my district here. Arvada
is-- I don't know-- sixth-largest city, fifth, something like that, in the whole district. And it is in a
wedge that is not represented by any TMA. So I'm worried that there is no opportunity for direct
or indirect representation from the whole community, which goes basically from I-70 and Van
Bibber over into the hills and from Sheridan-Wadsworth north to the Boulder County line. It's a
big area. So that fact, the fact that there is no Chamber of Commerce invitation, that sort of thing,
so I'm just sorry to be a little parochial, but I am very worried that there's not an opportunity for
any representation by the entire community.
And then the second thing is just food for thought, kind of responding a little bit to what Natalie
Menten had suggested. One way to get that workforce input and to do more than that would be to
engage with the-- I don't know what you want to call them-- the redevelopment community, the
community that can do the densities that we want. That might be housing authorities, urban
renewal authorities, redevelopment agencies, a developer or two that does this sort of thing well.
So just food for thought is garnering some input or incorporating them from-- into this process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer-- appreciate that. Director Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: You have a LCC in your area.
DOUG TISDALE: Wait. What?

KATE WILLIAMS: She has a LCC in her area.
DOUG TISDALE: LCC?
Yes. That's a good point.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. OK. We have an editorial observation that's made. And we'll
supplement the record as appropriate when you can expand and supplement your remarks. Director
Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And has staff presentation concluded?
DOUG TISDALE: Staff presentation has concluded.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so everything's fair game now.
[LAUGHTER]
I want to go back to some of this stuff. OK. One comment on the Advisory Committee to the extent
someone made a comment that it looks like the same members of the Pass Program Working
Group. I hope it's not. We need to change things up, and I know other people have said that as
well.
And I know we're at a very preliminary stage with all this, and we're just beginning, and it's going
to come back to us, and we're in charge. And I understand all of this. But I want to make a couple
of comments. And I have to agree with comments made by Directors Catlin and Cook that goes to
this ridership coverage concept. We had this Jarrett Walker come in to give us some ideas. And as
Director Cook said, it's really made a splash and has gotten traction to the extent that that's what's
being reported by Streetsblog, and by CPR, and everything else that RTD is taking on this ridership
coverage ratio thing.
Just to be clear, this Board has never said, that's what we're doing. We have never adopted that as
the cornerstone framework of the analysis for Reimagining RTD. It may be a piece of it and may
be part of it. But I just want to make sure that we're not saying, this is what we're doing. Because
after hearing Jarrett Walker's presentation, I could see the draw to that kind of an analysis because
it's easy. It's just geometry. Isn't that what he said? It's the numbers. And based on the numbers,
here's what we do. It's real simple. It doesn't take into consideration all kinds of other things.
And he used the Houston model as an example. And so I went and pulled all the Houston data
from their website-- completely different place. I mean, it's 1,000 square miles smaller than the
RTD District. They've got an appointed Board of Directors that aren't-- arguably aren't beholden
in the same fashion as we are to constituents, so a little bit different. So I agree with the fact that
this is not our cornerstone framework and the only analytic we're going to use. And I hope that's
accurate. I also have to agree with Director Guissinger when she talked about the service balance
and how, in the survey, it scored really low. But in the CPR article, every Director mentioned it
as, oh, it's really important.

So I guess what I'm getting at when it comes to these guiding principles, I think they all need to
be guiding principles. I don't think we can pick five. And I agree with Director Lubow. It's an
artificial distinction. And because one, or two, or three, or four, or five didn't rise to the top and
break out, that tells you that there's a lot of interest in all of these things. So I don't think it would
be unwieldy to have all of these as being guiding principles.
Also, on page 21, we have this decision-making process slide. And I know, Chair Tisdale, you said
that the Board is going to be involved, and it's a board-directed thing, and so forth. But if all I knew
was this handout, I would believe that the RTD Board is only engaged twice in the process-- now
in initial direction, and then, after everything gets done, it comes back to us for making a decision.
Because that's what the diagram says. I'm guessing that we're going to be involved in more steps
along the way. To the extent that we are, maybe we could spell that out a little more clearly, at
least for my benefit so I feel more important. But-[LAUGHTER]
Because I'm feeling kind of left out right now. But other than that, I'm looking forward to seeing
how this fleshes out and moves forward. Thanks, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director. And I will fall on my sword. I have done a
very poor job-- oh, I'll recognize the General Manager in a second. I've done a very poor job in
emphasizing once again when I say it is a Board-driven process. It comes back to us monthly
according to the plan that has been presented to us. We will be updated constantly. We will steer
this process. We will drive this process. We will move this process.
The shorthand I use is it's a Board-driven process. The graphic is simply to show the overall impact.
It is not to show that there are two steps. And I take full responsibility and blame for not having
made that clear that it is a totally Board-driven process. Mr. General Manager.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to, regarding the first, I would say, the first
third of your comments, Director Buzek, as far as conversations going, you are absolutely correct.
The RTD Board has not made a statement about a ratio of ridership versus coverage. The
information that was brought forward was simply examples of what's been done elsewhere and
one approach. So I just wanted to confirm that.
You're correct. The Board's never-- the collective Board's not made that statement, nor has the
staff said that's where we're headed. And I even said that night during that Tuesday night study
session that these are simply examples. These are approaches that other agencies have used. And
depending on how we work our process and the decisions we make, it could look differently. SoVINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification. And again, I just say, you know, the reporters are
calling us, saying, what's the ratio you want? Well, wait a minute. We haven't even-- that's not
what we're-- anyway.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. We feel your pain. Believe me. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have three quick points. The first one is around
diversity. So as I look at this list, and know it's not comprehensive, but I would really like to stress- I'm sure, like the rest of the Board members-- that we really need to do a thorough job of ensuring
that we have race represented, socioeconomic class represented. And just like what's missing here
is your everyday citizen as Director Menten has pointed out-- and so really being intentional about
how we design these things to be truly inclusive of experiences and backgrounds. That's my first
point.
This weekend, I spent quite a bit of time with our operators, our mechanics, and service cleaning,
about three hours. And they spoke a lot about the operator experience. They spoke a lot about the
six-day mandate. And I think one of the things that I haven't seen here is how we are including
them in this process, if it's in the guiding principles, if it's as stakeholders. I'm not sure, but it's not
clear to me where they fall within this conversation.
And the last thing I wanted to say, as we're looking at the evaluation-- well, actually, I have a
question for you all. The evaluation criteria, so if I'm an applicant, I put in my application. You all
have a committee of some sort. How are you evaluating folks to be appointed to the Advisory
Committee or the Technical Working Group?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. I'll take a first crack at that. So we have a few folks, like I said,
that are going to be appointed, so the county representatives, some of the RTD staff, the CDOT
staff, and the DRCOG staff. Beyond that, it's mostly going to be application based. And the whole
notion of that, once we get those appointees designated, is to fill that out to fill out the goals of
geographic representation and demographic diversity. So those are going to be two primary in
addition to their experience and understanding of the issues, so we will be looking at that.
We will develop a whole matrix of categories in terms of looking at it, so we get a well-rounded
group. That's the intent and the focus of what we're trying to do. Similarly, I think on the Technical
Working Group, I'll just take a first shot then let Brian follow up. But we're going to be looking
primarily geographic representation on that, again, focused on expertise from them on the different
areas that we're going to be covering as part of the process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So I'm curious. When you say geographic representation, are you
talking about looking at geographical data for the entire district and being able to break that down
by race, by income, and then ensuring that the committee that is selected is representative based
on those details?
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. We're not going to go into that level of detail but making sure
that we have all areas of the district represented, and that means broadly. I don't mean that we're
going to cover every single jurisdiction or every single area. But we will be having-- making sure
all areas of the district are represented and that we will be looking at the racial makeup of our
district, and our riders, and looking at that, and trying to be reflective of that as we can.

I don't think we can guarantee that we can be exactly reflective just because of the type of people
that we are asking to be on this. But again, we are looking to populate this with some different
perspectives than we would normally get on this kind of a committee. So I think that we will have
that ability to get some of that diversity there that we've talked about.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So as you all are evaluating the folks who would potentially be on either of
the two committees, you'd know who was missing, and then you go back to figure out how to get
that representation back. And-BILL SIROIS: We fully expect that we're going to have to go out and supplement this because we
may be missing people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you so much. Go ahead, Bill.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. Just to be clear, you mentioned income. We will not
be asking income questions. Those are always very difficult ones to get responses to. So that is
likely not going to be one that we have a good understanding in terms of diversity-- income. But
all the other demographic measures and topic areas that you described are part of that
consideration.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I guess my inquiry is, how will we solve for or how will we know? It's
a different experience to make $10,000 a year than to make $100,000 a year.
BILL SIROIS: Right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And so how do we know that we have a good cross section of-KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --folks, cross section of folks on the committee or the Technical Working
Group?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. So one thing that we are going to do on that-- I touched
on it earlier-- again, working with Mile High Connects, who, again, has a lot of experience in
working with community-based organizations and community-based organizations that serve
those kind of communities. Again, our intent is to help get that perspective through that process of
working with them and their mailing list of people that are interested and engaged in this kind of
subject to be members of the Advisory Committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I will say I know a lot of nonprofit folks reached out to me and other
Directors after-- for the LiVE Program. And so I wonder if you all kept a list of those folks who
may have reached out as a starting point to be able to connect with those nonprofits.
BILL SIROIS: Yes. This is Bill Sirois again. Yes. And we did have, again, a meeting with the
nonprofits a few weeks ago again. And we have-- I think we have that list, and we have a broader
list that we invite into that meeting as well.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I did just want to clarify the record on one thing because I
think, Director Lewis, you might have said that there wasn't an invitation for employees. Union
leadership, the President of the Union was invited to put someone on this group, at least one person.
So that has been done. I don't know that that was commented on by Mr. Sirois or Mr. Van Meter.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yet that wasn't actually my question. With the operators, it was about the
guiding principles. And I wanted to know how they showed up throughout this plan. So as we're
looking at the timeline, how are we engaging employees throughout this plan?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right, that's very helpful. And I think the staff is appropriately
directed in terms of following up on that. Thank you. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, gentlemen, for this presentation. I
just want to say that I'm in strong agreement with Director Buzek with minimizing the membership
overlap from the Pass Program Working Group. And then just an observation, I guess I'm a little
concerned with the potential creep in size of these two groups. If we took everybody's suggestions,
I think we've at least tripled or maybe more than they-- maybe more than that. Do you anticipate
capping these groups at about 30 and about 20 just to make them-- just to, I would say, for
effectiveness reasons?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. That's the goal. We haven't said that we are absolutely-could we have 35? Could we have 40 on the Advisory Committee? We may have to get there. We
don't know. But our goal is shooting for 30 and 20 on the Technical Working Group.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. That's all I got. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Walker, Mr. Secretary, you are
recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I am wondering if the freight industry is represented in any of the
Chambers of Commerce, so like the trucking industry, or railroads, et cetera. And the reason I'm
asking is because a lot of-- it's one of the benefits, I guess direct benefits, to the freight industry is
that the more drivers that-- or the fewer cars on the road, the quicker they can get goods from A to
B to C to D. Do you know, does anyone know, if those industries are parts of or members of
Chambers of Commerce, or BNSFs, or-- no. OK. We can find out.
DOUG TISDALE: Look. I'm going to say that the Chair will weigh in and note that. I do know
that Denver Metro Chamber, yes, does have some of the trucking companies as members. And as
I recall, so does South Metro. I don't know about the other chambers.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. And then I'm also interested in what the operators, mechanics, et
cetera have to say. And as was pointed out earlier, ATU was sent a letter to get that. But whenever
we have a big decision or certain decisions on the Board, I always go back and ask whoever is

driving me home that night, what did you think? And so looking for some kind of response and
how it affects the people that are responsible for getting me home safely.
I am wondering if the structure of RTD is up for discussion. I've heard comments that, does RTD
need to exist as it is? It doesn't need to be 2,400, 2,300 square miles? It doesn't need to be an
elected Board? Should it still an elected Board? There have been other Boards that have been
shaken up in my time. Around the country, a couple of them have just been dissolved and started
over again. I'm not suggesting that. I'm just wondering if that's been-- or if that is up for discussion
also.
And then I also-- I think that the members of these committees need to ride the system at least a
couple times a week regularly. Because if they're going to help craft it, what it will be in some
point, they need to experience it as it is today. I'm fortunate enough where I can-- where I get to
do that. But I think everybody should do that to actually experience and see what can be improved,
what connections, the payment, the fare collection, and what that experience is like for the folks
who ride it all the time, you know, the ones that we're serving, for whom we're doing this process.
And that's all I got. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much, Director. And I know that, for example, some of
what you addressed relative to, for example, the size of the district is actually one of-- and I don't
see it specifically right now, but it's one of the topics that's listed in the timeline. Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Yes. Bill Van Meter. You are correct, Chair. So an examination of the district
boundaries, should they expand with the expanding growth of the metropolitan area? Should they
contract? What's an appropriate size is one of the pieces of the mobility plan for the future, which
is a subset of Reimagine RTD. So that is included.
We are not wading into the composition of governance or the existence of the RTD Board. We are
accepting as a given the core current governance structure and have no intent to wade into that sort
of discussion or dialogue were it to come up. I think we would not want to touch it with a 10-foot
pole.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I really appreciate Director Mihalik's perspective
on creep of these advisory groups, the Technical Working Group, and so forth. However, when
you think about it in context of Union Station and 90 people being there, I mean, this is a $4.7
million investment for two years and, I think, is worthy of as many voices at the table that are
meaningful as possible. Because that's what's going to get us to the future of what we're want to
do. And again, the future does rest with our young people, honestly.
To Director Walker's Point, and I do know there is an Intermodal Transportation Institute at the
University of Denver. We call it DU. And Andy Goetz is a professor there. He's very highly

regarded in the transportation field and knows quite a bit about it. You guys know who he is, I'm
sure. And he's in the geography department there. I would encourage you to reach out to him.
And I think Director Walker's perspective about freight is really important. Because you could do,
let's say, for example, to finish FasTracks sooner rather than later some partnership with a freight
and passenger thing. It used to be, back in the day, and Bruce Abel reminded me of this years ago,
that RTD did deliver freight as well as passengers. And so when you're looking at what we're doing
and moving things that those folks have a real good idea.
And I do know from my time spent over at the Institute that these folks who are doing just-in-time
delivery on trains, seconds matter in their logistics. And the biggest problem they have is when the
train gets to dropping the goods off, and it loads onto a truck, and the truck is stuck on I-25. So
maybe Target and Walmart would like to pay you or RTD some portion of revenue to help us
further our goals so that they might get their own trucking lane, like a BRT trucking lane or
something like that.
Oh, and finally, at the University of Colorado Boulder is the Coleman Institute. And they have a
lab called the Lifelong Learning and Design Lab. And I really encourage you to reach out to them
as well. They have a lot of really smart people. And what they're really working on is having the
end-user experience begin the conversation as you begin to architect the foundation of your new
change. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. There's a-- hearing everybody else's, of course, got
me thinking. And there's a couple cool places like NREL's here, National Renewable Energy Lab.
I would think their input would be relevant to us as a transit agency. And like I said, over at CDOT
on this emerging mobility, they have all kinds of people. They have the local Automobile
Association people. And so you might-- and I think the list of that, those people, are publicly
available. You might just want to look at that kind of thing.
And then to everybody's point, we have some-- like we have Arrow, people that were on Mobility
Choice. Some of those agencies really are looking at the future. And Arrow has-- you can walk up
to the truncated domes, Claudia. And it senses your weight-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: --and changes the light. So, yeah. So we-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We might want to look at some Panasonic-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

KATE WILLIAMS: --some of the technology agencies that are looking toward the future and
including some of that outlook. That's all. Thank you. You guys did a great job. Bill, you did a
great job the other day. Thank you for this presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. In terms of Board comments, it looks like
Director Menten will take us out.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, OK. Thank you. Yes. What are all the surveys that we have on the
reasons people do not ride? Can you get those all together? I know I did one at a town hall that I
didn't want to do our canned poll. And I wanted one, why don't you ride?
BILL SIROIS: Again, this is Bill Sirois. I am not specifically sure. I know that I've talked with our
market research group, which they've said, through our customer satisfaction surveys, there usually
is data on non-riders. And we've talked about looking at that data as we prepare this specific survey
for this effort. Because, again, our focus for that survey is going to be on the non-rider, to people,
why aren't they using RTD? And what would get them to use RTD? So we are going to be using
that. I don't know those specific surveys that we've done other than, in some customer satisfaction
surveys, we have looked at those, that category of folks. But I can talk with Jeff Tranguch and the
folks in Communications to see if they have any other information.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I would think our-- the very well-paid consultant team would want
that. And I'm just tell you, from my point of view, there's no way in the world that I'm going to
spend another two hours a day working to get somewhere and not have freedom in a vehicle. And
that's where a lot of people-- and you already know that.
BILL SIROIS: Mhm.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right? I mean, if you work next to it, you live next to it-- otherwise, you're
at two hours additional a day away from family, home, TV, your dog, whatever it may be. So I
just hope that we know the major-- there's a majority of people, whether it's safety, security,
convenience, perhaps a cost, all these different things that they're-- in some ways that we're never
going to get them riding public service. And that's fi-- public. That's fine. We shouldn't be shooting
for the moon like that.
So that's what I wanted to close out with is that while we have our limited resources, and we've
got enough problems without going and trying to change people-- so if you could put together any
of those past results for my people though. All right? And then I don't want to take up more time
tonight but just would like to know some of the initial thoughts on how would you reach out to
people because I know you would want some fresh data.
I mean, would you go hit people as they're coming out of the King Soopers? Because there's pretty
obvious when you're carrying groceries home. Outside of whatever type of a store, is that how we
would hit them up? Mailing them is far too expensive. It needs to really be a one-on-one. Because
I know it's in the plan. And so I'm not requesting it in this $4.7 million thing. But that's all.

Whatever you've gotten on that data, I would love to see it. I think I know the answers, really, but
love to see the hard copy. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. And the additional engagement opportunities are
reviewed briefly in this presentation, and so we've already seen what they are proposing. So we
appreciate that. And we're not here-- I don't want you to think that we're here to get into the weeds
with you and say, OK, we want three mailings. We want them done on Thursdays, and so forth.
That's up to you. Mr. Genova, let me give you the last word on this important topic regarding our
Transportation Transformation overview and the specific process of Reimagining RTD.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, I'll be very brief. And we really appreciate all the dialogue tonight. This
is exactly what we had hoped for, to have a really open, candid discussion. And that's what we
received, and we'll take everything back, and put our heads together on it, and work on what we'll
be bringing back to you. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you Mr. Genova. And thank you Brian, Bill, and Bill. Gentlemen, you've
been an exceptional panel, and we appreciate that. Yes. Give it up for them. That's fine. I like that.
[APPLAUSE]
Are there any other matters to come before the Board at this time in this study session? Yes,
Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I would just like to thank Christina and Kim. They
accompanied me to a community event in Montbello a weekend or two ago. And I just really
appreciate them taking a Saturday away from their families and their kids to hang out with me in
the Montbello community. It meant a lot to the folks who were able to attend the event.
I also wanted to-- yes, this makes you happy. I also wanted to talk to the other Directors on the
Board. So I had the opportunity to spend about three hours-- and that's a lot for me because I'm an
introvert-- with operators, and mechanics and service and cleaning about their experiences. And I
learned a great deal. And so, Bill, you mentioned nuances. And I think that's a perfect word for
transportation. And so I would encourage the other Directors to, if you all have the time to be able
to chat with those folks, I think it would really be beneficial as we're moving into the Reimagine
RTD. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lewis. We appreciate that. Thank you very much. Seeing
at this time then no further discussion, this meeting is adjourned as of 8:50-- I'm sorry-- 7:50 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you all very much.

