2023-02-23
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is-- good morning. This is the Thursday, February 23 Executive Committee
meeting. It will now come to order. We're convened as of 10:02 AM. I respectfully ask everyone attending
the meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you for joining us this morning.
Please note that until further notice, the official meetings of the RTD Directors will be held remotely via
Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings with the unofficial minutes of the
meeting will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd.com. And a livestream of
this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
I'll now call the role. First Vice Chair Catlin. Good luck to Peggy. She's got some things going today.
Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Chair Guissinger. I am here. Other Directors in attendance, I see Kate
Williams, Director Williams, Director Tisdale. Are there others?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal, great. I also see staff. Ms. Johnson, Ms. Snell, Ms. KnappRhodes, Ms. Hunter, Ms. Snyder, and Mr. Davies.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either
raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If
you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. I will go through all the instructions if we have
anyone wanting to speak. Jillian, is there anybody wanting to speak?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: There is no one in the queue. And we received no emails.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, then I'm going to skip all the instructions. Were there-- oh, you received no
emails. OK, good. Let's see.
There's one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon. The first recommended action is 2023
scheduled for in-person and remote meetings, for the Board of Directors to approve the 2023 schedule for
in-person and virtual meetings. In adopting the schedule, the Board anticipates holding all standing and

ad hoc committee meetings virtually and holding monthly Board meetings, special Board meetings, and
study sessions in person at the 1660 Lake Street offices, commencing with the March 28 Board meeting,
unless otherwise determined by the Chair in consultation with the Executive Committee. Do we have a
motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Davidson and Director Dishell. Is there any discussion on this
item?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I would just-- unless I missed it, if it's permissible to Council just adding a note
that says that the in-person meetings will still have a hybrid or virtual option for public participation, sort of
clarifying that we don't need people to come down to Lake Street to participate. If we could add that to the
discussion section, that would be great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any comments, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think that's appropriate, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. I agree. All right, we will do that. Are there any no votes on this action? Any
other discussion of this? All right, with four yes votes and zero no votes and no abstentions, that motion
passes.
The script has gone away. Let's see, see if I can find the agenda. Pardon me. Give me just a second.
Here it is.
February Board meeting agenda review-- and I don't have the-- hang on one second. Let me get into it. I
guess I'm not on the internet. Sorry. We just came from another meeting. Let me see if I can-BOBBY DISHELL: Agenda review, which Madam Chair, if I may, I move to postpone agenda item 17a to
a date certain, the June 2023 Board of Directors meeting, to allow for public engagement on the Code of
Conduct and Service Suspension Policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Dishell. Is there a second for that motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I hear Director Dishell as the movement and Director Sloan as the second. Ms.
Johnson, I see your camera went on. Did you have a comment? The motion is to table the Code of
Conduct discussion till June. I guess it would go to the Ops committee in June, and then to the Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, no. I support that action by the Directors. I just came on because I
was interested in that item. So thank you very kindly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Dr. Rosenthal, do you have comments?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I think Director Williams is before me, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK. Doesn't line up in my computer that way. Sorry. Director Williams, you're
next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I would like us to be certain that we refer to this continually as amendments
to the existing Code of Conduct. We are not working on the Code of Conduct that we have had for a long
time. We are working on amendments to the Code of Conduct. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a good point. The way the recommended action currently reads in the
agenda is, "2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revision for the Board of Directors to
Adopt Revisions to the Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy." So the motion on the floor is to
postpone that discussion until June. All right, thanks, Director Williams. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And what are some of the reasons why folks are
proposing this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can address that. But Director Dishell, do you want to address it, as the
movement?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. I'll just discuss it quickly, which is I think there's been a clear-- a couple of things
have occurred. I think, one, there's been a clear statement from the community from some of our key
stakeholders that RTD could have had a more public, stronger public engagement going through this
process. And so there is-- the postponement until June allows staff to go out into the community to work
with community partners to do that.
I think the second is, one of our key personnel who would be driving this had a severe family impact,
tragic family loss and family impact. And in addition, out of respect for them to allow them to both heal,
take the time that they need and not force them to be present at a meeting in which they don't
necessarily-- where we're still looking at a more robust public engagement process. It seemed more
appropriate to move that to June to allow for that public engagement process to take place.
And that is, I'll throw it back to the Chair. If there's anything I left out?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think that's right. And I came rushing in here. But I want to take a minute to
say how terribly sorry we all are for Chief Fitzgerald and the really tragic murder of his son at Temple
University in Philadelphia. I've heard from so many Board members and staff. And I know it's really-- our
hearts are broken for the Chief and his family. So I agree. Director Dishell's stated that all very well. It's
out of respect for his family.
And also, I know that Debra Johnson and Stuart Summers are working on a public engagement process
that allows us to hear from all of our sections, people that want to come and speak to us. Dr. Rosenthal,
did you have-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And I appreciate some of the comments about the public engagement
process. And at the same time, I believe RTD-- and I know our Board members, and I've heard personally
from many, many, many in the community, and I know we have as well. So I'm hopeful that all of the
public engagement process, which was substantial up to now, that we have heard from many people,
including at our previous Board meeting, that all that be included in that process as well.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale, I see your hand. But I think Ms. Snyder had some
comment here.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please. I would refer to General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to make clear for the record that the
motion to postpone-- I think, Madam Chair, you might have said that it would go back to the Operations
and Safety Committee. And procedurally, it would either go back to the Executive Committee or to the
Board, but not back to Operations and Safety in June.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you for that clarification. That's great. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to ask for the sake of the record, so
that we had it here, can anyone please advise me-- and I believe that Operations Committee Chair Kate
Williams is on the line-- this same motion was made at the Operations Committee and failed. And I was
wondering if anybody recalls what the vote actually was, the number of people voting to continue the
matter of postpone to a definite time, as opposed to proceeding with it. That's my question. Then I would
have a brief comment if I can get an answer to that question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer it. But Director Williams, you have your hand up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead. Share. It's OK. I was just going to give an answer. If you got it, you go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The vote was 5 to 2. But I don't think-- I guess, I don't think that the members
generally oppose this. I haven't spoken with all of them. But I know Secretary Sloan is on the-- in the
meeting right now. And so is Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: And my comment, therefore, would be I'm just a little troubled by the fact that four
people will make a decision, whatever the vote of the four of you might be. But four people would make a
decision that was already posed and made by the committee by a number greater than that. But I leave
the committee to conduct its own business. Thank you,
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, thank you. That's a good point. I think what our motion is and should be
is a motion that the Board postpone this or table it. We're not making the decision. We're taking the-we're adding to the agenda a motion to table this until June. Is that correct, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: That is not the language I used. But I am happy to withdraw my motion and restate it
as such.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's probably the best way to handle that. Any thoughts, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Chair. I think the motion to postpone the Board's consideration of
this recommended action until its Board meeting in June is the appropriate-- I think that's the intent of
Director Dishell's motion.
BOBBY DISHELL: My motion was to take it off the agenda for tomorrow night and postpone it until June.
I'm not opposed to putting it back on, amending my motion so that the recommended action is to
postpone it. I think procedurally, it's a bit odd. But I'm not opposed to it. But the motion that I made was to
strike it until June when it would come back.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So Melanie, Director Tisdale's concern is that this passed the Operations
Committee. As the Executive Committee, should we be making that decision or putting it back to the
Board to make that decision to postpone?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think there is authority for the Executive Committee, in its authority, to set the
agenda to postpone. You would have the authority to do that. But it is something to take into
consideration, what Director Tisdale had indicated.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. And if I may, I think the other important piece here is that what one committee
does is not sacred and rubberstamped by the full Board or by the Executive Committee, right? The whole
point when we went to smaller committees was to allow for more robust discussion outside of the
committee, that when committee decides, it's not automatically pushed through, which was sort of how it
worked before.
So again, I'm happy to take it off. I'm happy to continue this discussion. I know there's others with their
hands up, so-LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'd like to hear the others. I think the advantage of taking it off is that some of
the people who may be wanting to come and speak would realize we're doing a public engagement
process. Director Rosen-- or, Director-- I don't know who was first. Director Williams, were you first?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think so. It normally shows up in order. But that's all right.
Thanks, Director Dishell. I'm inclined to have a mind with you that the committee does not make absolute
decisions. But it would be so simple to resolve all of this if we would bring it to the Board, and then
somebody make the move to postpone any vote on it. And then we would have all of the Directors who
were in favor or not in favor a chance to say, yes or no.
My guess is that everybody's in favor of postponing it, and somebody could make the statement about the
Chief's situation and about the fact that we're going to have public comment. And then all that would be in
the Open Record at the Board meeting. So my recommendation to this committee is that you let it come
to the Board meeting this coming Tuesday. And then we move to postpone any absolute decision on it for
some amount of time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess I'm a little confused by what's being
proposed here. There's the blanket statement for June. But I don't know if that's back to Executive
Committee. I don't know if that's to the full Board. So it is really confusing. And so I think Director Williams
makes a good point that allowing the Board to discuss this matter-- and if the goal is to do public
discussion, then we can have public discussion.
Let's have it. Let's have people-- let's have more folks call in, like they did. It was wonderful hearing their
feedback from the last meeting. Let's have that discussion. If Board members would like to have
amendments to the proposals, they can offer those amendments. We can discuss those. We don't have
to take a final vote on the 28th. But I think it would be very helpful to have this public discussion. I think it
would be great for the public to have more input. And so I'm pro input. I'm for having more public
discussion so we can have that, actually, at our next meeting on the 28th.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson, it looks like you're on now. Did you have something to add?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I'm hearing you correctly, did you recognize me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I saw your light going on. So I thought maybe you had something to say.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no. I was just listening to the discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. The downside-- and I want to hear what Director Dishell says-- the downside of
that is, as we said, part of this is out of respect for the Chief. And so setting up a public engagement
process when he is there or is available to be there may make more sense than going through all the
public comment at the Board meeting. But, Director Dishell.
You might be frozen, Director Dishell. Do you have your hand up? There you go.
BOBBY DISHELL: I didn't hear part of what you said. But I think I've unfrozen. Which is, I think we're all
pro public input, in which case, perhaps the middle-of-the-road solution is to pull it, move it from
recommended action to discussion item. I do think, though, out of respect for the Chief, it may make
sense still to pull it until June.
People are still welcome to come comment on it at public comment. I know I've gotten a bunch of emails
that appear to be sort of Denver Streets Partnership canned emails. I'm sure you guys have as well, you
all have as well.
But I think leaving it as a recommended action doesn't achieve the goal, Director Rosenthal, of what you
said, which is really having it be more of a discussion. If we're clear that it's not going to be up for a vote,
then it should be moved. I still think the respect for the Chief, and I think we will, frankly, get a better
public engagement process, when everyone's at their best. And to force that now may not be the best
choice.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to speak. And I appreciate
the discussion. What I will share for you all's consideration, recognizing that there is public comment at
every Board meeting, it may be advantageous to have public comment. But I would agree with the
discussions that it should not be a recommended action. If anything, public comment commences at the
beginning of the meeting, and people could speak to the matter.
But outside of the Chief, I'd be remiss not to say that many of our employees in law enforcement across
the agency, we are all-- been in a challenging time these past couple of days because we have all been
deeply impacted by what has happened. So I would ask you all to factor in our employee ownership
priority and take into consideration the values that we believe and hold to be true as it relates to us
bringing our whole selves to work. And right now, we're trying to be supportive of our law enforcement
colleagues at the agency and others that have been deeply impacted by this tragedy. So thank you very
much for your consideration.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thank you for those comments. I think that those are all things that we all want
to consider. OK, I see a lot of repeat hands. Director Williams very quickly, and Rosenthal and Tisdale-KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to modify. I was not asking for public comment. I was asking for all 15
Directors to be able to be involved in the decision to move this to June. I want to modify. I apparently did

not speak clearly. Thank you. And however we put that on the agenda, rather than have this committee
bear the burden of making that decision, I think it would-- that was my request. I'll shut up. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that the reason it moved on to the other is if it's on the agenda and has not
been decided to table it, then people will feel like they need to come in and comment. And that raises the
issue of moving forward without the Chief. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. So would we be able to have some clarification, then? Would this go to
the Executive Committee or the full Board, then, in that case? And I guess I'm still not clear as to what the
motion is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think it would go to the Executive Committee to approve the agenda item in
June. But Director Dishell, did you have something to add there?
BOBBY DISHELL: I was just saying, I think I am not currently planning to change the motion. The motion
is to move it until a date certain in June. And as part of every agenda setting process, it goes to the
Executive Committee in June, and then to the full Board, whatever that Tuesday evening in June is. So
that would be-- the motion, just one more time, would be to remove item 17a from the agenda until the
June 2023 Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm happy to defer to Director Sloan, who has not spoken on this yet. And then I would
come back, if that's permissible with you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think it is a responsibility of the Executive Committee.
But in addition to our vote today, if we could call the other Board members to explain the discussion and
the reasoning behind the motion to adjourn, because it is contrary to the Operations and Safety
Committee's decision. So I don't think it should be a surprise to any of the Board members attending the
February meeting. And I'd be happy to make as many calls as necessary. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. Yeah, I think we'd need to communicate with them. That's a good
point. We can talk about how to do that. That sounds great. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The point is that the Operations and Safety
Committee did put forward a recommended action. I think it is unprecedented for the Executive
Committee to remove from the agenda an item that has been forwarded by a committee. It becomes a
star chamber proceeding. And I would object to that.
I believe that the argument for postponing to a date certain is exceptionally well taken. The chief's
circumstances are unique and tragic. We can address that with the Board. And I would have enough
respect for my fellow Board members that they would understand this. But rather than have a group of
four take the charge and say, OK, you passed this, but we're not going to let you talk about it, I think, is
unprecedented. And I think that's a very bad precedent.
So let's just simply have it go forward, and then make a motion to postpone to a date certain for the
reasons given, and let the full Board take that action. I think that's the most respectful and, under our
bylaws, the most appropriate way to proceed. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Tisdale and Director Williams, for
the comments on that precedent. I think I'd actually like to ask General Counsel Snyder about this,
because understood that that is very unprecedented. I would say that the Chief's situation is also,
perhaps not unprecedented, but certainly exceptionally an extreme.
And I know that to Ms. Johnson's point about staff needing to be present and their best selves as we have
any type of discussion around this, I think the postponement from the agenda is the simplest. It's the
most-- even if we do address it in the meeting, I think it's beneficial to staff. I think it also allows for the
community to understand that it won't be on the agenda, given that this does have a high level of interest,
but fully understand the arguments about precedence and the need to have the Board involved in this.
Ms. Snyder, I'm wondering if you can give any comments about how to handle the lack of precedence
and whether there is-- whether, in fact, that authority does rest with the Executive Committee, and if you
have recommendations on the way forward. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. I definitely take note of Director Tisdale's reflections on the custom
and the practice and the history of the Board. I think that while the bylaws do say that the Executive
Committee is empowered to review and establish the agenda for each regular Board meeting-- so I do
think there's an argument to be made that there is authority for the Executive Committee to set the
agenda, and that could include a proper motion with a second and a majority vote-- to postpone an item,
whether that is something as a custom that-- we really only have about a year under our belts with this
new committee structure.
And so I do think that's something for the Executive Committee to consider, to take into account Director
Tisdale's comments. So I do agree that there's authority to do so. I think it's just your judgment call about
whether that is how the Executive Committee is going to wield its authority.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. If I could, I would offer that certainly, speaking personally, I think public
comment and discussion-- and discussion in the open-- is the preference. And absolutely, what we should
do is default. But this is a unique circumstance. And for those of us that have experienced loss, I think we
all understand just how horrific this is.
And given that this would be much simpler and no one feels the pressure to have to even be present for
discussion, I think this does not necessarily establish our values of not having any kind of open
discussion. I think a simple comment to Board Directors that we've postponed this, and these are the
reasons why, is all that we would need. I guess I'll just put forward my support for the amendment. But I
understand if we don't go the other way. And thank you, General Counsel Snyder, for the comments on
this.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, Director Williams, one more comment?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, one more. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I know I should butt out of your
meeting. But I am a Director here. And we are all entitled to our opinion on this, which is why I keep
saying, I think we should take it away from a voting situation, which we can do. We can bring it to the
Board. If people want to come and comment, the Chief is not going to be responding to those comments.
We don't respond to those comments. He will then have until June to read them and digest them.

We are not putting anything on Chief Fitzgerald by bringing this to the Board meeting and immediately
having Director Dishell make a well-crafted statement that, based on the variety of circumstances,
including the Chief and upcoming public meetings, that we are asking to postpone it, and take that right
away. End of story. And anybody who wants to come to the Board meeting and speak, great. I hope we
have 400 people who come and speak at every Board meeting.
But we're not responding. And the Chief is not responding. And so we can send him a statement today
saying that he doesn't need to be there, and we appreciate him, and we're going to move this on to allow
that to happen. But you guys do what you want to do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. No, I think we all appreciate the quandary here and want to recognize
the power of the committee. But it is a really exceptional situation. And the employee ownership, the fact
that our employees are so affected by this, in addition to the Chief, also weighs in. I think it's time to take
the vote. Director Williams, is your hand still up? No? OK. Dr. Dishell, could you restate the motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, as soon as I can figure out how to use my thumb.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to postpone recommended action agenda item 17a to the June, 2023 meeting
of the Board of Directors.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think given where we are, I'll take the role. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. So we have four yes votes and no no votes. I think we all
appreciate the comments. And thank you all for the comments. It's not the ideal way to handle it. But it
tells the world where we are before people come in. And I think it respects the Chief and the staff's
situation.
So given that, we will remove that item from the agenda. The next item on the agenda is the Board
Meeting Agenda Review. I guess we're in that. Is there a motion to move the February Board agenda to
the Board meeting on February 28?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Sloan as the movement and Director Davidson as a second. Is
there any discussion? All right. Are there any no votes on this action? OK, with four yes votes and zero no
votes, and zero abstentions, that motion passes.
Discussion items-- we're now in the discussion item portion of the agenda. And there are several items
today. First is the Government Relations Report. Michael Davies, I see you there.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you, Chair, and members of the committee. I'm Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer. I have a brief report for you, and happy to answer any questions.
Starting at the federal level, really, the news and what we're watching for is the President's budget is
anticipated to be released on March 9. We'll comb through that and point out to the Board any highlights
in the President's budget that interact with RTD.
And then also, just at the federal level, just wanted to note we had an opportunity to partner with the
Northwest Mayors and Commissioners in their advocacy trip to DC, largely focused on their Raise Grant
for highway 119. And I think it's just a good opportunity for both the Board and RTD staff to improve our
relationships with our community partners. And this is a great opportunity to do that.
Moving on to the state, really, the one bill the Board has taken action on is House Bill 1101. That bill has
passed the House and didn't see any action this week, but was scheduled for Monday, February 27, at
1:30 in the Senate Transportation and Energy Committee. So we'll participate in that committee and keep
the Board up to date with any amendments or action that the Senate Committee takes on House Bill
1101.
And then just rounding it out on state items, obviously tracking a number of bills. But no bills are raising to
a level of concern at this time. But obviously, continuing to follow a number of bills as they get considered
in the General Assembly.
And then lastly, just touching on the local level, the thing we've been working on is to set up a-- and you
all will recall, as part of the subregional service council process, which are run largely by the jurisdictional
staff at the subregional service councils, as a part of that process, we are committed to also doing elected
official briefings. And we've sent out a save the date for March 8, I believe. All of the Board of Directors
has received that as well. So a link to that meeting will go out next week to everybody invited.
We realize that that is a very large meeting. It is intended to spell out RTD priorities and projects and give
a high-level overview of what we are doing. We do not intend that to be the end of the conversation, only
the beginning of the conversation. And we are also working to schedule individual council and
commission meetings where RTD can go and get into more detail and have that opportunity for further
discussion with elected officials.
So just want to highlight, we recognize it's a large meeting. And it is intended to make sure that everybody
knows of the top projects and priorities that we're working on. But also, know that many elected officials
want to be able to have that back and forth with RTD, and we want to be able to accommodate that
process as well. So that is all I have. And happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Are there questions for Mr Davies? Dr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No question. Just thank you, Mr Davies. I just wanted to highlight I had the unique
opportunity, along with Director Guissinger, to watch Mr. Davies in action in Washington, and just would

thank you and take the opportunity to celebrate what you're doing for the agency and for the good of us.
And watching you in action in DC was like watching you at home. And I really appreciate all that you've
done for RTD. So, thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I would second that. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, we have a great opportunity in our largest area which is, Denver, I believe.
There's other local elections coming up this spring. As catalysts or Michael Davies, you, or otherwise-are we engaging with candidates as sort of a, there's no shortage of candidates who have put out. Here's
what RTD is. And this is why we want to do with transportation. Do we have a plan for local engagement,
general education one-pagers for these candidates or for folks after they're elected, to help get them up to
speed on RTD?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Director Dishell, that's a great question. I can say that we are involved in, as I said,
that local outreach piece. Is there a specific engagement plan for addressing individuals who are
candidates? I don't think that we have a firm plan on that at this moment. That is to say that if it is the
desire of the Board to put together those kind of materials, I mean, we certainly are working to try to take
all of our issues and be able to put that into, essentially, one-pagers and things that we can have that
elected officials can look at, but haven't taken on a specific outreach process for non-elected officials at
this time as a part of their candidacy for elected office.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Would be curious on other's thoughts, obviously, with-- I think there's, I'm going
to take a guess that there's over 50 candidates. For Denver's various districts, I think there's 17 for mayor
alone. So that would be a pretty high bar.
But even if it's, email correspondence with, hey, feel free to come talk to us, when we have that many
people, I think that would be beneficial. And I think at a bare minimum, a plan for once folks are elected at
the local level of establishing that relationship, building that relationship, explaining RTD, I'm one of 15.
So there's lots of other-- or 1 of 5-- on the Government Relations side. So obviously, there's many of us
who have other thoughts.
But that would be-- I think it's a great opportunity to set something up, to set up a structure and to pilot a
structure. I don't know if Boulder or others have an April election or a May election. But at the very least,
it'd be good to start building that out to really deepen those relationships and help with any
misunderstandings from the get go. And I'm happy to volunteer my time for the jurisdictions that I
represent, or others, to make sure we get this done.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. You know, I've been thinking along a lot of the same lines. And I've talked
with Michael Davies some, and lobbyists. And I'll say two things.
One is that we've invited the state and local public affairs teams, Brandeberry McKenna, and Catalyst, to
come. I think it would be the external entities portion of the February meeting, but to come and give a
brief presentation and answer questions so that people can see them. And then we're going to talk about

the retreat in a minute. But I think that that's a great idea about reaching out, even just to, like you said, a
one-page letter or something to the candidates.
And I think a lot of us work closely with our elected officials in the sense of the mayors and our staff, but
the city councils, maybe not as much. And one idea I have for the retreat, which we'll talk about here in a
minute, is that we would talk about how we set up a plan for really reaching out more broadly with our city
councils, our chambers. And each person, maybe in advance of the retreat as a draft-- or we can talk
about how we'd do it-- but each person, hopefully, would leave with a plan for reaching out, meeting with
their city councils on a regular basis.
In Denver, I know it's different. We've got a whole crew of you that represent Denver. But to come up with
a plan, and we can work with our local government with Jen Webster and with Jennifer Brandeberry, to
help build that out. But obviously, it's a big lift. Staff can't go meet with everybody in all of our districts, and
shouldn't need to. And I think that the Directors generally, what I hear, is people want to be going out and
meeting. So if we each come up with a plan and we work on it together, I think hopefully, we can move
forward that communication.
And what Michael and Stuart Summers can do for us there is to have talking points and maybe have a
PowerPoint that's prepared and updated regularly. And people can edit it for themselves, so it makes it
easy for our Directors to go out and meet with our electeds. Any thoughts?
BOBBY DISHELL: I think that sounds great. I think the one component I would add that we maybe don't
always talk about, but for local, is critical, is the interaction between land use and transit. I know we talk a
lot about how part of our transit problem is our land use problem. But if we're not showing up at the land
use meetings to talk about ways that can be better and drawing that direct connection for folks, I think
we're missing an opportunity.
So , Director Guissinger, I absolutely agree that it should be on the Directors. And I think the appropriate
split would be the assistance from staff on the materials and talking points and PowerPoints. And we can
then go and do that. And staff may want to attend some of them, if it's Denver City Council or some of the
others. But it's-- a lot of us have a lot of smaller and diverse jurisdictions that we can address.
Great. Any other thoughts on this topic? Thanks, Michael. I appreciate the good report.
The next discussion item is the Board retreat. It's scheduled for March 25. The Board Office has secured
the Colorado History Museum as a venue. An RFQ has gone out for a Board of Directors Receipt
Facilitation. It was published last week and sent directly to the six contacts that were included with the
PR, as well as the list of 50 SBs and DBs provided by the Small Business office.
RFQ proposals are due no later than March 3. I think there's a period during which people can ask
questions. And then we'll have a plan for choosing the facilitator.
Are there other ideas? I guess one other piece I have that is not necessarily a retreat topic, but I know
that Miss Charlene Polege was planning to come to the Board soon to talk about WorkForce. And I'd like
us to really get into what WorkForce development programs we're working with, because again, we all
represent our separate districts. And there are a lot of different WorkForce development programs.
I think we're going to be talking with the state about theirs. But this is another area that I think the
Directors could take away some information and potentially find other places to help us develop our
WorkForce. I don't know if that's a retreat topic. We've had other people talk about policies.

I'm thinking that maybe the best thing to do-- we have a Strategic Plan. But we are looking, in our
Performance Committee, at how we use the Strategic Plan maybe to do a better performance review next
year, or a different one. And I guess, I'm thinking of sending out an email to people with some ideas for
the retreat and getting feedback on what people would like to discuss. Any other suggestions, ideas?
Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think that one thing-- I love that, Chair, you had brought up, let's get specific and into
the details and not stay too high level. So I think one thing that would be exciting would be if we talk about
those strategic priorities-- customer excellence, community value, financial sustainability, and employee
ownership. If there are ways that the Board can contribute to and advance those strategic priorities, we
may be able to come up with some joint actions that we can all take to advance the agency's goals.
So a perfect example is if we [INAUDIBLE] for example the government outreach that we'll all have
specific actions of who we're going to engage with and what our engagement plans are, as Directors, in
our individual jurisdictions. Perhaps we can put forward some measurable goals that-- just the same way,
we'll talk in Performance Committee about measuring the performance of the agency. We could measure
our performance in advancement of, for example, I think community value is a clear one that could be tied
to.
And whether we identify something that's measurable as a result, or whether it's measurable in terms of
an action-- how many engagements, or so forth-- I think it would actually be fun, and also give us some
accountability, as Directors, if we left the retreat with actions that are tied to strategic priorities, and if we
take the opportunity to also dialogue with Ms. Johnson about what might help her and her staff. So I don't
think I'm saying anything different other than just the discussion around those strategic priorities and any
discussions of the things we're going to do, like an outreach plan, it'd be fun to come up with some
measurables and tie them to those strategic outcomes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Other comments? OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll throw another one out, just to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I would love, if we're able to find some time to-- and I know we're crowding the agenda.
There's a lot. But that could also relate to our Performance Committee goals. For those that are not
aware, the Performance Committee is going to meet following the retreat in April. And we're going to meet
three different times before we establish our regular cadence. And one of the things we're trying to do is
determine what the best ways are to measure the agency.
If there's a little bit of time to solicit feedback and ideas, I think this would be a good chance to have the
whole Board put forward those ideas that the Performance Committee can then take in April and make
some decisions on. So I guess I'll just put that out there as, if we have time to do, that might be beneficial.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. I believe Director Guzman is next and then Director Sloan.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Wanted to say hear, hear for the actionable items. I'm all about that. [CLEARS
THROAT] Sorry. Bubble in my throat. So, thank you for saying that. I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I am just checking in on the process for the retreat and whether we have a
facilitator engaged yet, and if the scope of work for the facilitator included-- as it did last year-- a one-onone talk between the facilitator and each Board member about their ideas and expectations of the retreat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that-- you may have stepped away. The RFQ went out last week. It's gone
out to the people it went to last year, and 50 SBs and DBs. The proposals are due no later than March 3.
It does include-- it's basically very similar to last year. It does include the one-on-one conversations.
And so I guess my overall thought is to get an email out to people with some of these ideas and
requesting their ideas, and sort of a way of directing the facilitator. My thoughts-- and it sounds like
Director Davidson and Director Guzman at least, agrees the more we can come away with action plans
from this retreat, the better it'll be. So, yeah. Anybody else?
OK, are there any other matters anyone wants to discuss? Okie doke, I don't see one. Not seeing any
other matters. And I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We are now adjourned as of 10:51 on this Thursday, February 23. Thanks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bye, everybody.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

