Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on May 12, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

May 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday May 12, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Directors; Bagley, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and
Tobiassen.

Staff Present:

Robert Merriman, Carolyn Conover, Phil Washington, Sue Sandoval,
Terry Howerter, Scott Reed, Bruce Abel, Bill Holmes, Richard Rost, Dean
Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Cal Marsella, Dave Genova, Paula Perdue and
Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
****
Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m. 12 Board
members were present. Directors Cohen and Pulliam arrived late and
Director Martinez was absent.

Call to Order:

I.

Recommended Actions
a.

August 2009 Service Changes
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager Customer & Contracted Services,
indicated that this recommended action is to move forward to public hearing as
discussed previously. An extensive service change was just implemented with
May runboard and he is seeking to see the results. He expects the August
service changes to be rather benign.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August 23, 2009 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to
forward this item onto the May 19, 2009

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on May 12, 2009
Page 2 of 4
Board Meeting Agenda.

b.

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Architectural / Engineering Contract with Merrick & Company, 16 DO-025
Contract Amendment
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager, Safety, Security & Facilities indicated
that this is a work order contract. The purpose is to increase funding for
engineering design services. Richard Rost, Manager Facilities Engineering was
present to answer questions.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 16 DO-025
with Merrick & Company for architectural and engineering design services in the
amount of $500,000 for a new contract amount of $1,100,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be
funded by annual capital projects for the duration of the contract.

II.

Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to
forward this item onto the May 19, 2009
Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Access-a-Ride Update
Bruce Abel gave this update. A monthly update of the implementation of Route Match
software and AVL was included in the Board packet. Key points:




Continue along at appropriate level.
Completed deployment of AVL technology on 50 vehicles on Special Transit
fleet and completed CUSA fleet which is 50 vehicles.
Taking this time to pause and monitor if the number of vehicles on AVL/MDT
technology increases and if it is a having an impact on dispatch function.

Director Brohl asked about the complaints that we had with some of customers and
riders dealt regarding delays. She asked if this could monitor that activity.
Bruce indicated that Director Brohl is referring to “will call” – when someone is unable
to meet original timeline. There have been some limited improvements in that
capacity.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on May 12, 2009
Page 3 of 4

Bruce anticipates to have this fully rolled out – if no negative impact in about 5
weeks.
Director Chacon asked about the issue where calls were lost. Bruce answered that on
May 3rd they implemented a new call center personnel schedule. It was not a
software function but a personnel function.
Director Chacon also asked about regulations. There are no regulations but there are
bonuses and liquidated damages for good performance and not good performance.
The performance level is specified in contract.
Director Christopher asked why there are not passenger trips for months in 2009.
Bruce mentioned that there are questions with Route Match on validity on some of
the data and they have elected not to put out questionable statistics until they can
validate the data.
Parking Management Program Update
Dave Genova and Errol Stevens presented this item to the Board. All four phases have
been implemented. This contractor was selected five years ago by competitive selection
– they cover all cost and remit to us 97% of revenue.
Central is working on automating data management program which would facilitate
enforcement. There is not much date yet but they have seen a dip in parking at Wagon
Road and an increase at Thornton – still need months to check pattern across the
system. What they expected seems to be occurring.
Director Daly recently met with Chair and Dave Genova – he would like clarification on
Parking Management policy. Director Daly questioned why there are 6 park-n-Rides at
above 85% capacity that are not managed. This includes one at 105% capacity – these
are mostly located on the edge of the District.
Director Daly inquired why we are arbitrarily picking some and not others. The brochure
to the public says the purpose is to make more parking available – it didn’t happen, so
why are very busy park-n-Rides not being managed. He also questioned the fairness.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on May 12, 2009
Page 4 of 4

Dave Genova shared with the Board that more time is needed to watch the program and
there has been some discussion about implementing a phase 5 which would take place in
the fall.
Cal indicated that he would get with Dave to look at the two park-n-Rides that Director
Daly mentioned (Lincoln and Jordan and US - 287). He indicated that if they are over
capacity we ought to be looking at parking criteria.
Director Tayer wants to get on record the criticism of aesthetics of the parking
management canopy’s and color scheme. If we could work toward something that is
more consistent that is close to our normal scheme.
Director Brohl’s understanding is that the parking management was not to generate
revenues but to address park-n-Rides that were at or above capacity. Director requested
that each Board member receive a copy of the policy. There needs to be a back door – to
allow us to address the Board’s issues within policy.
Dave Genova discussed the policy objectives that were approved in August of 2008.
1Achieve more efficient use of existing parking facilities
2Establish more equitable cost recovery for non-resident and long term parking
patrons
3Utilize fees at all managed facility coupled with discounts at selected low
demand facilities where unused parking capacities exist.
4Be financially self sustaining and not requiring any general fund subsidy.
It was requested from Director Brohl that staff provide the Board with the actual
policy as originally approved and get periodic updates as more data becomes
available.
Director Daly suggested for staff to start looking at how we bring park-n-Rides in and
out of the policy.
Director Brohl stated that if there are non-significant issues from now to three months
then this does not need to be a standing item on the monthly agenda BUT if there are
significant issues then she would prefer an update every two months.
III.

Next Meeting Date
The next Operations and Customer Services Committee will be held Tuesday, June 9,
2009.

IV.

Adjourn to Financial Administration Committee
Chair Brohl adjourned to the Financial Administration Committee at 6:30 p.m.

