2025-09-08
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Welcome back, everybody. Happy September. We are convening the Performance
Committee on Monday, September 8 at 8:30 AM. I would respectfully request that everyone attending this
meeting mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will
be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]

Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. It is my understanding that Director Vince Buzek,
who is first on the list, will not be joining us today. So I will go to the next name, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin has informed me that she will be unavailable and is excused
from this meeting. And I am Director Michael Guzman, chair of the committee.
For the record, I see-- let me double check here. I do not see any other directors joining us this morning. If
that changes, please let me know. Feel free to interrupt and point that out to Mr. Kroll or any member of the
committee. I would appreciate that.

All right. Next on the agenda is public comment. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would
like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current
and immediately preceding month, which would have been July. If you wish to speak and have not already
done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your telephone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. I do not see any hands. Are there any hands raised, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, I see no hands raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Do you know if we received-- I did not see any in email-- any type of
communication regarding this meeting?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there were no public comments submitted via email in advance
of this meeting.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. With no participants in the queue, then I will close the public comment
period at this time. We have one recommended action to discuss this morning and it is the successor
strategic plan consultancy solicitation. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the scope of work
summary for a solicitation for a consultancy to assist with the development of the successor document to
the 2021-2026 strategic plan. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movant as Vice Chair Gutschenritter and the second as Director
Guissinger. I would like to ask Debra Johnson, our General Manager and CEO, to present this item to the
committee.
DEBRA JACKSON: Thank you very kindly. Good morning. As introduced, Debra Johnson, General
Manager and Chief Executive Officer. We are here this morning to present the summary scope of work
relative to a consultancy solicitation to help the agency move forward relative to the expiration of the
strategic plan that was adopted by the Board of Directors on August 10 of 2021.
In doing so, this would provide this agency with the opportunity to continue the work in which this agency
has worked so diligently on over the past four years, recognizing when I came into the organization back in
November of 2020, there had yet to be any strategic direction relative to everybody aligning around what
the agency's mission was or what this organization aspired to be relative to delivering transit services for
today, tomorrow, and the tomorrows to come.
With that as context, recognizing that this is a summary scope of work, considering we want to ensure that
we have open and fair competition if this body elects to move forward and delegate authorization for me to
put forward a solicitation to identify a third party to assist.
Some of the aspects of the scope relative to deliverables will include, quite naturally, having the third party
orient themselves to any relevant documents the agency has, work that has been done in which they can
help build a foundation on as we move forward. Engage key stakeholder groups.

Quite naturally, when we talk about key stakeholder groups, not only the Board as the policy entity, or the
policy body, I should say, our leadership team, staff, but also external stakeholders relative to our critical
role here in the region.
More specifically, as we look at what we'd be striving to do, is centering us around what our goals would be
relative to our strategic plan, might that be capitalizing on what we already have in existence, recognizing
we make great strides, but there's still work to be done, and moving forward with how we actually manage
what we are doing relative to our performance, i.e., be that a performance scorecard or some other aspect
that would be forward-facing and be very transparent to those that have entrusted us with the responsibility
of being good stewards of taxpayer dollars.
Quite naturally, in order to get us centered around this, what I have found to be most successful, and some
of you that are assembled may recall that we did have a retreat, whereby we could have conversation and
rally around what we thought was optimal to outline the path forward. And then quite naturally, culminate
with a strategic plan document that would be taken up for consideration by this body as we move forward.
So at a high level, that's what we have before us relative to a timeline. Quite naturally, we have to ensure
we're adhering to good procurement practices. And so this would be going forward, should you deem
appropriate to move this through the September meeting cycle. If we're lucky enough to get out of
committee today, go forward to the full Board, initiate a procurement document, which is more or less
internal to this agency's workings.
There are aspects along the line of ensuring that fair competition that I talked about. If, in fact, there were
questions from potential proposers, we ensure that we answer those questions, and they are done in a
manner in which everybody would be able to see those should they have interest in pursuing this
procurement opportunity.
Assemble a review panel to discern what might be the most responsive proposal. With that as a backdrop,
would hope to leverage a engagement the end of the year with the anticipation of a notice to proceed in the
January time frame. And then basically, move forward with the deliverables as outlined, ultimately aligning
around having a successor strategic plan in the August time frame.
Should that not come to fruition, we can always look to extend the current strategic plan, recognizing that
we have had great strides, or made great strides, with that.
So, Mr. Chair, that's my brief report. I will yield the floor to you. Thank you very much for the opportunity to
present this item.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam CEO. I would ask Directors at this time who have questions or
wish to speak to raise your virtual hands. I'll call on you in order. Are there any discussion or questions
about this matter? Director Nicholson. You are on mute, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry about that. Yes, thank you, General Manager and CEO. I appreciated the
presentation and the document that was prepared. My primary question when it comes to the documents
to review section, I noticed it didn't mention the strategic plans of other transit agencies.
There's a wide scope and a wide array of strategic plans that I've looked at from other agencies. And they
vary dramatically in the amount of depth involved and the number of pages. So I'd like to see in there a
review of strategic plans of similar number of years from other transit agencies to give the Board some

options for considering what type of document we should be putting together, we should be asking to be
put together.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO, would you care to respond?
DEBRA JACKSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Chair Guzman. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. As
indicated, this is a scope summary. And in the document itself, it's based upon what proposals we get. That
is customary, as we did that previously when the Board adopted this strategic plan, recognizing the transit
agencies are just that one and done, in the sense that different needs, different operating environments,
that would be par for the course.
And as I indicated, this is merely a summary scope of work, as we couldn't put a detailed scope here
because we would be jumping the gun with a solicitation because we would be showcasing what we're
doing. But I hear you loudly and clearly. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up on that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So you're telling us you will be putting that into the scope of work. And I don't need
to make an amendment to add it to the summary scope of work.
DEBRA JACKSON: Mr. Chair, if I may. Once again, this is a summary. We would not be putting every single
element. And contingent upon how we do solicitations, it'll be up to the proposer. We will list-- and I'm not
trying to get ahead of myself here because this really isn't the appropriate forum to talk about what would
be in the actual scope of work since we would have a release date for that. It's premature.
But for all intents and purposes, this will be a solicitation that will yield what it is that the Board wants,
because we'll have an opportunity to engage with the proposer who is selected, and that could be qualified
when we get to the appropriate stage.
I may sound a little cagey, but it's due to the fact that it's typical that we don't have discussions around
solicitations prior to them actually being released. And so I just want you to understand that I'm trying my
best to answer the question without compromising an open and fair competitive solicitation for the
betterment of this agency. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, does that satisfy your inquiry?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, that's exactly what I needed to hear. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you. Vice Chair Gutschenritter, your hand is up.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. And I know we're still relatively early in this process for this cycle,
but my question is, based on last time we went through this for the last strategic plan, are there any lessons
learned that we're applying this go around, and that may be scope, timeline. Just curious to hear.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.

DEBRA JACKSON: Yes, thank you very much, Vice Chair Gutschenritter, for the question. There's a lot to
learn. As I indicated, I had just come into this organization. I realized that this agency was information rich
but data poor.
As we have been trying to work diligently in shoring up our data, that's something that's critically important,
recognizing that we didn't have a lot of resource documents that lended themselves to us moving forward,
a lot of assumptions were made.
We created baselines in the sense of more or less guesstimates, just due to the fact that this was something,
I would say, relatively new to the agency. And when I meant relatively new, regarding us being in the midst
of COVID, not having a lot of things at the ready.
As we look at creating baselines, ensuring that we are leaning into all aspects of the organization, external
entities as well, looking to the consultant, that's why there will be qualifiers in the scope relative to
experience working within public agency realms, as well as transit agencies, to ensure that we are
optimizing the opportunity that we have before us.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there any follow-up, Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Not at this time. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would-- since I don't see any other hands-- just like to opine on one particular ask.
And I know that this will be handled well, but task for the agency performance scorecard development. The
current scorecard is as user-friendly as a hidden model on an Excel spreadsheet with a broken link.
So if there's any way to make it more intelligible or more accessible to folks who are looking at the strategic
plan, I'd really appreciate that. I think it would help both Board members to be able to understand what and
how we're evaluating, but also the public to understand what those metrics are and why they're relevant to
the full scorecard development.
Right now, it's pages and pages and pages of rubrics that, frankly, I don't even know that I have a full
understanding of. I have to drill down very deeply into some of that work to be able to figure it out. So any
way to help, I think, the Board and the public understand what the valuations are would be of great help.
And I think that, in big part, comes from the scorecard development so we understand what we're looking
at. That's my only feedback on this. Otherwise, if there are no other comments, we can proceed to a vote
from the committee.
Last opportunity. I see no hands raised. Thank you, Madam CEO, for the presentation. Directors, at this
time, are there any no votes on this matter? All right. That passes with five ayes, zero noes, two absent
from the committee. Thank you very much.
We don't have any discussion items on this agenda today, but we do have a few other matters to attend to.
I am going to go first. During the month of September, I promised an update on the performance framework
and the timeline that we'll be using going forward. I have some of those details worked out, but there's still
a bit of work that needs to be done.
So first, I want to thank General Manager/CEO Debra Johnson for patiently working with me through the
distinct parts of the performance framework so that we have a good understanding of where we're at and
what we need to accomplish before the end of the year.

I have also had the pleasure of working with our Chief People Officer Charlene Polege and the members
of her staff who have helped us develop an internal evaluation tool set to be able to complete this year's
work in a timely manner. They have been hard at work for several months, working on creating an internal
version of what we did last year that was done through RKL Associates as a framework. And they helped
us develop the framework, but they also helped us develop the tools to do the evaluation after the framework
was completed.
Now it's time for us to take that framework internally so that we have access to it in the same system,
Qualtrics, and to adjust a few of the unknowns that we faced last year. So two things have happened in the
last few months, and I am pleased to report that we have made great strides. And thank you, Chief People
Officer Polege. If I say anything wrong, please jump in to correct me as work through this.
The instruments that we use to do an evaluation are a link that's sent to you. You basically fill out the form.
You do your evaluation. And you have an opportunity to both post a grade sort of index on several different
items pertaining to mission and values, base core job function, and the short-term goals that were set by
the Board at the beginning of the year.
That will level out across the number of directors that respond. We will have a score. That score will then
be calculated to achieve the percentage of pay increase that is merited based on the evaluation.
There's two parts to this. One is the form itself. That's what we've been working on. We own the information
from RKL. That was part of the contract. And so that was brought internally with the help of Chief People
Office Polege and her team. They have recreated that form internally for us because we also use Qualtrics,
but we needed to create that form here at RTD to do this work.
You will get an individual link that is only to you as a director, and your responses will be kept in confidence.
All of this work, I would remind everybody, is done under executive privilege. Nobody has the right to share
anybody's responses, including your own, with anybody but General Manager/CEO Johnson.
They will see these responses after they have been compiled. So several things will happen. And I want to
explain this process so that it's understood what we're looking at. Directors will be given about a week, or
a week, to complete the form, after which time myself and one of the appropriate members of the Board of
Directors-- and this has been in discussion with Vice Chair Gutschenritter. It could also be Chair Bouquet.
It just depends on who has the time and availability to meet with myself and staff to audit the responses to
ensure that what goes into the report to all of us is what you put into the system with no changes. And it will
be a random audit of comments or scoring that were received just to ensure that there's no changes from
what was submitted to what the Board receives as a final report.
After that, we will have an executive session in which our General Manager/CEO will present her selfevaluation to the Board, and we will have an opportunity to discuss that with her, providing some feedback
from the Board, hearing the evaluation of our General Manager/CEO based on the different facets of the
performance evaluation framework.
And then directors will be given an opportunity post that executive session, should there be a need, to
change their score. It will be a limited time. It may be 24 to 48 hours at the most. You will need to document,
along with any changes, the reasons why you would do that.
Upon completion of that time period, Director Gutschenritter and I will compile the data. We will finalize a
score. I will then take that to the Board Chair and the Board-- sorry. I will take that to the Board Chair to

discuss the results. And then we will have to have a vote on this committee to make a recommended action
to the full Board of Directors to approve a score that will be made public.
A couple of things to keep in mind. Because this is an executive matter and it is held in privilege, I would
highly and very strongly suggest that we not use any type of AI in drafting comments regarding this matter.
If you need support in that because drafting is not a strong suit, I will avail myself to help in any way that I
can. We can work with each other because we all have executive privilege amongst Board members.
But I really would insist very strongly that you do the writing yourself and not make it public in any way. You
run the risk of violating some privileged information. And the only person in this scenario that has the
authority to release commentary on their review is the General Manager/CEO. For that reason, I'm making
the recommendation here and now that you please paper and pencil, draft it on a Word document, but try
not to use AI in any way. I think it would be a mistake to do so at this point.
Many of the AI platforms pull information from what is drafted or questions that are asked and add it to the
algorithm, and it is searchable, and then therefore public, and it would violate our executive privilege. So I
really, really, really strongly encourage us not to use that as a way to do this work. This is one of the major
points of being a director, and I want everybody to understand that and respect our employees' right to
privacy in these matters.
What does come out after at the end is a score. There may be a brief overall high-level narrative that would
be shared publicly to justify the score. But personal comments that are from directors to the CEO about
matters pertaining to work need to be kept in privilege. That's my warning and my heads-up about what's
coming.
This month, during the middle of the month, Vice Chair Gutschenritter and I will meet with members of the
team appropriate to different parts of the tools that were created to review them. It is our goal to make sure
that we spot any mistakes before they get to the Board, and ensure the usability and the veracity of using
those tools. I have full confidence that we won't find too many things, but we might find a bug or two that
we need to address.
After having spoken with Chief People Officer Polege, the staff was amenable to doing that. So we just
need to find a time once their reporting is finished that we can go in and work on that and ensure that this
is ready for the Board. Did I miss anything, Chief People Officer Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thanks, Chair Guzman. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, as noted. I just want
to clarify one item just to be very clear. The comments, as Chair Guzman indicated, the comments that go
into the tool, into the assessment form, are confidential outside of GM and CEO Johnson. Those constitute
her performance assessment.
She will see, though, the comments are not confidential or anonymous within the form. So for recognizing
we have new directors, this will be the first time going through this process. Just wanted to make sure
whatever you put into that form will be attributed to the specific director who made that comment and then
shared directly with-- [CLEARS THROAT]-- excuse me-- in the form with GM and CEO Johnson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. It was in my notes, and I missed it because I was trying to do too much
at the same time. Anonymity during this process is not advisable because we want our General
Manager/CEO to be able to follow up with questions and engage with the directors' comments if there's

anything that needs to be understood or a deeper dive into a comment that needs to be had. And so
providing that information with our names attached is really important.
That came as a result of several years ago doing an anonymization of the commentary and not being able
to trace it back or receive the proper input. And that is truly unfair to any employee. So part of the assignment
of names to the comments was a decision that the Board made last year through this process, and we will
keep that going this year as well.
Does anybody have any question about this right now? There will be more to come once the testing has
been done and verification with Vice Chair Gutschenritter and I. I will give you more clear and delineated
directions, most likely at the first meeting in October of this committee on how we will proceed through the
end of the year to make our deadlines and what that calendar might look like.
And I will caution, we may need to have an executive session that is not yet scheduled to be able to do the
presentation of the self-evaluation of the General Manager/CEO. That would be done, I believe, under the
auspices of this committee.
Although I will work with Chair Bouquet because it is a full Board matter to determine who would lead during
that time. It should be myself, but I am certainly not required to lead a full Board meeting under most
circumstances. So are there any questions or concerns, anything that you are thinking about right now just
so that I can make note of it while I continue this process?
I don't see any. Chief People Officer Polege, thank you so much for you and your team's hard work on this
matter and working so closely with me on it. General Manager/CEO Johnson, thank you for allowing us the
time and the space to be able to do this work so that we can have it prepared for you and have a smooth
evaluation period this year. I really do appreciate it, and I look forward to our engagement with your selfevaluation to see where we are at.
Are there any other matters to be discussed? I do have a couple of things with respect to the work plan, but
I want to give members an opportunity. All right.
We did have a conversation earlier this year with respect to the time of this particular committee's meetings.
And the conversation didn't go away. I did have to put it to the side while we finished this year. The time is
prescribed in the Board Operating Guidelines to be at 8:30 AM on the first Monday of the month when there
is no holiday.
And so to all the members of this committee, I would like to receive an email from you with respect to what
you think is appropriate. I feel like sometimes we are really, really rushed for time in this committee to
complete things, and we have to be very succinct. It's not a terrible thing, but it does sometimes inhibit good
conversation.
And so if there is a-- hold on. Hold on. If there is a need to do that to potentially make changes, we would
need to complete that before the end of this year going into next year. Because we do have to take into
consideration and work with the general manager's schedule to be able to make that appropriate. But as it
is right now, we are kind of locked into this time until we make a Board Operating Guideline change and
decide otherwise. I saw two hands shoot up really quickly. General Manager/CEO, please, you first.
DEBRA JACKSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Appreciate the dialogue around optimizing the time
that we have here together. And while I recognize you did reference working with my schedule at the
outside, if I could offer up for your consideration while you requested that committee members send what

might be optimal, I would like to have myself in the mix early on so there's not a date that's agreed upon or
that works well that may be prohibitive in reference to my availability. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Absolutely. And this conversation wouldn't happen without you. It was just to get
feedback about if we need to make a change to the Board Operating Guidelines to give ourselves a little
bit more leeway in terms of when we schedule these meetings. Sometimes an hour and a half just seems
too short to get our work done, and I want to be respectful of that.
It also pushes you late past meetings that you have scheduled immediately after this committee on a
Monday. And I know that can be challenging and difficult, but that's a two-way street. It's challenging and
difficult for us not to have the appropriate amount of time with you and the agency staff that's necessary to
complete some of this work. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So in the Bible, the first commandment is "I am the Lord thy God." And it's
considered the most important commandment because it comes first. The first responsibility of the Board
is the oversight of the General Manager and CEO.
And I think that the fact that we have 90 minutes for this committee, but when I go to OSS those meetings
are scheduled at a time where if they need to go longer, they can, I feel like we almost treat this committee
as second fiddle, when I think that there's plenty of reason to think that it is the most important committee
that we have. So I would strongly support-- I don't really care when, precisely, but the ability to have a full
equal standing committee hearing the way we do for OSS and FandP
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I do not believe that the Board is in any way akin to the Lord God, but we
certainly are leading the agency. And so I can take the simile only that far.
But I do agree with you. Part of why we established this time in the Board Operating Guidelines was to
ensure that we pay due respect to this committee. It was a little bit forgotten in previous years by previous
boards, and it really does-- how did you say it, Lynn-- sorry-- Director Guissinger-- yeoman's work
sometimes?
And usually, it's all at the end of the year right around the holidays when this committee really, really has a
lot of ground to cover. And so hopefully, this year we have done our race well in terms of getting to the
finish line by having everything in place to be able to make it a smooth landing for the end of the year. But
point taken, and that is my bigger concern, is that we need to have the appropriate amount of time.
Of course, we do need to have the participation of the General Manager and staff. And that being the case,
we can't just determine by ourselves what works for us. We need to work with each other, as we do in most
matters in this particular committee. And so I would just invite you to send me an email about your thoughts,
about what you think.
Is it smarter to have the meeting just locked in for an hour and a half? Do we need to have more concurrent
meetings? Do we need to have a meeting that has a longer time period? And I'm inviting that from everybody
so that I can meet with our General Manager/CEO, have that discussion, and determine what is the best
path forward for this committee.
I am, I'll be frank, unsatisfied with the amount of time that we've had to spend with you as a committee and
the amount of work that needs to get done. And so I think we need to make a change. But I don't know the
changes that would work for everybody.

So that invitation is open. I would look for an email please during this week just because it's going to be a
busy week with meetings. And it will give me time to consider what next steps look like before I have my
next one-on-one with our General Manager/CEO.
Finally, as I look forward on our committee work plan, and I want to make this a regular function on all
committees, is that we look at the work plan to see what's coming forward. October is pretty sparse for a
reason on our work plan, if you look at it. And that's because I know and anticipated that we would be talking
about the performance review calendar and our dedication to it.
So we will have a discussion about quarterly key organizational performance metrics, in-depth conversation
around financial success. I'd like to keep the matter of the review really succinct. I will send out as much
information in writing in advance of that meeting, so that if there are any questions, we can address it
quickly. And then we will look at the financial success of the agency and that final pillar that we need to
review this year.
And then we were anticipating having a conversation and a discussion about the revised Board briefing
documents. Is there any objection by the members of this committee so we can focus on the other matters?
If we do that in an alternate way, either by email or by survey, we can determine what is going to be needed
by the Board of Directors for the Board briefing documents and make a recommendation to the full Board.
Would anybody object to doing that outside of the committee meeting so I can gather that information and
try and synthesize it for everybody ahead of time so we don't have to waste time here doing that? We can
actually focus on the financials, which I think would be a bit more important in the October meeting.
And I'm just kind of looking for a head shake or a thumbs up or something from everybody. Is that cool? All
right. Then, I will get to work on that with Mr. Kroll. And you should check your email before the end of the
week. Again, we've got several meetings this week, so it probably won't be until later in the week. But keep
an eye out for it so that we can get that feedback from you. Thank you very much.
One last chance. Are there any other matters to discuss right now?
DEBRA JACKSON: Chair Guzman, my hand is raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Oh, sorry. I didn't see it. Yes, please.
DEBRA JACKSON: Yes, thank you. If I may, as it relates to the Board briefing documents working through
this, my team and I are the ones that compile said data. So it's critical that we're involved in the conversation
relative to what might be advantageous for this Board's usage. So I would appreciate the opportunity to be
engaged. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Absolutely. Always. I wouldn't leave you out of that. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I would just chime in with regard to the Board briefing documents. I think that
one of the challenges we currently have with both the packets and the Board briefing documents is that
there's commonly data in those documents that is in Excel format. It's table data. It's other types of data.
It's images that would be more usefully received as digital files rather than a PDF, as Excel files, as image
files.
And so I'm wondering-- one of the things that I think-- would love to get feedback on from GM/CEO Johnson
and your team is what would be required to provide a zip file or whatever uploaded to that page with the

actual digital files with those spreadsheets, with that stuff, so that if people want to punch it into-- look at it
in the native format and do numbers on it, they don't have to convert it from a PDF file back to an Excel,
that kind of thing.
And then we have the same issue with the Board packets often where there's stuff that was originally in a
different digital format. But with regard to the briefing documents, is that something that we could talk about,
GM/CEO Johnson?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JACKSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Secretary Nicholson, happy to engage on
whatever topic is most appropriate. But I would state that in some circumstances, recognizing we're
providing data that's come from the organization, we want to ensure in the event that it's disseminated
elsewhere, that it's what staff has produced and hasn't been altered and is not-- that is reflective of the staff
work and actual data.
So contingent upon what it is you're actually seeking, as I indicated before, happy to engage. But that's
done intentionally as we move forward. So as appropriate, we can have a broader conversation around that
and what might protect the integrity of the data that staff is releasing. Appreciate it. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. We can continue that conversation. Please feel free to email me. Cc our
General Manager/CEO on those emails. That way we have an ongoing conversation, and we can compile
it and look at it together. I'm certain that we can figure this out without delaying further in our precious
committee time meeting about this particular matter.
Last chance. Any other matters? It is 9:09. I don't see any. Our next meeting date is October 6, 2025. At
that meeting, we will conduct the regular performance data deep dive on financial matters that we just
discussed.
In a moment, this committee will meet in executive session to further our dialogue with the General
Manager/CEO regarding her performance in meeting the agency values, core base job duties, and progress
towards the 2025 short-term goals. I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to
state that the Performance Committee meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into executive
session. For public transparency, this means that once the committee moves into executive session, the
main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to Section
24-6-402(4)(f)(i) of CRS for consideration of personnel matters regarding the Board's dialogue with the
General Manager and CEO on her performance meeting in the agency values, core based job duties, and
progress towards her 2025 short-term goals and input the Board of Directors on the same with the
amendment to adjourn the regular meeting as we adjourn into executive session. Do I have a motion?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Gutschenritter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information, Mr. Chair. Given that we're missing two members, how many
votes are required to go into executive session?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Four for the quorum, and we have five members present. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: It's actually five members for the vote to go into executive session per your bylaws. But you
have a sufficient number.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. OK, I have the movement as Vice Chair Gutschenritter, the second as
Director Guissinger. Are there any noes? Seeing none, I will request everybody exit this meeting and click
on the link to go into the executive meeting that is supposed to be there. Thank you so much.

