1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, January 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 7:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Director, District L

Present

7:30 PM

Kent Bagley
Jeff Walker
Bruce Daly

Director, District H
Director, District D
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

7:34 PM
7:34 PM
7:30 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:30 PM
7:34 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:30 PM

Angie Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

John Tayer

1st Vice Chair and Director, District O

Present

7:34 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:30 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

7:30 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

7:34 PM
7:34 PM

Natalie Menten
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:36 PM
7:34 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Fulton Bell, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, G. Johnson, Erin Klaas, Fernando Macias, Dustin Martinez,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, John Shonsey, Jim Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Greg Thompson,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan
Wood

Others Present:

Greg Amparano, Margaret Atencio, Ellen Belef, Karen Benker, Mary
Jane Brady, Joy Calabrese, Margi Clute, Eliza Cummings, Michael
Cummings, Z.J. Czupor, Marisa Dirks, Andrea Eichman, Carol
Esquibel, John Esquibel, Ahmed Gamamo, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Dale Honor, Nikki Jackson, Jeff Kraft, Jan Lasater, Shari
Malloy, Mariah Martinez, Julie McKenna, Bert Melcher, Bill Mosher,
Judge Larry Naves, Justin Newton, Ashlee Odbayar, Brenda Oster,
Daryl Oster, Joan Peck, Jacalyn Right, Bernie Rogoff, Antonio Rozier,
David Ruchman, Ali Shaikh, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Chelsea
Solano, Judy Solano, Manuel Solano, Dan Strammielb, Chris Taylor,
Carol Tobiassen, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Barbara Yamrick

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Government Relations Updates (State, Local, Federal)
State – Brandeberry-McKenna
Julie McKenna thanked the Board for allowing Brandeberry-McKenna to
represent RTD. They will support a bill carried by Senator Nancy Todd and
Representative Kevin Priola. They are working to help RTD increase the
sales tax collection and streamline the process in collecting what RTD should
be collecting. They are working with the Department of Revenue to make
sure that RTD is not over or under inclusive. Another legislative initiative is
to ensure that RTD is collecting taxes on items like soda pop and candy that
the State collects tax on but RTD does not.
Director Bagley stated that he looks forward to working with Julie and
Jennifer and thanked them for their past work.

Director Hoy asked if the tax collection is being done through the State
Revenue Department or through the State Legislative Process. Julie stated
that they are working through the Department of Revenue in making sure
that the citizens within RTD’s boundaries are paying the right taxes.
Director Hoy asked if the parity portion was going through the State
Legislature and Julie stated that was correct.
Director Lasater stated that in a previous meeting with a past Director, the
Director suggested self-collection for RTD. He stated that Parker and Castle
Rock entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement and began selfcollection. Between the two cities they found an additional $1.2 million and
he encourages RTD to continue this process and hopes that RTD will be able
to accomplish a similar ability which will help the agency better serve the
community with the correct funding.
Julie expressed they appreciate the support from the Board.
Local – CRL Associates
Roger Sherman congratulated all the newly elected Board members as well
as the newly elected Officers. He stated that CRL has met with a number of
county commissioners from Arapahoe, Boulder and other areas. He also
mentioned that there are some vacancies in different City Councils and they
are continually tracking those vacancies and will keep the Board informed.
He said they continue to work with the Metro Mayors and other counties
about long term transportation issues and how that ultimately helps RTD.
Director Deadwyler asked how large CRL’s staff is and how many are
working on these initiatives. Roger stated that they have 3 staff members
from CRL working for RTD. Director Deadwyler stated that she would like
to see a report that includes the outcome of the meetings instead of just a
list of meetings. Roger responded that they are the liaison with the local
officials. They can provide a government relations plan that has the goals
explained. Director Deadwyler would like to see the plan but also would like
to see what the results of those conversations are. Roger stated that it
allows them to have a better understanding of the elected officials’ point of
view.
Federal – Patton-Boggs
Mike Dino also congratulated the newly elected Officers. He stated that the
team is doing what they need to do to represent RTD. In Washington the
Government delayed the sequestration which would have taken effect last
week and reduced much of the budgeted amounts across federal agencies
including defense. They delayed sequestration because they raised revenue
on those who make $400K and above per year. He explained that most
employees will see an increase on their FICA tax for Medicare and Social

Security. One of the positive things is that they increase the pre-tax dollars
for transit benefits from $120 to $240; this will encourage businesses to
invest in transit passes. He also stated this is only a two month solution;
they did not deal with debt ceiling. By the end of March they will have to
deal with the debt ceiling, the end of 2013 fiscal year since it has only been
approved until the end of March, and the budget cuts. Patton-Boggs is also
working with RTD staff on final rule by the FTA related to ridership
calculations and New Starts grants.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - February 5, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:49 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee.

These minutes were prepared by Ana Ochoa-Salcido, Temporary.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

