Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 25, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 25, 2008

Subject: Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 25, 2008 at
5:30 pm.
****
Board
Members Present: Juanita Chacon, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Bruce Daly, Bill
Elfenbein, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Neil Quinlan, Wally Pulliam,
Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, Barbara Yamrick
Board
Members Absent:

Bill Christopher, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton

Staff Present:

David Genova, Lloyd Mack, Bruce Abel, Phil Washington, Kenn Hardin,
Bob Medina, June Eckwall, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Liz Rao, Steve
Pilon, Errol Stevens, Michael Washington, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee,
John Tarbert, Rick Clarke, Jerry Nery, John Shonsey

Others present:

LaRay Brown, John West, Lloyd Lovell, Shannon Dom, Don Ostrander,
Robert Duncan, Steve Roberts
****

Call to Order

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

I. West Corridor Outreach – John West of Denver Transit Group (DTCG) distributed a
presentation to the Committee. A copy of this presentation is available for viewing in
the DBE Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. Mr. West gave a brief overview of the
West Corridor project timeline. The 90% proposal will be turned in Friday, March 28,
2008 and then will begin negotiations on price. DCTG has received a change order
from RTD for approximately $25 million in early procurement/early work. Current DBE
participation in preconstruction is over 27%; the contract has a goal of 13%. Mr. West
reviewed the DBE Outreach efforts through Lloyd Lovell, the DTCG DBE Program
Manager. Over 425 personal contacts have been made with SBEs and DBEs. DTCG
has participated in minority focused Associations and Chambers events; they have
sponsored several events to get DTCG’s name out into the public and made aware of
opportunities on the West Corridor.
Mr. West also spent some time reviewing lessons learned to date for this project.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 25, 2008
Page 2 of 4

Director Martinez asked about the overall DBE goal for the contract. Mr. West
responded that the preconstruction goal was 13% and the construction goal is 18%.
Director Ruchman asked about how to speed up the process of certifying DBEs and
SBEs. Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration spoke about the
work of staff to assist DTCG with the assessments and the complexities of certifying
subcontractors. This process is getting streamlined and will likely be much faster on
future corridors.
Several directors had questions about the assessments and were concerned about the
project timeline being impacted. DTCG uses the DBE database list that is created by
CDOT and the City and County of Denver. The assessment that the FasTracks DBE
team does is not as lengthy. Phil Washington explained the processes this way, DTCG
looks at the SBE/DBE databases and selects firms they think may be suitable for work
on the West Corridor, and then RTD’s internal DBE team does an assessment to see if
they are qualified for the work. These assessments do not slow down the timeline for
the West Corridor project.
Director Ruchman asked about how the costs were being allocated for the DBE/SBE
work. Phil Washington replied that the assessments are done by the FasTracks DBE
team and is a separate line item in the FasTracks budget. The subcontractor
performance self-insured program is a line item in the West Corridor budget.
II. Subcontractors Performance Self-Insured Program – Phil Washington introduced this
item. Robert Medina, Risk Manager, gave more detail about the program. This program
is a joint effort between the legal department and Small Business Opportunity Office
(SBOO). One of the biggest obstacles for small businesses is bonding. RTD put
together this first of its kind program. RTD’s SBOO office and Marsh developed forms
to help determine which firms will need assistance with monitoring and also with funds
control. Monitoring encompasses reviewing all subcontracts and making sure financial
obligations are met (payroll, accounts receivable, etc). The District has developed
criteria to determine if subs are staying on work schedule and payment schedule and
also has a procedure to get them back on schedule if they fall behind.
The funds control portion of the program has not gone out to bid yet. This is a
separate procurement. Procurement will probably happen in April. The estimated cost
is $50,000 for five years. Mr. Medina does not want to go out to bid until the District
knows for sure that this program is needed.
Director Yamrick asked how the subcontractors feel about this and Mr. Medina
responded that feedback has been very positive, not only locally but nationally as well.
Director McMullen asked if there are serious problems with late payments back to the
subs. Phil Washington responded that there have been challenges due to the new ERP

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 25, 2008
Page 3 of 4

system and reviewing invoices. This District is asking primes to pay the subs before
the District pays the primes to help alleviate late payment problems.
III. Small Business Opportunity Office Activities/Update – Kenn Hardin, Business
Opportunity and Outreach Officer gave this update. An updated status report was
distributed and a copy of this status report is available for viewing in the DBE
Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.
Mr. Hardin reported that over 80 assessments have been completed on the West
Corridor and another 35 assessments are in progress. These assessments are a two to
three day process.
Assessments are not a determination of whether a company is qualified for work on the
West Corridor. If a company is selected for work and they have not been assessed,
they will be assessed after they have been selected.
Mr. Hardin reviewed the activities of the Small Business Opportunity Office. Outreach
has been well received in the legal community and staff has received lots of positive
feedback. Another outreach event is planned with several bar associations. Also there
are several planned outreach events around PPP.
Certification statistics – certification is up, averaging around 65 certifications per
quarter. RTD is currently above goal with the FTA for SBE contracts. Director
McMullen asked about the Park Meadows Pedestrian Bridge contract being below goal.
The Small Business Office has met with Kramer & Sons to rework this goal and they
are adding more DBEs to the contract currently. Director McMullen asked that the
Board be kept apprised of the progress on this contract.
Director Martinez asked about DBE goals and how they are weighed in contract
submission.
IV. FasTracks Participation Summary DBE/SBE Payments- Ty Perry, Contractor, introduced
Michael Washington, the intern in the SBOO. Ty Perry referred to the FasTracks
participation summary and pointed out two companies that are primes in the property
acquisition projects and meet the SBE/DBE goals at 100%.
Mr. Perry spoke that the DBE amount in the contract is 19%. The number that the DBE
business community is concerned with is the amount of dollars that are pumped into
the local community. That number is currently $23 million which shows that RTD has
a very strong commitment to the SBE/DBE community.
V. Legal Community Outreach - Juanita Chacon praised the presentations given by Marla
Lien and Rolf Asphaug to various legal associations. People were very excited about
the prospect of doing business with RTD. Marla Lien, General Counsel, said that people
were also excited about the new position for Associate General Counsel that has been

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 25, 2008
Page 4 of 4

posted.
VI. Other Items - Phil Washington spoke about the language that is included in RFPs
regarding SBE/DBE goals. A copy of this language is available for viewing in the DBE
Committee Meeting Minute Notebook. Mr. Washington also talked about the eminent
domain contract and how one contractor has really reached out to the DBE/SBE
community even though there was no SBE/DBE goal. Mr. Robert Duncan of Duncan
Ostrander, spoke about subcontracting work for photocopying work and they have
hired Keith Montoya as a sub for this. They will need a mediator and have contracted
with Elizabeth Suarez for this portion of the job. Duncan Ostrander has made a lot of
outreach efforts to recruit subcontractors and interns, and law clerks. A very talented
Hispanic lawyer in the eminent domain field, Rich Rodriguez will be joining their team
on April 1, 2008. They will need photographers, aerial photography, economic
analysis, make exhibits and land plans and they are committed to working with the
SBOO to get a more diverse group of people.
Director Chacon thanked the Board for their commitment to the DBE process and the
progress that has been made. Director Elfenbein commended staff and the Board for
their commitment to the DBE/SBE program.
VII. Other Matters – Director Brohl made a comment about attending the Goodwill “Power
of Work” luncheon and an intern from RTD received an award. Director Brohl would
have liked to have more notice that an intern was receiving an award. Director Brohl
praised the program for increasing diversity and keeping quality standards high.
VIII. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date is to be determined at a later time.
IX. Adjourn to Study Session - Hearing no objections, Director Chacon declared the
meeting adjourned at 6:47 pm.

