Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, January 23, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:53 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

7:53 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Remote
Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:53 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:53 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:53 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Chair

Present

7:53 PM

Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:53 PM
7:54 PM
7:53 PM
7:53 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:53 PM
7:54 PM

Director Anderson was absent. Director Deadwyler participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Nicole
Carey, Jessie Carter, Terry Emmons, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Chris Harmon, John Hersey, Pamela Kachka, Larry Kier,
Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Daniel Menter, Michael Porter, Scott
Reed, Ruth Seleske, Jannette Scarpino, Luke Sinclare, Greg Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika TreiplHarnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood,
Christina Zazueta

Others Present:

Kristie Brown, Steve Butler, Brian Cassidy, Bar Chadwick, Gary
Forbes, Dr. William Gross, Lynn Guissinger, Anne Herzenberg,
Heather Maresh, Jason McIntosh, Darla Ortiz, Siger Petraic, M. Scott
Ramming, Dana Saors, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Salaried Trustee Appointments
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______
reappointing Scott Reed and Derrick Black, to terms expiring 12/31/2020 as
trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 30, 2018
Board Meeting.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, said that Scott Reed,
Assistant General Manager of Communications, and Derrick
Black, Associate General Counsel, had previously served as
trustees and that their appointments had expired on December
31, 2017. She noted that a provision in the original
appointment stated that appointees may continue to serve
after the expiration of their term, so long as the appoints
served satisfactorily and RTD contributed toward their
education as trustees. She said both appointees had served
well and that, upon reappointment, their terms would expire in
2020.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Project Carryforward for SmartCard Stored Value
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $1,919,147
from the operating reserve to the Information Technology Base System
capital project budget, effective January 1, 2018, to allow for the
completion of the SmartCard Stored Value Implementation Project
(#10322) that was not completed in 2017. The operating reserve will be
replenished in the 2018 Amended Budget with the funds that were not
spent on this project in 2017.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 30, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

Ms. McKillop said that the SmartCard project was among the
carryforward projects that had inadvertently been overlooked
at the end of 2017. She said the recommended action would
allow the 2017 funding for the project to roll forward to 2018.

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• RTD Code of Ethics
Rolf Asphaug, RTD General Counsel, stated that he had worked team of
Leadership Academy representatives, whose project was to revise the RTD
Code of Ethics. That team included:
 Todd Kier, Supervisor of Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance;
 Raleigh Elstun, Group II Supervisor;
 Karl Shoemaker, General Superintendent of Infrastructure;
 Cory Petzinger, Light Rail Maintenance of Way Supervisor, and
 Pam Kachka, the group’s sponsor and member of the Education,
Development, and Training department.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the team’s task was to revise the code, which was
adopted in its current form in 2003 and only applied to conduct pertaining to
procurement activities. He noted that the vast majority of RTD employees
were not covered and that the new unified code applied to all RTD
employees and Board Members. He said the group reviewed FTA guidelines
as a basis for formulating the revised code.
Mr. Elstun said that the team solicited input from RTD departments,
stakeholders, and other agencies in determining which needs and concerns
to address, such as de minimis gift guidelines. He encouraged the Board to
adopt the revised code as soon as possible.
Director Menten asked how many hours the team had put in to the project.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the team met for two hours each week for the
majority of the year and continued their work during off hours.
Mr. Elstun added that the team also conducted interviews lasting an hour or
longer with members of each department.
Director Menten asked whether there was a fifth person on the team.
Mr. Shoemaker noted that Ms. Kachka also attended the meetings, in
addition to Mr. Asphaug, who he said gave considerable assistance.
Director Menten said she appreciated the group’s work on such a basic,
foundational product the purpose of which was to keep the agency on the
straight and narrow.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked who on the Board of Directors the team had
interviewed.
Mr. Asphaug said that he had spoken with former Chair Hoy.

Director Lubow noted that the language in the proposal stated that the
Senior Leadership Team (SLT) would approve any policies and procedures.
Mr. Asphaug said that the revised code would be approved by the Board. He
clarified that the previous version of the code contained numerous ethical
questions as examples, which were moved out of the revised code and into
separate procedural document. He said that any new procedures would be
approved more easily by SLT, as opposed to changes to the code itself. He
noted that the team concluded that the current code was too lengthy and
filled with examples that may or may not apply in a given situation. He said
the revised code was intended to be simple and that the more granular
procedural guidelines would be reviewed by SLT.
Director Lubow said that the wording about policies being approved by SLT
was concerning to her. She said she liked that the revised code was not
burdened with so many examples. She noted that the current code
contained language about impartiality, which she found to be a useful
concept.
Mr. Asphaug said the concept was still covered under the topic of integrity.
Director Menten noted that the revised code would be voted on by the Board
at a later date.
Mr. Asphaug said that he would make sure that specific references to
impartiality were included. Regarding the language about SLT’s approval of
policies, he said that it would be made clear that the Board would approve
policy and that staff would issue explanatory procedures.
Director Francone commented that she had the pleasure of a preview of the
revised code during the Leadership Academy graduation.
Director Broom asked if the agency had bonded individuals.
Mr. Asphaug responded that RTD was self-insured and said that the
Directors themselves were bonded in the amount of $10,000 pursuant to
state statutory requirements. He stated that the agency also carried errors
and omissions insurance.
Director Sisk said that influence peddling was one area in which he which he
wanted to see some tightening, particularly when Directors attempt to
influence the selection of contractors or subcontractors.

Chair Tisdale stated that he was aware of the challenges involved in trying
to draft a code of ethics as a result of having spent time on a Supreme
Court ethics panel.
Director Menten stated that the current code did not do enough to place
restrictions on contractors in cases where employees leave the agency to
work for the contractor after being involved with the selection of the
contractor during the solicitation process.
Mr. Asphaug stated that had been a frustration of his in the current code. He
said the previous was simplistic and that the revised code granted more
flexibility, allowing the agency to avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
He said the key was disclosure and that employees were not allowed to
work for a contractor within a 12-month period following their departure
from a position at RTD in which the employees had influence in the
procurement process in which the contractor was selected. He said the
policy created more work for the agency but provided better assurance and
integrity.
Director Menten stated that larger contractors often have many divisions and
noted that the employee in question could potentially leave RTD to work for
a different wing of the contractor’s company. She asked how many such
uncomfortable instances in the past 10 years Mr. Asphaug had encountered.
Mr. Asphaug said he would be uncomfortable going into detail in the
committee setting but did note that the procurement department is very
careful. He said the procurement staff would not even accept a cup of
coffee from a prospective contractor to avoid any appearance of impropriety.
Director Folska, Ph.D., asked how ethics provisions are enforced.
Mr. Asphaug Rolf said that Directors were elected officials and should speak
with him regarding ethics questions. He said that employees could be
subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Director Folska, Ph.D., clarified that she was referring to employees who had
left RTD to work for a contractor as described in the earlier scenario.
Mr. Asphaug said that little could be done to an employee once the
employee has left employment with RTD.
Director Lubow again asked which portion of the revised code covered the
appearance of impropriety. She said she could speak with Mr. Asphaug
offline.

Mr. Asphaug said that he would provide the procedural documents to the
Board as well.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop said that the Board Report included statistics on mobile
ticketing, survey responses and noted that a survey of mobile ticketing app
users resulted in scores ranging from 4.3 to 4.6 out of 5 for various facets
of the app, which was notable for a newly released product. She noted that
70% of users responded that they had already recommended the app to
someone else and that 66% of users were not using the app for commuting.
She said her department was still trying to digest the data from the survey.
She noted that the app experienced a few glitches at launch that were
quickly fixed. She said that the project was moving ahead with additional
improvements in 2018, such as a ticket wallet and additional fare
enforcement features.
Director Williams said that the mobile ticketing app was a hot topic of
conversation in the groups with which she regularly engaged.
Director Broom asked if a family could use the app to purchase tickets for
multiple family members.
Tonya Anderson responded that the mobile ticketing app was different from
the SmartCard in that it allowed for the purchase of both full fare and
discount fare tickets. She said that an entire family could ride with tickets
purchased on one app.
Ms. McKillop added that the app also allowed for future capabilities, which
the agency was just starting to tap into.
Director Sisk asked when the express pass would be available on the mobile
ticketing app.
Ms. Anderson said that regional and local fares were available through the
app and that a second survey would be conducted regarding the features
customers would like to see added in the future.
Director Sisk said that he would like to be able to purchase tickets for the
Route FF buses.
Ms. McKillop said that the Pass Program Working Group findings would be
taken into consideration, as well as the upcoming fare changes.

• November 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, said that tax reporting was artificially low in the
month of November due to rescinded tax filings from a utility, which were

initially filed in correctly. He said the utility would resubmit the tax filings but
noted that RTD may not receive the amount anticipated during the initial
erroneous filing because the taxes may have been collected outside of the
district.
Director Menten said the agency experienced a bump in internet sales taxes
in October and another in November from internet taxes. She said the
agency would hopefully see another bump from Christmas sales, even
though retailers had not reported robust sales.
Mr. MacLeod said that prior to October 2017 the agency received an
average of $600,000 per month in internet sales. He said that that $1.3
million in internet sales taxes were collected in October and $973,000 were
collected in November. He said it was difficult to determine the cause for the
jump but said it would be interesting to see what would happen in the
December report.
Ms. McKillop noted that 2017 was the first full year for individual online
sales reporting by taxpayers. She said that the Colorado Department of
Revenue was now able to use the enforcement mechanism of tax audits to
ensure compliance.

• 3rd Quarter Performance Measure Report
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
presented an analysis of key performance indicators. She said that the
figures, such as on-time performance and response time, were essentially
stable compared to the second quarter of 2017. She noted that ridership
was down year-over-year but had improved slightly over the second quarter.
She stated that fare revenue had increased year-over-year, as had operator
and mechanic vacancies.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, said that 11% percent of the agency’s bus service was
provided by employees working on their days off, which he said was not
sustainable. He said the Board would hear future discussions about rightsizing the agency’s service, making sure the agency did not overpromise
underdeliver, determining an appropriate wage for operators, and
determining which candidates for employment are the best fit for the
positions. He said he did not see the agency ending these issues in the near
future and noted that over half of the agency’s employees worked on their
days off.
Director Williams said RTD should make it known to the world that the
agency’s employees are people who care about providing service to the
riders.

Mr. Abel said that RTD is blessed to have committed workforce and that the
agency owes it to them to not require such a commitment from operators in
the future.
Director Archuleta asked why employee recruitment signs have not been
posted in Spanish.
Mr. Abel responded that postings have at times appeared in Spanish and
that he would share the suggestion with the Human Resources department.
Director Archuleta added that 250,000 Latinos who speak only Spanish
reside in the Denver metro area.
Mr. Abel said that was a great recommendation and noted RTD had been
employer of choice for Denver’s Hispanic community for some time.
‘
Director Archuleta asked what the agency was doing in union negotiations.
Mr. Abel said that he could not speak to that.
General Manager Genova said that wages have been flat and the agency had
a constrained budget. He said he anticipated seeing some significant
movement.
Director Archuleta said that he heard the union would strike.
General Manager Genova Dave responded that a strike was something both
sides wanted to avoid. He said both sides were working well with federal
mediator and that there were several sessions left before reaching a
conclusion.
Director Broom said that trucking companies were having a difficult time
recruiting employees as a result of the improved economy. He said that one
of the main complaints of over-the-road coach operators was that they were
away from home a lot. He asked whether the agency could convert former
truck drivers to bus operators.
Mr. Abel said that RTD had recruited truck drivers in the past and stated that
former boss felt that it was easier to teach someone to drive a big vehicle
than to be customer-service oriented. He said that the psychology of over
the road coach operator was one of not having to deal with anyone else. He
said that the agency needed operators with customer service skills.

Ms. McKillop said that the Board would see the agency rolling out a lot of
initiatives in the next few months. She reiterated that the agency would be
more selective in determining which candidates were more fit for the
positions. She said that the problem in the past was that the employees
would leave immediately after being trained. She said there was also a
retention problem and that employees were concerned with quality of life
issues and not just money. She said that General Manager Genova and
Andrew Gale, the new Senior Manager of Human Resources, were working
on human resources projects that offered a different approach to what the
agency had been doing.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska, Ph.D., offered her congratulations to Director Francone on being
named as Jefferson County Commissioner.
Director Francone thanked everyone and stated that her swearing in would be held
at 3:00 p.m. on February 6, 2018, at the Jefferson County Courts and
Administration Building in Golden.
Committee Chair Menten noted that Director Mihalik would take over as Chair for
the following committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 13, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

