Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
March 4, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 4, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, March 4, 2008 at 6:05 pm.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Others Present:

Chairman Christopher, Directors; Busck, Daly, Kemp, McMullen,
Quinlan, Brohl, Yamrick, Ruchman, Tayer and Martinez.
Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Susan Wood, Bill
VanMeter, John Shonsey, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp, Pauletta
Tonilas, Reed Everett – Lee, Brian Middleton, Paula Perdue and Lisa
Trujillo.
****

Call to Order

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.

1. Recommended Actions:


Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for
the Southeast Corridor Extension Environmental Evaluation/Basic Engineering
(EE/BE)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to
Parsons Transportation Group to perform an Environmental Evaluation study and
Basic Engineering for the Southeast Corridor Extension project. The contract
award will be in the amount of $2,073,699. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2008 Adopted Budget for the Southeast Corridor Extension
project and in the FasTracks financial plan for 2009 and 2010.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
March 4, 2008
Page 2



Recommendation for Contract Award to Parsons Transportation Group for
the Southwest Corridor Extension Environmental Evaluation/Basic
Engineering (EE/BE)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to
Parsons Transportation Group (PTG) to perform an Environmental Evaluation (EE)
study and Basic Engineering (BE) for the Southwest Corridor Extension project.
The contract award will be in the amount of $2,193,669.
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $600,000 from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the 2008 portion
of the contract. This action is required because the funds appropriated in the
2008 RTD Budget were not sufficient to cover both the costs of the EE/BE and
the cost of the Lucent property acquisition. However, the total funding for this
contract and the property acquisition is included in the overall Southwest
Corridor Extension Project budget as part of the FasTracks Financial Plan for
2008 – 2010. The 2008 Budget Amendment process will address the budget
allocation issue and restore the FasTracks Contingency Reserve.
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, discussed this item with the board –
On November 12, 2007 RTD advertised a RFP from qualified consultant firms to
perform an Environmental Evaluation and Basic Engineering for the FasTracks
Southeast and Southwest Corridor Extensions. Proposals were accepted for
either Southeast or Southwest or both.
On December 21, 2007 eight written proposals were received. On January 7,
2008 the Selection Committee which consisted of CDOT Region 6 Staff, one
City of Lone Tree staff, one City of Littleton staff and one Douglas County staff
scored the eight proposals. As a result of this meeting 4 consultant teams were
short listed, they are: CH2M Hill, DMJM Harris, Wilson & Company and Parsons
Transportation Group.
Interviews were held on January 17, 2008 and the Selection Committee
selected Parsons Transportation Group for both the Southeast and Southwest
contracts.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
March 4, 2008
Page 3
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
Contract Award to Parsons Transportation
Group for the Southeast Corridor Extension
Environmental Evaluation/Basic Engineering
(EE/BE) to the March 18, 2008 board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

Discussion: Director Brohl – had a question on alternative 3. If alternative 3 was
selected, which other 3 members would have been second choice.
Susan
indicated that they would need to go back and redo the evaluation and the whole
process. (This was followed by several minutes of discussion)
Cal explained the differences in the alternatives:
- If you went with number 2 you would throw out the process and start again.
- If you went with number 3 it still preserves original procurement but can throw
the recommendation on one and evaluate the remaining.
John Shonsey, Senior Manager, Engineering/Chief Engineer, clarified the questions
by stating that there are cost savings associated with contract – when they
initially accepted the proposal for both – the costs were negotiated. He also
indicated that there is a savings of 1 to 2 million, at least, for both.
Chair Christopher asked that staff give the board documentation of efficiencies.
The main motion was amended to include both the Southeast and Southwest
Contracts. Directors Tayer and Ruchman accepted the amendment.
Vote on
Motion:
2.

The motion passed.

Other Matters
Director Daly gave an update on Director Kinton.
Director Brohl indicated that she needs the three outstanding goals to be submitted
ASAP.

3.

Next Meeting Date
The next meeting will be held on April 1, 2008.

4.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Christopher declared the meeting adjourned at
6:41pm.

