Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 10, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
10, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Wally Pulliam, Bill Christopher, Barbara Brohl, Lee Kemp, Bill McMullen, Noel Busck,
Jack O’Boyle, Director Martinez, Director Daly, Director Tayer, Director Bagley, Director
Tobiassen, Director James, Director Cohen
Director Chacon arrived after the voting on recommended actions

Board Members
Not Present:
Staff Present:

Cal Shankster, Bill Holmes, Roger Sherman, Susan Altes, Terry Howerter, Carolyn
Conover, Teresa Sedmak, Bruce Abel, Phil Washington, Robert Merriman, Lisa Fliam,
Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Dave Genova, John Perry, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Rolf Asphaug, Brian Matthews, Bill Porter, Tony McCaulay, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter.

Others Present:

David Cohen, Holman Carter, Bruce Behnke, Herman Malone, Kyle Heaton, Lee Johnson
(First Transit), Gary Ulberg (First Transit), Terri Westerman, Jeff Leib

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.
Chair Kemp gave an update on the Metro Mayors Meeting that occurred this week. The consensus seems
to be moving towards seeking some kind of tax so that FasTracks can be finished by 2017. The question
is how to make it presentable to the public. There has been a lot of positive progress this week and the
Mayors are moving towards strong support of completing FasTracks by 2017.
Director Busck commended Chair Kemp’s leadership on the Metro Mayors Task Force. Director Busck
spoke on the importance of continuing this Task Force. Director Busck also commended Cal Marsella, Bill
Van Meter and Julie Skeen for their work.
Director Christopher asked when the Directors would address the question of going to the legislature
regarding the ability to raise the sales tax. Chair Kemp asked Director Daly to add it to the agenda for the
next Legislative Committee agenda on February 24, 2009.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 2 of 7

I.

Recommended Actions
a. IT Contingency Work Order
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award CIBER Inc. an increase in the third-year
current contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK008). This is an increase in
the contract limit with a not-to-exceed addition of $250,000 to support the automation of FasTracks
and RTD invoice payments using our Enterprise business systems.
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to CIBER Inc. through the competitive bid process to
support the Transit Information Exchange System (TIES) and other technology initiatives, such as
Enterprise Content Management. CIBER was one of three firms selected out of approximately fifteen
in an open-competition in 2006 and provides a wide variety of technology professional resources for
project specific-delivery. The work order contract has a specified 15% SBE/DBE participation. CIBER
has met this goal using sub-contractors American Automation, RTL Networks, and Allegory.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to forward this item
onto the February 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. US Leveraged Lease Modifications and Transfer Request – Teresa Sedmak introduced this action.
These transactions have been discussed with the Board since October 2008 and staff has been in
ongoing negotiations regarding these leases since then. In 1997, the District entered into two
leveraged leases 1997-A – light rail vehicles and 1997-B – maintenance facilities. The money
from these transactions were set up in escrow accounts and set up to make payments on these
leases. AIG is party to these transactions. Upon the downgrade of AIG in September 2008, the
documents allowed that we could be notified by the lessor in the transactions to replace AIG in
the transactions. It is due to the deteriorating credit ratings of AIG and Ambac that require
pursuant to the lease documents to replace them.
The documents do contain a “trigger event” that says if AIG does get further downgraded that the
District would have to replace AIG. It would cost close to $4 million to replace AIG. Ms. Sedmak
says she doesn’t believe this is going to happen as AIG does have securities set aside to make the
lease payments.
Director Christopher wanted to know what the total cost would be to the District to patch
everything back together and make things right with the lessor. Teresa Sedmak said $691, 000
covers it.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 3 of 7
Director McMullen wanted to know if the District lost money, made money or was it a push on
this transaction. Ms. Sedmak responded that the District did make money on the transaction.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the General Manager be authorized
to enter into revisions to the Participation Agreements and to transfer $591,000 from the General
Counsel’s Workers Compensation budget to the Administration Debt Management budget to fund a
2008 accrual related to the revision of the 1997-A, (dated July 1, 1997) and 1997-B (dated
December 12, 1997) U.S. Leveraged Lease agreements between the Regional Transportation District
(Lessee) and EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings
of Ambac and AIG. The total 2008 accrual based on current estimates for this obligation will be
$691,000. It is further recommended that the General Manager and the Manager of Debt and
Investments be authorized to execute such documents, transfers and security agreements as may be
necessary to effectuate the revisions to these transactions which are necessary to avoid an Event of
Default as defined in transaction documents.
It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) fees and
legal expenses related to the lease revisions in an amount not to exceed $500,000, RTD consulting
fees with Matrix International not to exceed $100,000 and related RTD legal fees with the firm of
Pepper Hamilton in an amount not to exceed $200,000.

Motion:

Director Martinez made a motion to forward this item onto
the February 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

c. First Amendment to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement – RTD Commercial Paper Notes,
Series 2001 – Ms. Sedmak spoke to this action. In 2001 the District issued Commercial Paper
Notes as a bridging measure for TREX. Between March and April of 2009, the District needs to
roll the Commercial Paper notes over until the expiration of the line of credit. This is primarily a
housekeeping item.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board approve the
attached First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the
“Agreement”) between U.S. Bank Trust National Association (the “Issuing and Paying Agent”)
and the Regional Transportation District.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to forward this item
onto the February 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 4 of 7

d.

2009 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision – Phil Washington introduced this item. This item is
brought to the Board annually. There is one change since it was last presented to the Board in
January 2008. This is a housekeeping item on the fiscal policies.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Budget Policies – Item 11, regarding the
District’s requirement to prepare a balanced budget.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know what the difference is between operating revenues and
revenues plus unallocated items should cover the district’s expenditures.

e.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto
the February 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe – Susan Altes spoke to
this action. Staff is asking for an extension on the contract between Alameda Station, LLC
(the former bus maintenance, bus operating facility), things required by the Board for the
contract to move forward are being checked off the “to do” list. One of the things the District
has had to do is go to the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) regarding the pedestrian bridge
from the property to the Alameda Light Rail station. The PUC was very agreeable. Burlington
Northern and Union Pacific were both agreeable subject to receipt of final plans. The District is
asking for an extension so the developer can get their final plans to both Burlington Northern
and UP, to finalize the PUC and also to have their voluntary cleanup plan reviewed by the City
and County of Denver. Staff believes that all this can be accomplished by June 30, 2009

It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents that may be necessary to extend the contract for sale
and development by and between the Regional Transportation District and Alameda Station,
LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through June 30, 2009.
Motion:

Director Brohl made a motion to forward this item onto
the February 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Martinez seconded the motion.

Discussion:
Director Martinez asked if the June 30, 2009 deadline was realistic. Is staff confident in this
date and will there be a need for another extension? Susan Altes said that she believed the
developer would have already closed but their lender is requiring that these last two items be

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 5 of 7
taken care of. Ms. Altes believes that with the favorable ruling we got at the PUC and
working with the City and County of Denver and the development of the Metro District who
will eventually own this pedestrian bridge that we will be able to close by June 30, 2009.
Director McMullen wanted to know when the bridge would be constructed. Ms. Altes thought
that construction on the bridge may possibly start by late this year.
Vote on
Motion:

II.

The motion passed unanimously.

Fourth Quarter 2008 Investment Report – Teresa Sedmak asked if there were any questions on the report
that was in the packet. There were no questions. Chair Tayer commended staff for holding on to assets in
these difficult times.

III. Fourth Quarter Internal Audit Report – Bill Holmes, Manager, Internal Audit and Scott Reed, Assistant
General Manager Public Affairs, presented this item. Mr. Holmes asked for questions on the audit report.
There were none. Chair Kemp spoke to the possibility of placing a “hold” on the vacant audit position. He
wanted the consent of the Committee because this will result in ten internal audits being done instead of
twenty.
Director Bagley wanted to know what the cost savings would be. Phil Washington said between $60 –
90,000.
Director Busck wanted to know over the last five years, how the audits have saved money, improved the
system, made RTD better.
Phil Washington added that there are additional outside audits that are performed regularly.
Chair Kemp said that he wanted to make sure that the Board understood this was a Board-focused internal
audit.
IV. Fourth Quarter 2008 Preliminary Performance Report – Robert Merriman gave this report.
Director Martinez spoke about his concern that Veolia did not meet the goals on four different
measurements. Is staff working with them on this? Bruce Abel responded to this that staff is working very
closely with Veolia on maintenance issues. Veolia has implemented a “Going for the Green” program which
is a customer service incentive program for the operators to improve the customer service skills.
Director Martinez asked about the bus mechanic vacancies and was very concerned about this number.
How is it affecting morale, are we facing mandatory overtime? Phil Washington said that in the last 30
days, more potential mechanics have been coming through the door.
Dean Shaklee said there was a large exodus in December with eight mechanics retiring that had over 30
years experience. Mr. Shaklee said they are close to mandating overtime but aren’t at this time. Morale is
o.k., Mr. Shaklee said the mechanics realize that these are tough times and people are grateful to have

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 6 of 7
positions. About three years ago, the District started the mechanic helpers’ position to try and “grow your
own mechanic”. Mr. Shaklee said that if the mechanics make it through the first five years, the District
usually keeps them until retirement.
Director McMullen wanted to know what the success was of “grow your own mechanic” and Mr. Shaklee
said that out of six positions, four made it through the program and two made it to mechanic and one went
to light rail and the other one went to facilities maintenance.
Director McMullen wanted to know if there was anything the Board could do to help recruitment process.
Phil Washington said he believed in the next three to four months with auto dealerships closing and other
businesses closing, the District may see an uptake in applications.
Director Daly asked what would be an incentive to bring young mechanics in. Mr. Shaklee said perhaps
increasing the shift differential for 2nd and 3rd shift might help. The benefit package that the District offers
is very good and much better then anything offered at a dealership.
Director Martinez requested if the district could explore an apprenticeship program where people from the
neighborhood where we will be locating facilities will have the opportunity to learn and to grow our
potential labor pool.
Chair Kemp spoke about the tool allowance and that the District should maybe institute a step program for
tools.
Director Martinez asked about the ADA on time performance and Bruce Able responded that under Trapeze,
the system was running at 97% on time performance and under Route Match, it is running about 94%.
V.

December 2008 Financial Status - Robert Merriman gave a brief overview of the report. Ridership has
increased 8% system wide over 2007. Sales and use tax is down over 2007 and this is quite significant.
We made our financial ratios.
Director Bagley asked if sales tax is going to continue to erode. Terry Howerter said that the Colorado
Legislature is predicting a 6% decrease until June 2009 and then a 2% decrease in the second half of
2009. Staff is projecting 4.8% down for 2009.

VI. Budget Update and Annual Budget Calendar
– Phil Washington said the District is looking at a base $23
million budget deficit. A memo was distributed to the Board outlining the mitigating procedures. FasTracks
budgets have been reduced by 3%. The Staff is trying to avoid laying off employees. Service Reductions
are a big part of this budget mitigation.
Phil Washington spoke to the Budget Calendar and reviewed the Board critical input points. Discuss will
start on the 2010 budget on the March 12, 2009.
Chair Tayer suggested splitting Budget Update and Annual Budget Calendar into two different items.
Mr. Howerter spoke about new reports that are now available in Oracle and each of the AGMs will have a
list to go through and check favorable versus unfavorable variances. The TDP will be reviewed.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, February 10, 2009
Page 7 of 7
Director Martinez suggested putting FasTracks savings measures in the District newsletters. Use email list
to let constituents know what some of the budget measures are that are taking place in 2009.
Director Pulliam suggested making the newsletters more relevant to the current economic times.
Director Tayer asked about the negotiations about the 2009-2010 fuel contract. Mr. Washington said the
District is currently locked in at $3.09/gallon. The District is in negotiations to try and negotiate the lock
down.
Director Tayer spoke about all the cutbacks and if there isn’t a reason to look at staffing. Mr. Washington
said that layoffs are not out of the question. The District is trying everything to avoid this.
Director Christopher requested calculations on furloughs, five days, ten days, 15, and twenty days. What
kind of money would that raise for RTD? Phil Washington promised those figures at the next meeting.
Director Chacon asked about where the point is reached where we can’t cut any more without hurting the
District’s mission. Bruce Abel responded that some of that discussion depends on how the Board defines
the mission (i.e. transit or mobility).
Mr. Howerter said that to maintain a balanced budget, service has to be supported by revenues.
Director Daly said he supports the District’s approach of not laying off employees.

VII. Other Matters – Director Tayer asked staff to give an update on the Trip Planner. Lisa Fliam, IT Manager,
provided that update. The Trip Planner software is very old and currently staff uses a consultant to keep
that system up and running. The Google trip planner is up and running. Staff will provide a report to the
Board. As part of the departmental budget scrub, the Trip Planner is being studied. Google’s commitment
to the Trip Planner has increased. We are not turning off the old Trip Planner until there is full confidence in
the Google trip planner.
Director Tobiassen asked if the call-n-Ride is incorporated as part of Google and Ms. Fliam responded that it
does not at this time but staff is asking for this from Google.
Director Christopher asked about the Federal Mandate on paratransit – do we want to lobby our legislators
about the unfunded mandates surrounding paratransit. He requested that this item is also added to the
Legislative Agenda February 24, 2009.
VIII. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be Thursday, March
12, 2009.
IX. Adjourn to Operations & Customer Service Committee
Chair Tayer adjourned the Financial Administration Committee meeting at 7:21 p.m.

