Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, March 21, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. She informed the Board
that the Updates section order would be changed, and Mobility Choice would be presented
first.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:06 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present

4:34 PM
5:19 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Remote

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:33 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:33 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:14 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:13 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:03 PM

Director Folska participated via phone. Director Sisk was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Ivan
Broce, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Brian Matthews, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Dan Perreira, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Roger Sherman, Henry Stopplecamp, Gerry Suazo, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kelly Brough, Mizraim Cordero, Crissy Ditmore, Jim Gunning, Doug
Gragg, William Gross, Don Hunt, Joe Triplett, John Thompson, Gary
Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Router Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into a sole source contract not to exceed $2,500,000 with Sierra
Wireless America, Inc. (Sierra Wireless) for upgrade of existing onboard
routers and purchase of new onboard wireless routers and associated
equipment (Contract Number 17DH004). This contract will include upgrading
existing routers with new integrated cellular data modems, purchase of new
onboard routers with associated equipment, documentation and training.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, stated that Eric
Farrington would provide an overview of this item.
Eric Farrington, IT Program Manager, stated that this
procurement is for multiple projects: Access-a-Ride fleet, Calln-Ride fleet, new trains, and the replacement of cellular data
cards on the fixed route fleet. He stated that the rationale for
changing the data cards for fixed route fleet is that the current
plug-in cellular data card has been failing at the rate of three to

five a week. He remarked that RTD needs an industrial grade
card instead of the consumer grade card to reduce
maintenance and provide stability. He noted that the previous
provider stopped making the cards currently in use, so RTD
had to seek a new provider.
Director Deadwyler asked how this upgrade would affect
Access-a-Ride.
Mr. Farrington stated that the Access-a-Ride fleet would be
upgraded in order to handle wifi, cellular data, and Global
Positioning Systems (GPS) on one device.
Director Williams inquired if this equipment is designed for
future expansion.
Mr. Farrington remarked that RTD does not plan to offer wifi
to customers. He stated that this upgrade is for onboard
equipment to network with backup equipment.
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker
NAYS: Kate Williams
ABSTAIN:
Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
AWAY:
Claudia Folska

• Budget Transfer for Increased Access-a-Ride Contract Costs
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board
Appropriated Reserve to the Access-a-Ride contracts for MV Transportation
(Contract 13-DH-053 in the amount of $1,700,000) and Via Mobility
Services (Contract 13-DH-055 in the amount of $810,000) to cover the
additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The total dollar
amount of the budget transfer is $2,510,000.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
stated that RTD has had very real challenges with meeting the
demands for Access-a-Ride service. He remarked that, with
the new vendor contracts, RTD’s vendors have been able to
recruit better, and their classes are full. He noted that there
has been a drop in return routes, and initial results are
promising. He commented that the budget increase is for
necessary personnel levels which will allow RTD to execute
contracts with service providers.
Ms. McKillop stated that there are funds available in the Board
Appropriated Reserve. She added that there will be ample
funds to backfill the reserve during the amended budget
process.
Director Broom asked what percentage increase this amount
represents.
Mr. Abel stated that the percentage increase is 13%. He
noted that fixed costs are unchanged, but the increase was
recognized in the variable costs.
Director Broom asked how much of a wage increase the
vendors are offering to the new operators.
Mr. Abel stated that wages have increased from $10.00 per
hour to $15.00 per hour.
Director Williams remarked that this increase has been very
effective. She noted that the Senior Resource Center has
filled their driver staffing needs and she thanked staff for
making this happen.
Director Deadwyler commended staff and stated that she has
seen a difference in Access-a-Ride. She said that the drivers
are excited and they are performing happily and timely. She
noted that this is a positive move and might provide RTD with
national news coverage.
Director Folska added that this increase is appropriate and she
would be supporting this item.
Committee Chair Menten declared that the motion PASSED
unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
ABSTAIN:
Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

• Budget Transfer for Increased Call-n-Ride Contract Costs
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board
Appropriated Reserve to the Call-n-Ride contracts to cover the additional
costs associated with increased driver wages. The total dollar amount of
the budget transfer is $176,000.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the March 28,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel noted that this contract was similar to the Access-aRide contract that was just approved by the Board.
Chair Hoy asked if these operators would get a wage increase
as well.
Mr. Abel stated yes, they would also receive an increase
similar to the Access-a-Ride operators.

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 0]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
ABSTAIN:
Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

C. Updates

• Mobility Choice Blueprint: A Public/Private Initiative
General Manager Genova first spoke about the RTD Board’s history with the
Mobility Choice Blueprint. He said that the concept was introduced to RTD

in 2015 when Don Hunt, principal of the Antero Company and former
Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation, and Kelly
Brough, President and CEO of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce
(DMCC), met with Chair Sisk and Director James. He said that months later
RTD staff was asked to participate in meetings between the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG), RTD, DMCC, and representatives from the private
sector to discuss the structure and scope of the Mobility Choice Blueprint
study. He stated that those meetings resulted in the recommended action
that was presented to the Board in September 2016, which failed. He stated
that, immediately following the Board’s vote on the item, the Mobility
Choice Board (MC Board) met to decide how to proceed. He said that the
MC Board changed their proposal and have brought it back to the Board to
be presented as an informational item. He said that RTD staff has been in
discussions with the MC Board because RTD regularly participates in
collaborations regarding the district, and he cited Denver Public Schools
(DPS) as an example of a such a collaborative partner. He stated that the
Mobility Choice Blueprint coincides with several items addressed in RTD’s
strategic plan.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, presented additional
detail on the Mobility Choice Blueprint, describing it as a public/private
initiative intended to maximize investments in the transportation system,
leverage technology to plan for future workforce and employer mobility
needs, and increase economic opportunities and quality of life. He said the
main idea is to encourage joint transportation planning by RTD, DRCOG, and
CDOT in order to avoid stranded investments, create a mobility strategy for
the Denver metro region, and leverage new technological advancements. He
said that none of the results of the study would be binding on any of the
agencies and that results may be so compelling as to encourage further
collaboration.
Mr. Van Meter said that, when the recommended action was first presented
to the RTD Board, the proposed cost of the study was $500,000 for each of
the participating public agencies, RTD, CDOT, and DRCOG. He said that
following the vote of the RTD Board the MC Board altered their proposal to
take into account RTD’s concerns about the cost of the study and the use of
its allocated funds. He stated that, for the public participants, the amended
proposal outlines that:
 100% of public funds would be used for study costs rather than for
administrative staff salaries;
 The proposed funding share for each agency would be lowered to
$400,000;
 The public funding would flow through CDOT, following the drafting
of intergovernmental agreements (IGA) between the agencies;



The technical scope of the study would be developed by agency
staff; and
 The study would include extensive public engagement and
stakeholder outreach.
He said that under the revised proposal DMCC and the Gates Family
Foundation would fund any administrative costs outside of the technical
study and that Mobility Choice would be a program of the Denver Metro
Chamber Leadership Foundation. He said that, in addition to the
organizations previously identified, the MC Board would include
representatives from two economic development organizations.
Mr. Van Meter said that the next step would be for RTD Board consideration
of the revised proposal. He said that, if that item were to pass, the program
participants would then proceed to draft a memorandum of understanding
(MOU) among the organizations, finalize public sector funding IGAs,
determine the contracting structure using CDOT as the vehicle; release
requests for proposals, and review and select the received proposals. He
said that the study could commence in the summer of 2017, with a
completion date in early 2018.
Director Broom asked whether, procedurally, a Director voting on the
prevailing side of the failed recommended action on the Mobility Choice
Blueprint would need to move for reconsideration of the action in order to
discuss the proposal again.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said that the item before the Board was not
an action item and that, since the proposal had changed materially, the
mover of any related action item need not move for reconsideration.
Director Lubow asked why the study included private sector input. She said
the recently completed Northwest Area Mobility Study had no private
component.
Mr. Van Meter responded that the private sector had pushed the three public
agencies forward. He said that, with the revised proposal, the public
agencies would take the lead in the study while the private sector
participants would use the results of the study and any information gained
to support pilot projects outside of the purview of the public agencies. He
invited the Mobility Choice representatives in the audience to answer
questions on their own behalf.
Mr. Hunt stated that he saw the collaboration between CDOT, RTD, and
DRCOG as an opportunity to move transportation forward. He said having
the direct input of large private employers was a good move and that
including private participants in the study would allow funding to hire
individuals to oversee administrative matters, pursue other funding sources

without the need for additional public dollars, and seek enhanced public
involvement. He stated that the private participants intend to use private
dollars to enhance public education and leverage public monetary
contributions.
Director Lubow stated that each agency would be asked to contribute
$400,000 and asked how much the private contributions would be.
Mr. Hunt said that private contributions would match public contributions
and that the MC Board had received commitments for that amount. He
reminded the board the amended proposal contained provisions to keep
public and private sector funds separate.
Director Lubow said she was concerned with the impact of the study on the
unfunded FasTracks corridors. She said she would suggest that, for the
purposes of the study, the unfunded corridors could be treated as though
they had been constructed.
Mr. Van Meter said that he understood Director Lubow’s message and that,
because FasTracks was approved by the voters, RTD staff would follow the
will of the voters.
Director Solano asked why other firms or university programs were not
considered in the request for information (RFI) process.
Mr. Van Meter said that the MC Board was the entity that put out the RFI
and said that responses came from 10 private entities.
Director Solano asked what caused the public agencies contribution to drop
to $400,000.
Mr. Van Meter responded that the RTD Board felt that $500,000 was a lot
of money and the proposal was revised to a minimum funding amount of
$1.2 million.
Director Mihalik asked whether RTD staff had any involvement in the
Mobility Choice Blueprint beyond the involvement of General Manager
Genova and Mr. Van Meter.
Mr. Van Meter responded that RTD staff had been involved in presentations
to the RTD Board and in meetings in 2016 in which General Counsel
Asphaug, Bruce Abel, and RTD procurement representatives participated.
Director Walker asked what was lost with the $300,000 total reduction in
funding for the study.

Mr. Van Meter said that the contingency reserve was the key piece that was
dropped and that the scope of the study remained the same.
Director Walker asked how the Board’s concerns about geographic diversity
on the MC Board were being addressed.
Mr. Van Meter said that the representatives from two economic
development organizations were added to the MC Board.
Mr. Hunt added that the MC Board was currently seeking input on which
organizations should be included.
Director Walker asked which geographic areas those organizations would
represent.
Mr. Van Meter said that the organization would represent business interests
in the northern and southern areas of the metro area.
Director Anderson thanked the participants for reworking the proposal. She
said she had concerns initially and wanted to make sure that Mobility Choice
was the right thing to do. She said that RTD does not undertake
transportation planning by itself and that RTD, DRCOG, and CDOT are at the
table. She said that the agencies need to work together to seek the best
investments to help the Denver metro area and Colorado stay vital. She
speculated that transportation would change rapidly over the next 20 years
and said that RTD does not have 20 years to plan the next transportation
system. She closed by saying she was in favor of the proposal.
Director Deadwyler said that CDOT sought to put forth a transportationrelated ballot initiative in 2012 and asked whether the Mobility Choice
Blueprint study is another way of preparing a ballot initiative.
General Manager Genova responded that the intent of the Mobility Choice
Blueprint was to look at scope of planning around transportation services.
He said that an early iteration of the proposal did include a ballot initiative.
Director Deadwyler said she was concerned that that General Manager
Genova was answering for the other agencies and asked what would they
say.
Ms. Brough said that the private sector does not become involved with a
project to seek tax increases. She said that DMCC has partnered with RTD
for decades to determine the most critical investments and said that
FasTracks is an example of that partnership. She said companies see that
transportation is important and that a public/private approach can be a more
successful way to accomplish objectives. She said that the participants are

not saying the study will surely drive a tax increase, though a tax increase
might be one of the outcomes.
Director Archuleta asked who would direct the study.
Mr. Hunt said that he had been the person to initiate the project and has
been working with the MC Board to determine potential candidates to serve
as executive director. He said that the primary candidate is Jim Gunning,
though he is not under contract, and that his contract would be worked out
by the MC Board and its executive committee.
Director Archuleta asked Mr. Gunning how much he would be paid and
whether that amount would be $10,000 per month.
Mr. Gunning said that amount was one of the figures that had been
discussed.
Director Archuleta asked whether his salary would be lower than originally
proposed because the current proposal would cost $300,000 less.
Mr. Gunning said that he would be paid through private sector funding.
Director Archuleta asked whether he would be willing to take a pay cut.
Mr. Gunning said he would probably be willing to take the position for a
slightly smaller salary.
Mr. Hunt said that it would not be appropriate to negotiate the terms of his
contract at the committee meeting. He reiterated that the current proposal
states the $400,000 from each public agency would go toward hiring the
technical consultant that would work for project management team. He
further stated that, if the MC Board decides to hire a director or staff person,
that person would be compensated by private contributions.
Director Tisdale asked whether it would be fair to say the proposal is
intended to prevent “siloing” of transportation planning.
Mr. Van Meter said that was one of the goals, as was support from the
private sector for pilot programs identified through the study.
Director Tisdale responded to Director Lubow’s concerns about
unconstructed corridors and asked for confirmation that changing a voter
mandate would require another voter mandate, rather than through the
unilateral action of an agency.

Mr. Van Meter agreed with Director Tisdale’s assessment and said that
would be the understanding of RTD staff.
Director Tisdale asked whether Mr. Van Meter had any doubt that the RTD
Board’s concerns would not be addressed.
Mr. Van Meter said, based on his engagement with the project to date, he
expected that the RTD Board would have a voice at the table. He further
stated that he expected the RTD Board would receive regular feedback
regarding the activities of the study and that the RTD Board would be able
to give directed input.
Director Tisdale said that DMCC has used a collaborative, broad-based
approach in the past. He said public participation and collaboration are
critical for public/private partnerships and that the Board’s place is not
negotiate private sector salaries or work conditions as long as an
organization does not use RTD funds.
Director Francone asked where the $400,000 for the study would come
from.
Heather McKillop, Assistant General Manager of Finance and Administration
and Chief Financial Officer, said that $500,000 had been set aside in the
previous year’s budget. She said there would be room in the unrestricted
reserve of the current fiscal year’s budget to pay for the study.
Director Francone said that Mr. Van Meter had mentioned stranded
investments and asked who determines whether an investment is stranded.
Mr. Van Meter said that the participating agencies would determine the best
use of investments and that none of the findings of the study would be
binding on the agencies. He said that the recommendations resulting from
the study would hopefully be compelling enough to give Directors
confidence to make the investments identified. He offered a hypothetical
example of a stranded investment, such as implementation of technology
that could not be cross utilized by RTD, CDOT or DRCOG.
Director Francone asked how the region’s rail system was determined to be
a top priority.
Mr. Van Meter said the MC Board made that determination based on the
billions of dollars that have already been invested in the rail system.
Director Francone asked why the report is necessary if that priority has
already been established.

Mr. Van Meter said that the study seeks to look at first/last mile transit, bike
and pedestrian access, a bus feeder system, and interactions with Uber and
Lyft.
Director Francone asked about the composition of the MC Board.
Mr. Hunt said the current representation includes eight private company
individuals, three representatives from public agencies, two at-large public
officials, and eventually the two economic development agency
representatives. He said the only limitation to the number of MC Board
members is the 21-member limit identified in charter. He said that the
project currently has a four-person management team.
Director Francone asked whether the current MC Board is a continuation of
the same organization that received $4.5 million from the Gates Family
Foundation.
Mr. Hunt said that he did not know of an entity called Mobility Choice before
his involvement in 2015.
Ms. Brough said there has never been another Mobility Choice and stated
there was previously a transit alliance.
Director Francone said the documents showing the contribution from the
Gates Family Foundation have been removed from DMCC website.
Ms. Brough said she had only been at DMCC for seven years but was
confident her organization has not received $4.5 million from the Gates
Family Foundation for a program such as Mobility Choice.
Director Francone said that Mr. Hunt had previously provided documentation
from DMCC identifying Mobility Choice as a sponsor to the DMCC
Leadership Foundation in the “$10,000 and up” category. She asked
whether that organization was the same Mobility Choice group currently
under discussion and asked where that funding came from.
Ms. Brough confirmed that the Mobility Choice identified in Mr. Hunt’s
documents is the same group as the Mobility Choice being discussed but
said she did not know about the $10,000 contribution.
Director Folska asked what kind of legal entity is Mobility Choice.
Mr. Hunt said Mobility Choice was previously a standalone 501(c)(3)
organization. He said that, when the MC Board separated the public and
private contributions following the RTD Board vote in September 2016, that
the 501(c)(3) designation was no longer applicable. He said the MC Board

then determined Mobility Choice would be a program of the Denver Metro
Chamber Leadership Foundation, which is itself a 501(c)(3) organization.
Director Folska asked whether the executive director of the Mobility Choice
Blueprint is now more like a program director now that the program exists
within DMCC, and Mr. Hunt agreed that was an accurate assessment.
Director Folska asked who has ultimate responsibility and authority over the
Mobility Choice Blueprint.
Mr. Hunt said that the program board would direct the program director and
that the program would promulgate a charter or operating agreement to be
approved by the MC Board, which would give the program latitude to
operate.
Director Folska asked who sat on the oversight board.
Mr. Hunt said that the oversight board is composed of Bruce Alexander of
Vectra Bank, Ms. Brough, Becca O’Brien Kuusinen of McKinsey & Company,
Brendan McGuire of Vail Resorts, Aiden Mitchell of Arrow Electronics, Brian
Oehler of IHS Markit, Jin Alexander Tsuchiya of Kaiser Permanente, and
Jarrett Wendt of Panasonic.
Director Folska asked why the oversight board did not include a
representative from one of Colorado’s public universities.
Mr. Hunt said he recently joined the University of Colorado as senior fellow
in transportation and stated that Colorado is weak in knowledge, expertise,
and interest in the area.
Director Folska said there are plenty of people who are interested in the
issues that are part of the study. She said she has been encouraging RTD
staff to partner with local colleges. She said she loves the idea of a Mobility
Choice study and that she thinks partnerships are critical to engage in open
source conversation.
Director Menten asked whether DMCC has already spent the $400,000 they
have committed.
Mr. Hunt said that DMCC is committing to the $400,000 contribution in
parity with the public agencies.
Director Menten asked how much DMCC has expended to date, and Mr.
Hunt said $40,000.
Director Williams asked to see the responses to the RFI process.

Mr. Hunt said he would supply those responses to her. He noted that RTD
staff has reviewed the confidential responses and that there are many ideas
that were incorporated into the scope of the study.
Director Williams asked whether RTD staff could condense the responses.
Mr. Hunt said that he had already prepared a summary, which could be
released as long as parts were redacted.
Director Solano asked why Mr. Gunning was the candidate selected to be
the program director.
Mr. Hunt said the MC Board ranked him as their first choice but have not yet
offered him a contract.
Director Solano disagreed that Colorado’s universities are not capable of
participating in the study and said that he has spoken with graduates who
said that they could undertake the study at a significantly reduced rate.
Mr. Hunt said that they did not respond to the RFI.
Director Lubow said that she was unclear on the structure of the Mobility
Choice Blueprint because of the private funding and private control. She said
her confusion has to do with the executive director being paid by private
money but controlling the entire project.
General Manager Genova said the project itself would be managed jointly by
the public agency representatives and the executive director.
Director Lubow asked what the executive director would do.
Mr. Hunt said that individual would be part of the project management team.
He said that person would determine whether sufficient funding existed to
conduct public outreach and would look for pilot programs to initiate new
modes of transportation. He said the director would have other
responsibilities to the MC Board to enhance the overall effort of the Mobility
Choice Blueprint.
Director Lubow said that she wanted to make sure no appearance of
impropriety existed. She asked whether private backers, such as Vail
Resorts, would reap benefits from the outcome of the study and what steps
were being taken to make sure that would not happen.
General Manager Genova said the program manager and public
representatives would drive the drive the day-to-day work of the study

rather than the private members of the oversight board. He said the program
managers would develop scope of work and that group would be equivalent
to a project management team at RTD.
Mr. Hunt said he was interested in avoiding any conflict of interest or the
appearance of any conflict. He said that the attorney of the MC Board has
made it clear that board members represent the entire board, rather than
private interests.
Director Lubow said she had concerns that the RTD Board would not be
informed of developments with the study and that the Board should be able
to have impact on scope of the work and the study’s conclusions so as not
to be surprised.
Director Francone said she does not disagree with concept of the study but
does disagree with the format. She asked what would happen in the event
that a program management team, which is composed of four people, ended
in a tie.
Mr. Van Meter said that the program management team would use CDOT’s
standard procurement process, which utilizes a scoring system, and that
there would not be a tie.
General Manager Genova said the selection process would be like RTD’s
selection process.
Director Francone asked whether any of the private MC Board members
have any financial interest in those firms.
Mr. Hunt said they do not and that the MC Board policy states that
members, and their firms, may not participate in the study.
Director Francone asked Mr. Hunt if he had responded to the RFI, and Mr.
Hunt said he had not.
Director Solano asked whether anyone was familiar with Senate Bill 17-213
regarding autonomous vehicles.
Mizraim Cordero from DMCC said his organization is in support of that bill,
which defines an automated vehicle under Colorado law. He said that
companies who are developing autonomous vehicles in the state must work
with CDOT, Colorado Department of Revenue (CDOR), and law
enforcement.
Director Solano asked why the study was necessary in light of the bill.

Mr. Cordero said the bill merely establishes a framework for what an
autonomous vehicle is.
Director Folska asked how long the study would take to complete.
Mr. Van Meter said it would be completed in approximately nine months.

• Quarterly Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit, stated that she and Kevin Parker,
Senior Auditor, would provide the Audit Committee update. She commented that the
Audit department performs the work and makes recommendations, and management
implements those changes. She noted that in December the annual audit plan was
changed to focus on the value that the Audit department adds rather than the number of
audits completed. She commented that the Audit department wants to start a dialogue
with the committee to improve and add value to RTD. She highlighted that the Audit
annual calendar outlines the audit planning process and quarterly reports will include
current events, critical findings, emerging trends, and the results of follow up activities.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop stated that the following audits are currently in progress:
 IT General Controls
 IT Access Controls
 FasTracks Staffing
 FasTracks Openings
 Smart Card Stored Value Development
 Overtime Audit
 Gifts and Promotions
Ms. Isaac-Heslop noted that follow-up audits are expected to be completed according to
the calendar provided.
Director Anderson asked if these audits were requested by the Board.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop commented that they were from the audit plan that was approved by the
Board.
Director Anderson stated that her concern was if the Board had asked for audits that
interfered with management being able to perform their duties.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop remarked that in the 2017 audit plan there was a list of audits requested
but not able to be completed due to lack of resources.
Director Deadwyler said she was disappointed that some of the Board requested audits
were removed, such as the audit for Access-a-Ride.

Ms. Isaac-Heslop said it was included, but it would not be done until the end of the year.
The 2017 calendar included in the presentation only covered audits from January through
June.
Committee Chair Menten reminded the Board that Ms. Isaac-Heslop’s request for
additional resources was not approved last year.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop stated that was correct. She added that a full time employee should be
hired instead of a temporary employee because of the confidential nature of the
information included in the audits.

• Fiscal Sustainability Update
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, stated that the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force was formed in 2010. In 2011, high priority items were included,
which RTD implemented.
Task Force recommendations that were completed were:
 Removing the Volatility from Sales and Use Tax Projections
 Service Optimization
 Fund Balance Policy
 Sales and Use Tax Exemptions
 Technology and Energy Innovation
 Sales and Use Tax Compliance Reviews
Recommendations that are ongoing:
 Naming Rights
 Partnerships and Privatization
Recommendations with low priority:
 Charge for Parking
 Tolling and Managed Lanes
 Home Rule Initiative
Director Williams stated that the Board just spent two hours discussing Mobility Choice, an
ongoing recommendation under Partnerships and Privatization.

• Budget/SBP/ and Financial Plan Calendar
Ms. Scarpino remarked that the purpose of this calendar is to assist the Board with
collaboration throughout the year. She noted that key dates are:
 April 11th
 June 20th
 June 27th





August 8th
August 15th
November 28th

• SmartCard Project Update
Tonya Anderson, Manager of Electronic Fare Operations, commented that the King
Soopers kiosk continues to operate without any technical issues. She added that King
Soopers has posted $1,000 in sales, and Safeway has posted $800. She noted that
Safeway has signed the agreement and staff anticipates they will install all of the
machines within the next month. She added that as of this update, King Soopers is
running a few weeks behind Safeway.
Ms. McKillop noted that Safeway has two pilot stores open, and all of the Safeway stores
may be completed before King Soopers. She added that RTD is still on track for the go
live date on May 10, 2017.
Chair Hoy asked if RTD’s goal is to have all of the stores installed with RTD’s technology.
Ms. Anderson said yes, the goal is to have machines in as many stores that will allow it.
Director Francone asked for an explanation of the May 10th go live date.
Ms. McKillop stated that RTD will go live with the Smart Card portal on May 10th with the
current smart card test participants. They will test the site for two weeks, and then it will
open to the general public on May 24, 2017. She added that in order to get a smart card,
someone must acquire it from RTD first, but they can then reload the card from home or
from one of the stores.
Director Francone commented that she had requests for information from the Colorado
School of Mines as they try to work out their summer pass program.
Ms. McKillop said a member of staff would contact the Colorado School of Mines but
noted that, depending on what type of information they are looking for, it might not be
available to them.
Committee Chair Menten asked how many transactions the $1,800 equaled to at King
Soopers and Safeway.
Ms. Anderson remarked that there were 33 transactions at King Soopers and 20 at
Safeway.

• Fourth Quarter 2016 Performance Report

Ms. Scarpino commented that for 2016 on-time performance continued to be a
challenging area. She noted that Regional performance improved, and the level of
customer complaints decreased.
Ms. McKillop added that RTD met 89% of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) last year.

• January 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Ms. McKillop stated that sales and use tax is down 4.5% and said staff set aside funds in
the operating reserve in anticipation of lower revenues. She noted that CU Leeds School
of Business should publish their forecast the following week, and staff will present their
findings through the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the Amended Budget. She added
that ridership is down 1%, and fare revenue is down $658.

• Monthly Payment Register
Committee Chair Menten stated that this update item was for informational purposes only.
She added that CU Leeds School of Business would present their forecast to the Board at
the April 11, 2017 Financial Administration and Audit committee meeting.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 11, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:03 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

