2023-10-02
Performance Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good morning, everybody. Nice to see you all. The Monday, October 2nd Performance
Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 8:30, 8:31 now, AM Mountain Daylight Time. I
would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak.
Thank you for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are continuing to be held remotely via Zoom, and they will be audio and video recorded, as always. These
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on
the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, as always, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during this morning's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and
wait for me to call upon you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone, you
can raise your virtual hands to indicate you would like to speak by pressing star 9, and you can toggle
your mute settings by pressing star 6. I will now go ahead and call for the roll of committee members.
Director of Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Board Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guzman. Committee Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here. And I see, Director Guzman, you have joined?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, I am here, sorry. I'm having some technical problems.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Right on time. Thank you. Just calling the roll, so perfect timing. That is
five committee members present, one absent, with the absence being Director Buzek. For the sake of the
record, I also see that we are joined by Director Rosenthal. Thank you for joining, Director.
All right. We'll now move into the public comment section. I'll open up for public comment to anyone who'd
like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current

and for the immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not done so, you may raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct
comments or responses. However, if you'd like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you may
email the RTD Board at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
I'm not seeing any hands raised and I'm not aware of any email comments that were submitted. Can the
Board Office confirm?
JACK KROLL: That's correct. We haven't received any specific outreach regarding this committee
meeting. And I also, likewise, do not see that there's anyone here from the public who is indicating an
interest in speaking.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate it. With no participants in the queue and with no
emailed comments, we'll close public comment at this time. We have no recommended actions this
evening, I'm sorry, this morning. I'm so used to evenings at RTD. We have two discussion items this
morning, but no recommended action.
The first item is the results of the 2023 Employee Survey and the data evaluation. I'll be handing this off to
Ms. Leah Riley, our Chief Administrative Officer. So Ms. Riley, would you please go ahead and proceed
with presenting the item.
LEAH RILEY: Great, thank you so much, Chair Davidson, and good morning, members of the committee.
Give me just a second to get this set up for screen sharing.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for doing the screen share.
LEAH RILEY: [LAUGHTER] I'm going to do this one. Hold on just a second. And then let me know if that
works. Do you see the slide deck?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Looks great.
LEAH RILEY: OK, thanks so much. Again, as the Chair said, I'm here today to present to you all the
results of the 2023 employee survey.
So what I'm going to cover with you all today is-DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may, I'm not able to see her presentation. I don't know if it's just me or
are there others having that problem?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, it's showing up fine for me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I see it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Everybody else able to see this?

DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, all right, so it's something happening with my Zoom. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure, no problem.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Sorry about that.
SPEAKER: I also unable to see it here at Blake Street, so.
LEAH RILEY: Would you like me to continue or do you want to pause so we can get the issue resolved?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Can any committee member raise their hand if they are unable to see the
presentation. OK, seeing none. Let's go ahead and proceed with the presentation since the committee
can see it. Ms. Riley, thank you very much for that. And if there's something that IT could assist with at
the Board Office might be able to help with those at Blake who are unable to see it in the background,
that would be great. But Ms. Riley, please go ahead. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: OK, sure. So I'm going to be covering the employee Net Promoter Score. I'm going to be
going over a new score that I'll talk more about later in the presentation. It's the Composite Index Score.
I'll cover the results of employee satisfaction with internal services, and then also questions about overall
work experience. And then I'll cover some highest and lowest positivity metrics to talk more about what
we would address moving forward.
So first, I want to share with you some information about how the survey was administered and
structured, and then talk a little bit about response rate and participation throughout the agency.
So in administering the survey, we did it over a four week period to align with work shift selection. We
supplemented this with 23 in-person events at 9 different facilities, and employees were given several
means to complete the survey. They could do it at the events with a tablet or a printed survey, it was
made available online via SurveyMonkey, and we also had printed copies available at all of our
operations and maintenance facilities.
So the survey had five job-related questions regarding department, work location, tenure, representation,
supervisory status, and it also included the measurement on the employee Net Promoter Score, which I'll
get into later in the presentation. And it engaged employee satisfaction with 11 internal services, and this
was done using a Likert scale that ranged from very satisfied to very dissatisfied. And also using a Likert
scale, it included 17 positive or negative response questions regarding several aspects of employee
ownership. And lastly, we included five open ended questions to allow for more qualitative feedback
regarding employees' work experience.
Our response rate this year was excellent-- 47% of active employees completed the survey, which is an
improvement from the already impressive 37% from last year. As you can see from this slide, our total
employee count has changed in the last year, so you can see the actual numbers here as well.
So some of the things that likely impacted survey participation, increasing it this year over last year, is the
survey period was longer-- four weeks this year compared to two weeks last year. And the paper option--

we didn't do a paper option last year. Just introduced that this year, and 17% of the respondents used the
paper, so we'll continue to do that.
We also had some challenges with some of our technology that we were using for the survey and the inperson events last year. This year we have tablets, and they functioned much better and were much
easier to use. And even though the survey was longer this year because we included more open-ended
questions and had a few more internal services, we still had a greater response rate.
This slide, you can see the percentage of responses by department, and you can see that they mostly
align with employee counts in the various departments. So for example, Bus Operations has the most
employees in the agency. They also have the highest response rate for the survey. Employees were also
provided the option to choose Other as their department, so this is for folks who weren't sure which
department they aligned to, so Other captures, "I'm not sure", "My department's not listed", or "I work for
another department that's not included on this survey".
So now I'm going to move into the results for the employee Net Promoter Score. And the ENPS, it's a
high level indicator that can be used to gauge employee ownership, and it's a widely used metric to
evaluate customer loyalty to a product or service. And while it's typically an external measure, it can be
adapted as one way to measure an employee opinion, attitude, perceptions.
The question that's used to calculate the Employee Net Promoter score is, "How likely are you to
recommend working at RTD to friends or family?" It's measured on a scale from 0 to 10, in which
responses of 0 to 6 are labeled as detractors, responses from 9 to 10 are labeled as promoters.
The percentage of the detractors is then subtracted from the percentage of promoters, giving the overall
Net Promoter Score, which is measured on a scale of negative 100 to positive 100. And I'll just add that
those who answer 7 or 8 are viewed as passive and their responses are not used in the calculation. So
we had 34% promoters minus 35% detractors. Our Net Promoter Score for 2023 is negative 1.
So comparing this year's Net Promoter Score to last year's requires a little bit of a discussion because we
used a different scale last year in our Employee Survey. We used more of a Likert scale in 2022. So in
2022 the responses of Likely and very Likely were counted as promoters and Very Unlikely, Unlikely, and
Somewhat Unlikely were counted as detractors. And just as the other equation, you subtract the
detractors from the promoters, and that gave us a Net Promoter Score of 38.
This is not the industry standard for a Net Promoter Score calculation, so comparing the 2022 ENPS to
38 of 2023's ENPS of negative 1 is not an apples to apples comparison. So we fixed that.
So what we did to compare the 2022 scale to the 2023 scale-- researched mathematical equation that
you can do to convert a 7 point scale to an 11 point scale. So the data conversion that was conducted
was reviewed and validated by our internal auditors at RubinBrown, so these numbers are solid. So the
conversion of the 2022 scale results in an Employee Net Promoter Score of 4. So 4 in 2022, negative 1 in
2023.

Next, I want to talk to you about the Employee Composite Index score, which is a new metric that we
introduced in the 2023 survey. And more agencies are moving towards this score because it's a more
robust reflection of employee engagement and satisfaction. So like other Composite Index Scores you
may know about, the one that we used in our Employee Survey takes the average of six questions that
capture engagement, support, and safety.
So understanding how your performance is linked to the success of the organization, feeling physically
safe in your work environment, feeling comfortable taking risks, expressing ideas, speaking up with
questions, admitting mistakes, knowing your supervisor's invested in your growth and success, having the
tools to do your job, and feeling safe from crime in the work environment. So for each metric here, the
percentage of those responding Agree or Strongly Agree are captured and then cumulatively averaged to
calculate the Composite Index Score.
As you can see here from the starred questions, these are new metrics that were added to the 2023
Employee Survey to generate the Composite Index Score, so we don't have comparison of those to 2022.
As you can see, our Composite Index Score is 62%.
So now I'm going to go into the responses related to satisfaction with internal services. Employees were
asked to rate how satisfied they were with 11 internal services we asked about 7 last year, so there's four
new ones this year that you'll see.
This slide and the next one show the percentage of satisfied and very satisfied responses to each of the
internal services measured. They're listed in order of highest to lowest for 2023. For the metrics that we
queried in 2022, the data is shown for those internal services for comparative purposes.
And as you can see from this slide, satisfaction with Facilities Maintenance was the highest this year, and
an improvement over 2022. And then we have Bus Operations, Finance, Rail Operations, and then
General Counsel.
So moving on down the line, again, it captures satisfied and very satisfied. And I want to point out, it's
really important to note that this question of satisfaction with internal services, it's measuring somebody's
perception, or their attitude, or their opinion in a single snapshot of time. This does not measure actual
employee performance in any of these areas.
So moving down to the list, again, in descending order of satisfaction then goes to Civil Rights, IT,
Communications & Engagement, Human Resources, Transit Police, and then the lowest favorability is for
Contracts & Procurement.
The next four slides are going to show you the responses to agency-wide favorable 17 positive, negative
questions. It's divided amongst four slides that show the data for 2023. Afterwards, in the presentation,
next there'll be a comparison to the 2022 data for the questions for which we asked last year as well. All
of the questions in this survey were worded in the affirmative, so a favorable response is defined as
selections of Agree and Strongly Agree. So let's look at these responses.

Here we see the five questions that were rated most favorably. Again, these results are displayed in
descending order. The metric with the highest favorability overall, at 83% of survey participants Agreeing
or Strongly Agreeing, is "My supervisor treats me with respect". This is fantastic, great news. This is
followed by understanding how employee's role influences agency's mission and vision, how their
performance is linked to the success of the organization, having trust in their supervisor to make
decisions that align with the values of the organization, and understanding RTD's mission and vision.
Moving down the list where favorability is still in the 60% range, there's positivity around receiving
frequent and meaningful feedback, feeling physically safe at work, psychological safety, and supervisors
being invested in their employee's growth and success.
And favorability for the next four metrics starts to decline a little bit. These show favorability for receiving
feedback and contributions to organizational success, trust in department managers to make decisions
that align with the values of the organization, having these resources to perform your job, and feeling that
individual perspectives are invited and valued.
And these are the lowest four metrics. Having access to professional development opportunities, being
adequately informed about agency news, projects, and initiatives, being tools to provide to grow their
career, and feeling safe from crime in the work environment, which was the least favorable metric overall
by quite a bit.
So now I want to talk a little bit about the metrics where we had the largest improvement and then our
lowest favorability about how there are improvement opportunities within those results. So let's start with
the largest improvement.
And we saw the largest improvement about understanding the agency's mission and vision. In 2023, the
Employee Ownership Task Force changed the wording from vision and direction to mission and vision.
And in the survey we also added the wording of mission and vision to the question because the question
is really intended to get at whether the employee understands it, rather than they've memorized it word for
word.
So 70% of all survey participants Agree or Strongly Agree, which is a major improvement from last year.
The right side of the slide breaks out the data for how supervisors, non-supervisors, represented, and
non-represented employees rate this question, with supervisors and non-represented employees being
more favorable.
Another question that showed significant improvement this year is about internal communication. We
changed the wording on this question for clarity. In 2022 was agency developments and this year we
gave it a little more definition to agency news, projects, and initiatives. And 56% of all survey participants
Agreed or Strongly Agreed with this question.
This question had the lowest percentage of favorable responses last year. And again, this year it's still in
the bottom three, but it's the third lowest, so there's some improvement. And you can see that supervisors

were more favorable to this question than non-supervisors. And again, non-represented employees were
more favorable than represented employees.
So let's talk about the improvement opportunities we can identify from this survey. These three metrics
were ranked lowest in the favorability overall. The third lowest is what we just discussed, what had a
significant increase in favorability in 2023. But it's also, again, in the lowest overall.
So next lowest is tools to grow my career, and the lowest overall, and quite a stretch, is I feel that I'm safe
from crime in the work environment.
So now that we have these results, I'm going to just talk briefly about what's next to take actionable steps
to move the needle. These three metrics with the lowest favorability are going to shape the work of the
Employee Ownership Task Force. The Task Force is a group of mid-level to front line employees who
come together to define solutions to the challenges the agency is facing regarding employee ownership.
And because the employees who make up the Task Force represent various departments throughout the
agency, represented and non-represented employees, and because they're on the ground, they have the
intimate knowledge of which solutions are going to work and what can actually be implemented, so
they're best situated to make recommendations to leadership on strategies to move the needle.
The Task Force is broken into three subcommittees, each focused on one of the metrics that you see
here, and they're supported by a management champion to guide their work towards implementation. In
addition, internal focus groups are being leveraged to dive into causal factors for the internal service
metrics with the lowest favorability to understand pain points and, of course, correct service delivery,
where feasible.
So let me close out by saying that employee ownership is important to all of our strategic priorities. After
all, we are people who move people, and it's our employees who provide customer excellence, and in
doing so, provide value to the community. And they contribute to RTD's financial success, thus creating a
continuous cycle.
And as individuals, each employee contributes to the agency's mission and vision through their work.
Employees are the foundation, and only through their work will RTE achieve its vision of being the trusted
leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers in the community. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Riley, for the presentation, and to all who worked on the
survey. I'm going to open up for questions and discussion. Just before I do, I'll note that committee
member, Director Buzek, has joined us and is now present. And I will also note, for the sake of the record,
that Director Tisdale has joined us as well.
So once again, Ms. Riley, thank you for the presentation. Questions, comments, discussion from
Directors, please. Yes, Committee Vice Chair Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you for the presentation. In general, excellent results, and I have one
comment and one question. The comment is, it does occur to me that this workforce, at least the front line
operators, doesn't have much opportunity to interact during their work day. So it's an unusual workforce,
and I appreciate your efforts to make them a cohesive group.
I had one question about the subjective open-ended comments that the employees had an opportunity to
give. Could you give us the gist of some of those comments? Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Sure. Chair, may I proceed answering the question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah.
LEAH RILEY: OK. thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please go ahead. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Yeah, we had over 1,700 responses to those open ended questions. So as you can
imagine, they ranged, they were all over in responses, but largely we tried to bucket them into themes
quite a bit about employee safety and security, both from represented and non-represented employees.
Lots of feedback about understanding how news and information is shared throughout the agency, and
suggestions to improve it. Quite a bit of feedback about ideas to improve management or complaints
about direct supervisors. Some of it helpful, some of it not.
And then that's really largely it. It was really very difficult to make sense of the 1,700 plus open ended
responses because they were all over the map, but we tried to do so and make sense of it. And the
entire-- Debra, I see your hand is raised-- the entire leadership team, as well as the General Manager and
CEO, read all of those responses and have taken them into consideration. So Debra, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, and thank you, Leah, for your presentation. I just wanted to
provide some clarity to a comment that the Vice Chair made relative to the lack of interaction perhaps
with front line employees.
Recognizing there are different classifications for front line employees, for instance with our maintenance
personnel. Before they start a shift, there often are tailgates, where there are briefing sessions and things
of the like before they're deployed to their work sites. So I just wanted to qualify that there are
opportunities for them to engage.
More specifically, as we talk about our operators, those that aren't making relief on the line come into the
divisions and they are interacting. I've actually been privy to be at some of those engagements. And for
instance, on the maintenance of way, on the commuter rail, basically partook in one of the tailgates. So I

just wanted to qualify, while it may seem as if there are not ample opportunities, there are some
engagement and [INAUDIBLE] intentional as we do various trainings and things alike that are necessary
from the vantage point of what we're trying to do with the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan.
There's a Joint Labor Management Safety Committee, so there's a myriad of different opportunities for
engagement, just for everyone's edification. So thank you very much for the opportunity to provide
additional detail relative to engagement opportunities amongst our colleagues. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Thank you, Ms. Sloan. I'm sorry, Ms. Johnson. Director Sloan,
does that answer your question?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, and I do appreciate our GM CEO's comments. That is interesting and I think
the Directors should be aware of those opportunities. And now we are. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Board Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much and thanks, Ms. Riley. This is super helpful, very interesting. I
agree with your comments on the 83% of people who say, my supervisor treats me with respect. I think
that's really great. I'm not sure that's been the case all along in the agency, so that's a nice change.
There's some in the listing of particular departments and the agency that I noted, and two of them that
went down kind of significantly were Civil Rights and Contracts & Procurement. Is that partially people not
exactly knowing what's going on with those, or what do you think that's attributable to?
LEAH RILEY: So Debra, I see your hand raised. Did you want to answer that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No please go ahead and provide some greater context as it relates to the
organization. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Sure. So anecdotally what I can share. We have done quite a bit of-- we've ramped up
hiring this year. So with Civil Rights, any time we hire an employee in the organization, represented or
non-represented, it is a requirement of the FTA that they go through an EE Overview for fairness and
compensation.
So we have ramped up hiring and we also have lost staffing in EEO. So EEO concurrences in hiring have
taken quite a bit longer than they had in the past, which has caused some frustration. That's anecdotally
the responses to the Civil Rights questions for the favorability is one of the internal focus groups. So we
have detailed results in the background on the survey of which departments rated Civil Rights the lowest.
So we're doing follow up work with focus groups with those departments to understand what their pain
points are and how we can improve satisfaction.
And with Contracting & Procurement, there have been quite a few changes to course correct the way that
we are doing business with the organization to ensure that we are adhering to FTA requirements, as well
as having to respond to several audits. Contracting & Procurement, thus, has placed additional
requirements on staff in terms of paperwork, reviews, et cetera. So it has slowed down some of the

processes in the short term, but it will improve it in the longer term. So again, anecdotally, that's what I
think is happening with Contracting & Procurement. But again, we're doing focus groups to understand
what's going on there.
And since I did say that things did get slowed down a little bit this year, I do want to say that it's going to
speed up next year. We are currently implementing OpenGov, which is an online format to build your
contracts, advertise your contracts, get all the paperwork processed. So it's going to be much more
streamlined and reduce time to process all of our contracting documents. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you, Leah, for that information, and just to provide additional context. So
when we look at our division of Civil Rights, Civil Rights is comprised of various offices that support
adherence to federal compliance, as Ms. Riley indicated. But I think what's more specific relative to the
low areas that showcase, i.e. Contracts & Procurement, there is quite naturally a nexus as it relates to
Civil Rights.
We basically have a Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program, in which we have to ensure there's a
level playing field when we leverage federal dollars, and then more so with our Small Business Office that
we leverage when we use local dollars. Recognizing that we have put it in place in light of our
commitment to ensuring that everybody has an opportunity to do business with RTD, a procurement
cannot go forward if you first have not had an assessment done by the Small Business Office. So this is a
new way of doing business holistically for individuals that were so steadfast in the way in which we've
done things for decades, so there is a nexus, as you can clearly see.
Then more specifically, as Ms. Riley indicated, recognizing Equal Employment Opportunity. It goes
beyond just compensation compliance. It's ensuring that basically we've assessed applicants in the
appropriate fashion, whereby we're looking at their years of experience. Not to mention in January of this
year was a new state law, Equal Pay for Equal Work, that was put into process. And keeping in mind that
while we may have added a couple of recruiters to the Human Resources Department, we didn't hold
steady with that with EEO.
So quite naturally, when you look at the organization holistically, one commonality is through the hiring
process. And I can tell you that I have spoken with individuals directly when I have engaged, and that's a
constant pain point. So as we prepare the budget process for 2024, and what you all will see, that there is
clear alignment relative to anything regarding EEO.
And what I've done intentionally, I've asked staff when you put forward a budget request, let's quite
naturally understand what the regulatory compliance issues are. Is there an impediment for you to do
your core business, and what are the interdependencies? Because oftentimes in this organization, we

would put forward requests and nobody would look at the interdependencies, so it's a new way in which
we're doing things holistically. So to Ms. Riley's point, I'm very optimistic that you'll see a shoring up of
various things, especially as we go forward with Contracts & Procurement quite naturally to have firsthand
trainings as it relates to what's happening.
And then more specifically with Civil Rights, there will be a presentation presented to the leadership team,
because I will say that I don't believe that everybody understands the requirements from a Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise. Do not know the difference between race conscious and race neutral goals, and
how basically we are able to use the North American Industry Classification System as relates to having
readily available vendors that can do the work that meets the requirements. So I give you that for context,
once again. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, that's very helpful. I have one more question, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please go ahead, Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The change in the Net Promoter Score from the way we did it last year to the way
we did it this year, if I understood you correctly, it was to align us with a more standard system throughout
the Transit industry. And then the change from 2022 from 38 to 4. I guess, just to be sure I understand,
does that have any consequences or considerations for us? Is that a new baseline? Is that what we've
set? I'm a little confused by that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. Ms. Riley, would you like to go ahead with that?
LEAH RILEY: Sure. So the way the industry measures the Net Promoter Score is on an 11 point scale.
Last year we didn't use that 11 point scale, so we didn't truly come up with the industry standard for a Net
Promoter Score last year. Last year was the first year we had our Net Promoter Score, so it truly is a 4,
which should become the new baseline for the strategic plan measuring purposes to align with industry
standard for how it's measured.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And does that mean anything for us as we're going through this process, that
change? Looks like Ms. Johnson's-DEBRA JOHNSON: No, was going to let Ms. Riley speak. I was going to let Ms. Riley answer the
question and add more context because I think I'm surmising what you're asking, Chair Guissinger, but I
want to be clear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer it differently if you want. I mean, I can ask it differently.
DEBRA JOHNSON: But what I was going to say, for all intents and purposes, because I don't want to
belabor the issue, but when you use Net Promoter Score, we're talking about how likely are you to
recommend a service or something of the like. When we're talking about employees, we're talking about
their satisfaction. So we're still using a Net Promoter Score as we go forward with customer and
community surveys because it's how likely are they to reference or recommend our services.

So when Ms. Riley's talking about the Composite Score, we were working with employees. It's not more
or less how often are you going to recommend somebody to work here. Well, that's important to us. That's
why we're doing both. We want to understand the overarching satisfaction of employees that are here.
Because basically, when you think about it holistically, those are our ambassadors going forward.
So that's why we have leaned in and had a discussion with the leadership team and also with employees
relative to having a Composite Score and a Net Promoter Score. So I just wanted to qualify that we're not
throwing the Net Promoter Score out the window, but recognizing this last year was the first opportunity
for us to create a baseline relative to what we're doing here at the organization with our most valuable
resource, which is people.
LEAH RILEY: And if I could just add-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yeah, Ms. Riley, please.
LEAH RILEY: Sorry. In my opinion, moving towards the Composite Index Score is what we should be
doing. When somebody is responding to the Employee Net Promoter Score question, they don't know
that it's an 11 point scale. They might not have any idea that if they answer a 7 or an 8, that their votes
not being counted.
How it works is not clear to the employees, and there's lots of reasons why an employee might not
recommend to someone to work at RTD that has nothing to do with how they perceive the agency. It
could be that the hours don't work for them or they live somewhere else. There's a lot of reasons
somebody wouldn't recommend it that have nothing to do with how they perceive the agency. So think
there's a bit of a differentiation between an Employee Net Promoter Score and nuances that could go into
how people answer versus a customer or community Net Promoter Score.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I tend to agree with that, that 7 or 8 for many people is still not a bad score,
so that's helpful from both. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. Thanks Ms. Johnson and Ms. Riley. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Ms. Riley, thank you so much for the explanation of the
differences between the two. I must confess, as I was reviewing the materials yesterday, it wasn't clear to
me as I was reviewing them, so your explanation certainly helped.
This is a rather granular question, so forgive me if it's a little-- The question about, "I am provided the
tools I need to grow my career." That seems to be a fairly general statement, and I was wondering if there
were any specifics given?
Because that was a fairly low score and I just was curious if there were some specific examples of the
tools. Because they could really vary widely from a mechanic to somebody at a desk with a computer.
Those are really very, very, very wide range of quote tools and how they're identified. Could you give me
some examples?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is up. Would you like to tackle that first?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would, thank you. When I came into the organization, you may recall nearly
three years ago, I walked into the budget process, and a decision was already made by this organization
to basically decimate the Learning and Development arm of Human Resources. So for a period of time,
we stopped investing in training for our employees.
Recognizing last year during the budget process we included monies for training and professional
development funds. So that is getting off the ground as we go forward. And then more specifically, when
we talk about the tools to grow one's career, people are doing a lot more with less because we don't have
ample positions that are filled. I'm speaking from a place in reference to reading the comments
holistically, talking about what was versus what is, there was a program that was put in place. It was, my
goodness, it was an online learning course that wasn't accredited.
So there's a myriad of different issues holistically, and we're being intentional as we go through this
process of giving people an opportunity, be they represented or non-represented. We are doing it
intentionally because we don't want to-- let me qualify this in such a way-- be wasteful with taxpayer
dollars. So if somebody is going to participate, they basically apply to be part of a program for training.
You have to work here for six months before you can travel because we want to make sure we're
returning on the investment.
Also, when I first got to the agency, we invested for somebody to participate in leadership APTA, and then
the individual left, and we had spent all this money, so there were no parameters in place. So we're being
intentional about how we do this because that's why it's important that one works for six months before
they're allowed to participate. So we can really ensure that we're providing them the initial skills that they
need and that they can leverage and have an understanding of the organization.
So with that as a backdrop, we have been participating in the Eno Multi-Agency Exchange Program. We
have leveraged supervisorial training, and things of the like, but these things have just gotten underway.
So I just wanted to provide that context that we've come into the organization and we're having to build up
because we didn't have things in place. I speak for that as relative to Ms. Riley, Ms. Polege because they
have come after me. And when I came in, we did not have our training and development in place.
So that's the context I wanted to provide from an organizational vantage point. And Ms. Riley, please feel
free to add on as you see fit. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Sure. So the only way that we can glean more details about that is in the open-ended
questions in which we did get some direct feedback about desire for more training access, to more
opportunities. But what we've also done is we have broken down, at a more granular level, the responses
by department, and by represented employee, non-represented employee, by tenure, and by location, so
that level of granularity data has been made available to Human Resources, so they can look at it from
different angles and understand how they might want to pivot their approach to training and development
moving forward.

PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Yeah, please, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I remember taking a tour of some of the shops, and a number of the represented
employees stating or claiming that they were responsible for buying their own tools. And I don't know. I
think this is anecdotal and I don't know if it's true or not, but I remember hearing some frustration from a
couple of employees that RTD didn't provide the necessary tools for them to do their job.
So that when I say granular, I really appreciate Ms. Johnson's response on the training and development
and I think that's wonderful from a holistic perspective. But I just was wondering if there were any
comments about those types of tools that are available for some of our employees. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is up. Do you have a
response to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I do. And for context, it is quite common when you're in a representative environment
that oftentimes, as it relates to a class A mechanic, a B, a C, as you progress that there are some
elements that can be negotiated in a collective bargaining agreement. And want to be careful how I
answer this question. I will use I statements.
It's my experience working at a myriad of different agencies where there was some tool allowances. Quite
naturally, an organization, just like a hairstylist, you're going to use your own products. You're going to
use your own blow dryer, your own flat iron, your own curling iron, and so there's nothing that's
prescribed. But generally speaking, there's allowances that are afforded.
Same thing as it relates to other type of equipment where there may be a boot allowance if you're working
and you need steel toed boots. Or you're working in an environment with high voltage. That we provide
specifications, and that's something that could be bargained as we go forward. So recognizing that there's
some elements. I want to be careful, as we look at going forward with a successor collective bargaining
agreement, that I am not speaking outside of the bargaining table.
But basically, there are opportunities as we look to invest. And that's a part of our apprenticeship program
that we did include in the CBA going forward because some of these things that we would do are trying to
ensure that we're investing in an employee and bringing them into the organization where they have the
appropriate resources and tools at the ready. So I hope that addressed your question, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: It did. Thank you very much. And as I said, when I heard this, I know it was anecdotal
and completely out of context, but I was just wondering if there had been any comments about that from
our employees. But that answered my question. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin, thank you Ms. Johnson. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, sorry. Forgive me for not having my camera on, but there's often audio
issues if I do that. So I just want to know from Ms. Riley, are we confident in the conversion for the NPS

score from what scale they used last year to the 11 point scale this year? Considering that it is a 5 point
negative deduction on the score overall, we're satisfied that the conversion was done properly and that
there's no mistake in these?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Riley, please go ahead.
LEAH RILEY: Yes, Director Guzman. Yes, very confident. You can Google it. There's an equation to
convert scales. You can just Google it and see the math yourself. We did that internally, but we also
turned our work over to RubinBrown. our internal auditors. They did the conversion themselves and
validated our work. So not only did we do it in-house through market research, but also had our internal
auditors do the same and validate the results, so have confidence in them.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I can as well. That was intentional when we discussed this. I specifically
worked with the CFO and wanted to have RubinBrown just to assuage any type of trepidation or concerns
relative to this body questioning the validity of said numbers. That's why we had a certified auditing firm
look at those numbers and we have at attestation from that entity relative to the numbers.
So want to say before you that there's no monkey business here. That those numbers have been verified
by our auditors that look at our same financial numbers. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: May I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, [INAUDIBLE].
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So thank you for that. I really appreciate it. My concern was more that it's a slide
back from last year with more responses. So I just want to make sure that we're confident that those
numbers are accurate going forward. That way we can assess the scores that we need to for
performance review purposes and all of that. So thank you for the confidence. That's all I was concerned
about.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. Thank you, Ms. Riley and Ms. Johnson. Director Sloan
please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I, too, would like to make comments on the Net Promoter Score and
then ask a question about how that relates to the Performance Committee's duties.
It's my recollection that the Board established the Net Promoter Scores as a metric only after a sales pitch
by the mediator at the time. So it wasn't really that the Board was invested in Net Promoter Scores. It was
really encouraged by TransPro, and it is now part of our strategic plan, and it's not 2026 yet.
So while philosophically I'm really accepting of the more helpful nature of a Composite Index Score, I
understand that we are committed to the Net Promoter Score as long as the strategic plan is in place.
And the strategic plan sets a success outcome for the agency. Here's my question. How does that relate
to the performance evaluation of the GM CEO? Thanks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, sure. Thank you, Director Sloan. It's a great, important question. I have some
perspectives I can share on it, but Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is up, so please go ahead, if you'd like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity to offer comments. I just want to qualify
and say, in my professional experience, I have used Net Promoter Scores at different agencies. So while
the perception could have been perceived as a sales pitch, this is something I wholeheartedly supported
so we can compare ourselves with other transit agencies.
Oftentimes, there's references made to peer agencies when we talk about the level of service and which
one is providing contingent upon the nature of service delivery and things of the like. So when Ms. Leah
Riley presented her information before us, we do state, as it relates to community value and customer
surveys, and I made reference to that as well, that we are still using a Net Promoter Score. Because we
are interested in things threefold relative to one, promoting working here at the organization, but more
specifically, we want to know how satisfied they are overarching with their role here collectively.
So as we talk about a NPS, it is something that is used mainstream in the service industry. Quite
naturally, if any of you fly, any of you use hotel services, quite naturally, there's always a response, "How
likely are you to recommend these services?" And this is still valid as we look at the NPS and how it came
through the Harvard School of Business. So I just wanted to qualify that going forward. I will yield the floor
to the Chair because I am committed to utilizing what we have established, quite naturally, as we look at
our strat plan.
Coming into this organization where we had no elements to evaluate the General Manager and the CEO,
the position in which I hold, we wanted to ensure that we did have objective criteria as well as subjective
criteria. So in relationship to that, there are opportunities, as we discussed what they may be for 2024, but
recognizing that I am a consummate professional.
This is what I will be evaluated on and recognizing that I lead the organization. And as we look at our
review process or performance for the organization as a whole, I have the responsibility of leading the
organization and individuals within the organization have SMART goals being specific, measurable,
attainable, realistic, and time bound that spawned from the Strategic Plan.
And quite naturally, there's three initiatives of which we're adhering to, being Back to Basics, People
Power, and A Welcoming Transit Environment. So I just wanted to share that for everybody that I am not
trying to change the rules of engagement in the midst of playing the game. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Ms. Johnson. So this may actually dovetail into a question and some
comments I have about NPS. But first, Director Sloan, directly to your question about how this impacts
things from a performance standpoint, by the numbers, this would represent not achieving the goals, the
objective weighted success outcome criteria we set out for and established and as adopted last year by
first, the Performance Committee, and then the Board at large.
So the Employee Ownership Score and the Net Promoter Score being one of the four inputs to the
Weighted Success Outcomes. This would be a miss on that Weighted Success Outcome. So Ms.

Johnson, I appreciate your comments about not changing the rules of engagement. I think what you're
alluding to is the way you're managing your team right now is with SMART goals that are a little bit more
short term in nature.
I think, Director Sloan, if I'm reading in the subtext of your question, is that this is a difficult metric to be
using on an annual performance basis, which I do think it's within the purview and responsibility of this
committee to recommend changes on as we approach next year and going forward, which certainly I'm
supportive of. But just to specifically answer the question, this would represent a miss on this one of four
weighted success outcomes, as adopted by the Board last year.
So Director Catlin, I'll open it back up to you. I'm sorry, Director Sloan, I'll open back up to you to see if
you have any further comments or questions on that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, I don't. Between your answers and Ms. Johnson's answers, I'm satisfied with it. I
believe we might want to look, going forward, at changing, as I believe Ms. Riley was recommending, to
the Composite Index Score for next year and beyond. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Sloan. So this dovetails into one of my thoughts and
comments, and I do have a question. Actually, I have two questions about the surveys.
I personally really like Net Promoter Score, but to me, in the private sector, we think of it as a midterm. It's
a leading indicator of what long term revenue and business goals might look like, which I think is very
obviously different for us here. But it's hard to measure on a constant short term basis how you're doing.
You form your hypotheses around where your problems are, and what's creating detractors, or what's
creating people to be passive.
And the passives are really important, although it seems like their vote doesn't count. Without realizing it,
when we give a 70% or 80%, we're thinking we're being good, but there's a lot of really good data that
suggests that we will not then go out and take our own time to promote. We wouldn't put the branding on
something we own or something of the like.
So I think what I've always struggled with is to me, from an agency standpoint, this feels longer term or
certainly at least midterm. Several years out being able to influence this. And then it's up to this Board
and our General Manager to determine what in the near term is going to influence things. So I do actually,
I have a question related to this, because it's noting that our Net Promoter Score has moved down,
although really just let's say what it is. We're on the low end of things right now. And in an environment
where we have to compete in the workforce, it's pretty important for us to see if we can get our own team
to recommend.
I think the Composite Score gives us a great view of how satisfied folks are, and it talks a lot about
retention. But it also, I think, could help guide us to form hypotheses about how we could get passive or
detractors to become promoters.

So one of the things I was just wondering about is, do we have the data from these surveys, when we've
asked questions about how likely are you to recommend and we have Composite Score data, are we able
to link the two together to be able to say, well, OK, looking at the dissatisfaction or the Strongly Disagree
or Disagree statements for example, are we able to look at those by detractors, by passive, by promoters.
So that, let's say, we wanted to take a targeted approach at folks who are relatively satisfied, but are
currently passive and not necessarily promoters. If we want to move them into promoters, what are some
of the things we could target? Do we have those kind of linkages in our data to look at that Net Promoter
Score to where we are from a composite and maybe a shorter term view?
LEAH RILEY: Well, part of your question I think is best answered by our market research people in terms
of validity of how you link those two measures. What I can say is we do have the data in the survey. The
level of granularity just goes to department, location, tenure, represented or non-represented status, and
supervisory versus non-supervisory status. So we can look at the data to understand by which
department, perhaps even by location, where we have more dissatisfaction than elsewhere.
So that data does exist. We don't go into any more granularity because we want to commit to our
employees that there's anonymity so they feel comfortable answering the questions positively. So we do
have, in a short to mid-term work plan, the next 12 to 18 months, we are focusing on People Power, along
with Back to Basics, and A Welcoming Transit Environment. And in the People Power, we're looking at
employee retention is one of the tactics in there. So as I mentioned, the Employee Ownership Task Force
will be engaged in working on that, and also HR has the data at the level that I described in thinking about
employee retention.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for commenting on that. And Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is up. Do you
have a comment on that as well?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I do. And Ms. Riley did touch upon what I was going to say, and I just want to
elaborate. Just for you all's edification, when you look at Bus Operations, you have to understand that
we're talking about a large swath of employees. Because within Bus Operation, not only do you have
administrative personnel, you have fleet maintenance, you have transportation, and you have all of these
other different elements that feed up, so there's all these different business functions.
So when we talk about the differences, and to the point that Ms. Riley referenced, the anonymity piece of
it, when we went out with this, we wanted to ensure that people could have a place where they could
experience psychological safety. Because what I have garnered from engaging, it's fear of retaliation. If I
tell you, I think this place sucks, what are you going to do to me going forward?
So we have to get to a place whereby we create that level of trust, and that's why that one response
where the respect for the supervisor, we've been building upon that, and that's intentional. And as we talk
about these three initiatives, let's be clear that Charlene Polege is leading the initiative as it relates to
People Power. Chief Fitzgerald is leading the initiative when we talk about the transit environment being
welcoming, and we have Doug MacLeod, who is leading the initiative of Back to Basics because we're
talking about state of good repair.

So as we look at all of these things holistically, it will give us an opportunity. And as we go into each and
every one relative to their SMART goals, it's what we're doing to work forward to create a more cohesive
transportation environment. And so where we talk about the nexus with the data, I appreciate the
question, Chair Davidson, because you and I talk about data lot. It's going to take us some time to get to
that place where there's a clear cut nexus because we didn't have that before.
So I just wanted to qualify that when we're talking about our organization, Bus Operations alone, there
could be 1,500 employees just there as we try to figure out who's on first. Because often what we've
discovered, somebody didn't know how to identify themselves in the respective department because
people use the term department interchangeably whereby they're in a work function. But Bus Operations I
may think to myself, no, I'm a fleet mechanic. I'm not in Bus Operations. And so it's creating that nexus.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Ms. Johnson, for the answer and Ms. Riley. Yeah, I think, like you said,
we've talked about data lot. The beauty of this is we can make some data-driven decisions. And the
reason for my question is just thinking about, OK, well, let's say we wanted to target Bus Operations. Let's
just use that as an example of where there's promoters sort of on a micro scale looking at that division.
Whether we wanted to look at different elements of satisfaction and dissatisfaction and what we might be
able to move.
So I appreciate the comments on that, and that actually leads to another question, which may be
rhetorical because it may be something that, Ms. Johnson, we want to address as we start looking at your
goals for next year.
But a probing question for the committee, and I think to, Director Sloan, your point around what do we
actually use from a performance standpoint is I would be curious, Ms. Johnson, how you're looking at this
data from the Net Promoter Score standpoint of seeing where we sit, and a little bit of a step back, looking
at the data of where we have on the Composite Score great progress on where employees Agree or
Strongly Disagree, but where we have those opportunities for improvement, and how you're partnering
with Ms. Polege and her team to frame up those SMART goals, and what a SMART goal might look like
around People Power reacting to this data for you.
I think that's the type of question that, if you're answering, look, this is what I think I need to do based on
this data, we can say long term that should show up as improved composite. That should show up as
improved Net Promoter Score. But what do we all believe in 2024 is going to move the needle a little bit in
that direction?
So I wonder if, Ms. Johnson, you have any thoughts you're willing to share since you mentioned the
SMART goals and teams right now. If it's premature, if you'd rather wait until we have the goal discussion
and you submit some proposals to us in November, that's fine as well. But just some things for us to be
thinking about. So Ms. Johnson, anything you want to react to in that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, a couple of things. I'm quite pleased with the Employee Survey results because
there's a couple of things that have to be taken into consideration. So when we got our baseline last year,

we were crawling out of COVID. There's people that are coming back into the workplace. I'd be remiss not
to say to you all that there are some individuals within the organization that feel as if they don't have to
physically come into the office.
There's a difference of opinion as it relates to us performing or providing a public service because that's
challenging to do from home, recognizing the different job classifications that we have readily available.
We had an uptick in reference to our numbers as it relates to full time employees, and that yielded a
greater number of responses.
And so we're not comparing apples to apples. It's more or less like apples to fish. But what we were able
to get, reading through those open ended questions, I see that there is a willingness for people to lean in
and engage wholeheartedly. Just last week had an employee forum, and I thought it was very, very good
relative to people standing in their truth and being able to voice their concerns, comments, or overarching
support without fear of retaliation.
So I think all of those things are positive. So getting back to the question that you posed, relative to where
we are holistically, I believe that we will have a better opportunity to gauge what we endeavor to do.
Because as it relates to the hiring process, keeping in mind that we've been intentional with our budget
development, asking the question. And let me qualify, we still have a lot more work to do, so this has not
been the panacea that cures all ailments.
But we've been trying to be more intentional around the budget development process because here at
this organization it was not done in a transparent fashion. And that's no disregard for Mr. MacLeod's
efforts. I'm talking about culturally speaking that we did not bring people into a room. Somebody's pitching
what they want in a vacuum, not speaking in a place where we can see the interdependencies. Because
if I need additional vehicles in Safety, but I did not talk with Fred Worthen, who has the responsibility
overseeing fleet mechanics, how do we know that we can basically procure an additional vehicle and that
can be maintained? Where will that be?
So all of these different things are intentional as we build upon things in the future. Because let's be clear,
one individual's goals are going to feed up into their division, to their department, to the agency. And it is
more or less like a flow chart that comes full circle.
So yes, I'm going to be intentional when I set my goals because they are going to be predicated upon
Back to Basics, People Power, and A Welcoming Transit Environment. Because how could they not if
everybody else in the organization has those, and those three are something that we collectively agreed
upon as management and leadership teams that feed back into Community Value, Customer Excellence
and Employee Ownership, and Financial Success.
So I would be remiss and we would collectively be remiss if I had goals outside of that, because then how
could I ensure that comes to fruition if I had no skin in the game. So I hope that answers your question in
a broad brush fashion.

ERIK DAVIDSON: It does, yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate it, and I think we'll look forward to
getting into the specifics of those goals then. And I think how they flow is really important. and I think for
this committee here, being willing to move outside of the Net Promoter Score metrics that we've taken on
each year and perhaps considering those-- I'm not saying we have to-- but considering those as long term
goals and aligning with those SMART goals that the entire team will have that will flow up and down,
sideways, left and right, I think would be a good thing for this committee to do before the end of this year.
Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I wanted to mention two things. Ms. Riley, thank you for doing this work
and making sure that everything got taken care of for us. It's great to hear the presentation. I'm a little
upset with the number, but I am not surprised, I have to say.
Working at Starbucks, we are facing the same issues in terms of doing our responses because we have
people that are required to be in the store to do that work. And so having people that are physically
present to do a job is causing a lot of angst and consternation. Because why? You can do your job from
home. We're zooming into this meeting, right? We have that ability. But this is an administrative part of an
agency, not the physical part of it.
So I'm concerned about how we are going to turn that corner. And I don't know how that may or may not
impact the results of this particular survey, but I know it has a great impact amongst myself and my
partners at my Starbucks cafe when we have to show up to work and it's just really hard to do that
sometimes. And we see our managers not in the stores and our managers not showing up, and so it is
apples to fish, as sometimes we want to say, but it's really the same thing. It's just two different
workforces doing two different things.
But the industry, at its essence, is the same-- a service to humans. And so I have a concern about that.
And I only bring that forward, particularly for Ms. Johnson, because I think that's something that has to be
tackled, but I don't think anybody has a panacea or a silver bullet to deal with it. But I know that that is top
of mind for a lot of younger workers who we would be trying to engage with and potentially new
employees.
And so when we're talking about not promoting RTD being a great work environment, and we're asking
that question, what is it and trying to do it, there's not-- I might challenge Chair Davidson a little bit-necessarily a surgical way to move the needle. It might be a more cultural shift that needs to happen, and
I'm not sure how to make that happen, other than having employees that are really excited.
And so there's an old idea that I have and learned a long time ago-- 10% of your employees are always
going to be your cheerleaders, 10% of your employees are always going to be your naysayers, and the
80% in the middle are going to go with the loudest group. They're more likely to move one way or the
other, depending on who's louder.
And so being one of the cheerleaders at my place of employment, I try to be loud all the time. And when I
feel negative, I really have to engage with the management and the supervisor. So that Supervisor Score

particularly highlighted for me something. That trust being built is creating that team of people who are
willing to be cheerleaders. I think we need to stay focused on that trend.
But also, when you can engage the naysayers and you can engage the people who are in disagreement
with the idea that it's a great place to work, we need to figure out why, and we have to lean in and dive in
there. And I know that's hard work to do because sometimes you're hearing stuff you just don't want to
hear, and sometimes there's no way to change it, but looking at this data, I'm not sure how that's
happening or how that could happen.
And I only bring that forward because I really do want to see success with this. So it's more of a rhetorical
question. I don't need an answer on it right now. But something to think about for future conversation is
how are we going to-- I don't have a better word for it right now-- holistically move that needle the correct
direction, the direction we want it to go. But I do think that some of the things that have been said here,
short term, mid-term ability to do those things really takes a lot of great, intentional work.
But its not just one person. As you've said, Ms. Johnson, you've got three different C-suite professionals
working on goals that are tied into yours, but that goes downhill. And so I'm trying to keep grounded in the
boots on the floor, and the operators, and the mechanics that are doing this job every day and have to
show up to make this agency run. How do we get from the C-suite down to that part of the agency and
make sure that that work is being completed properly. And there's no easy answer. I'm simply putting it
forward for all of us to consider.
When we're talking about making goals and when we're talking about making quick moves, it might look
good for a quarter, but it may not last for a full year. And what happens in a year may not look great in two
years. And so we need to figure out a sustainable path forward, and I hope that everybody's working in
that same vein. Sorry, I know it's a little bit verbose, but that's my thought right now. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. And I appreciate the comments and understand where
you're going with it, and appreciate the challenge. And I am an engineer, so you'll find I always gravitate
to numbers with the blind spot of zooming out, but data can tell you where to look. But yeah, thank you for
the comments, and I do see that Ms. Johnson's hand is up. So Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And I'm not going to attempt to answer the question, but I just
wanted to thank Director Guzman for his comments because it takes all hands on deck. Because as I
share with individuals all the time, without the employees that comprise this agency and without our
customers, there's no need for me, there's no need for any of us.
And so with that as a backdrop, recognizing that there are individuals, to the point that he raised, that are
very vocal and that are cheerleaders. I had the opportunity to engage with the individual that started
working here and came from BNSF, who said that they love working here and was commenting on some
of the questions I got during my Employee Forum. There are some individuals that know what they know
as it relates to this organization and they haven't been able to experience anything else.

And so then there's others that come into this organization saying, oh my God, you guys are so generous
with the opportunity to telework and do all these other things. So it's all about perspective and it's not
going to be a cookie cutter approach. And as we look at this holistically, it's engaging with employees to
discern what might be optimal. So when we talk about our remote work policy, while we have certain
requirements, it doesn't mean that that's the end all be all because there could be an exemption.
And it's up to that leader of that department to say, hey, there is a need. We're trying to attract this talent
where there could be an exemption. So as we hone in and lean into the moment, we have to understand
what those pain points are. It gets back to that design thinking because we may have to pilot something
after we ideate it around what could possibly be a solution, and go back to that group, and discern, is this
the appropriate adjustment at this point in time? Will that be the same for continual period? We don't
know.
But I just wanted to say, Director Guzman, I hear you loudly and clearly, and there are various people,
and Ms. Riley indicated that we do have an Employee Ownership Task Force that basically is coming
from different facets of the organization where they can talk about what may best address their needs,
and their work environment, and leverage that going forward. So it's not somebody like me sitting in my
office dictating or issuing an edict. We want to understand, from those people's perspective relative to
what might make their work environment optimal, and that gets back to the psychological safety that's
paramount. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you to everybody for the conversation on
this. Ms. Riley, thank you for the presentation. It is really helpful to have a look at all this type of data.
Appreciate it.
I know this Performance Committee is gathered here for assessing the performance of the General
Manager and CEO this year, as well as the agency. But I think there's a bigger picture here and a bigger
story that is really helpful to get this look at things, especially with People Power continuing to be one of
our major problems and challenges that we're addressing. So thank you for the presentation.
I'm going to close out this discussion item. Again, thanks for all those who participated. We're going to
move into the next discussion item, which is respect to the General Manager and CEO pay range.
I think we can keep this relatively simple and straightforward. We've talked about the Gallagher Report a
number of times. Earlier this year, we revisited the General Manager and CEO's employment contract
with the agency, as well as the compensation analysis, which was performed by Gallagher. But what I did
want to do, as I mentioned last time, with the passage of the compensation philosophy, one of the key
notes-- and apologies, I'm just going forward in my notes here-- in the compensation analysis from
Gallagher one of the proposed next steps was to align their findings with our compensation philosophy.
As well pointed out to us, we didn't have a compensation philosophy that was recent. We have now
passed that. So we need to go back and take a look at the Gallagher Report. For those that will recall, in
the General Manager and CEO's contract we did contractually agree to do this compensation analysis.

Folks will remember that we then ended up tying a compensation increase that would come from this
analysis to last year's performance, for which we did 0 increase.
There's a number of things the committee is going to have to look at adjusting. What I would like to
mention is one of them is passing a base salary range, as recommended by Gallagher. So when
Gallagher performed this analysis for us, they ultimately arrived at two different recommended base
salary ranges for the position of General Manager and CEO at RTD.
Recommendation one was made to be consistent with non-represented employee pay structures within
the agency. This was done based on a market survey. It set a minimum salary of $300,000 for the
position, a midpoint of $385,000, and a maximum of 465%, representing a range spread of 55%. All of
this is in your packet, by the way. The conclusion and recommendations that I'm referring to are on
packet page 106.
The second recommendation was the full market range, as was assessed for the full market. And again,
the Gallagher Report, they had several different approaches-- a custom approach, a full market approach.
The range that was recommended had a lower minimum and a higher maximum, a rider range, the same
midpoint. It was $280,000 at the minimum level, a midpoint of $385,000, and a maximum of $490,000,
with the spread being 75%.
The recommendation by Gallagher was that this Board would adopt one of those ranges. On a go forward
basis, we need to be transparent about the pay range for the position. And then, separate from this, to
ensure that the current General Manager and CEO's pay structure and base salary aligns with the
compensation philosophy of the agency.
Separate from the pay scale and range itself was looking at what the percentile and the current pay is
within. The General Manager's pay was found to be at the 47th percentile of the full market analysis.
So the Performance Committee has a couple of things to determine with respect to this. I'm committed to
work in partnership with our Chief People Officer, Ms. Polege, now that we do have a compensation
philosophy to structure some ideas about how we might address some potential misalignment we have
around the current pay structure and our compensation philosophy.
But I would propose that at the next meeting we adopt one of these two pay ranges. I do want to point out
that these pay ranges, as well as the percentile analysis of where the current General Manager and CEO
salary is, was done a year ago. So we are a year out of date on those numbers.
[AUDIO OUT]

JACK KROLL: I can't hear you. We lost you.
[AUDIO OUT]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Hi, everybody. My apologies. Can you hear me OK?
JACK KROLL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: My audio was booted for some reason by Zoom there. Apologies. So I was just saying
that this was done a year ago. Our Consumer Price Index or other metrics need to be used to age this up.
There are ways of doing that, that again, I can engage with Ms. Polege to ensure that we follow the right
methodology for that.
But I want to open up for discussion here. Ultimately my proposal would be that at our next meeting we
do adopt the full market range with the lower minimum, the higher maximum, the same midpoint. This
doesn't really impact where we put the percentile of the General Manager so much as it does set the pay
range. This would put us in alignment with regulations when we next open up the position for CEO and
General Manager. It also provides transparency to our current CEO and General Manager.
And when it comes to adjusting our performance evaluation process, I think this is really critical that the
CEO and General Manager in the current position, Debra Johnson in this case, sees where the maximum
salary range is, and then we can set performance metrics around annualized goals to work her way
towards a higher point for which she knows the maximum in the position.
So I think we should adopt that range. My recommendation would be full market, based on reading the
Gallagher report several times. But I want to get the feedback from committee members here before we
would go to a vote at our next committee. So with that, apologies for taking up some time and dropping
on audio, Director Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, I appreciate your teeing this up. But I was wondering if we were going to also
discuss some of the pay practices and exec perks that they talked about, where we're lagging in the
market in terms of some of those things. And I know GM CEO Johnson referred to those early on. Such
things as the vehicle allowance, club membership, severance pay, PTO, all of those items as a total
compensation package. Are we going to be talking about that as well?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think we have to. I didn't have that on today's discussion item. I think, as we move
forward, and this is inevitably going to continue into next year for [INAUDIBLE] Performance Committee,
we have to tackle that because that's a part of whole compensation. It was highlighted by Gallagher, and
thank you for bringing that up, Director Catlin.
We have to tackle how we tie annual goals to annual performance. I think we have to look at what the
long term, if we have any type of long term incentive plan that this Board would want to look at. I think
there's a lot of things we need to address. That certainly is one of them, Director Catlin, and thank you for
bringing that up since I think that's as important as anything.

What I wanted to address today was the first move of adopting the base salary range by Gallagher to get
ourselves into alignment with the Gallagher salary range, get ourselves in alignment with the
compensation philosophy, and then have a first step at looking at, do we need to make an adjustment on
the current CEO and General Manager's current base salary with respect to what Gallagher found?
So I view that as kind of the first step we need to take, but not the only step, and not the last step. And
one of the next steps certainly would be looking at the entire compensation package outside of the base
salary range. So Director Catlin, thoughts, feedback on the base salary range piece as well as just I'll
hand it back over to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and I do agree that we can't eat the whole elephant right now. We have to
carve off one piece at a time, and your focus, I believe, is right on track. That we need to look at that first.
But I just didn't want to lose sight of the total compensation package. That's all I have. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Appreciate it and I think that's duly noted. Director
Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So I'm not for or against either one of these. I'm glad we're having this
discussion, but would you please speak to why you think recommendation two is the better
recommendation? Help me understand that thought process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. Great question. So actually, in a moment, if she's
able to, I know Ms. Polege is dialed in by phone, and I'm going to open up to her in a moment.
In reading the report, Director Guzman, I personally believe that the full market analysis that was done by
Gallagher, which encompassed public and related private sectors and looked very broadly at CEO and
General Manager compensation, I believe that us selecting a range that aligns with that full market
analysis is the most likely for us to be competing on.
So the first recommendation, recommendation one, which was ensuring alignment internally to nonrepresented employees, that's kind of us talking to ourselves. And in a competitive environment, we're
looking at the entire market for who would fit in the CEO and General Manager seat.
So the full market analysis, personally, in the approach that Gallagher took in the report, as well as just
looking at the competitive environment we're in, makes more sense. I also always liked the idea of having
a little bit more range on it, having that lower minimum, that higher maximum based on how we may
change the priorities around the position itself.
What I was thinking about handing off to Ms. Polege-- and thank you, I know you're remote here-- was I
did have the opportunity to ask her a question around concerns that if we don't go with the
recommendation that aligns internally, whether we have any concerns around internal pay. And Ms.
Polege had a great answer around that, that I'm wondering if you might be willing to share with the
committee, Ms. Polege.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure, thanks, Chair Davidson. So Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. First
thing I would say is, to your question, Director Guzman, Director Davidson's response was spot on about
it is a more external facing range and takes in and frankly will be more competitive out in the market,
including in transit agencies, as we've seen newly negotiated salaries increasing for GM and CEOs in the
transit sector.
With respect to the specific comment or question that you asked Chair Davidson, compensation, this is
just for the GM and CEO, and there was some concern potentially that there would need to be an
adjustment if we moved either recommendation frankly, whether it was recommendation one or two that
the Board chose to adopt, that that would then result in a significant increase to the next level within the
agency.
And that is not, in fact, the case for two reasons. The main being that even the 20% that was referenced,
and I think Chair Davidson that's what you're speaking to here, or were hoping I would speak to, that was
just to make sure that's your standard compression. So you don't want to have your next level of reports
should have a minimum 20% spread between a direct report and their supervisor.
But also we would need all those positions. So using my position as an example, I report into the GM and
CEO. My position needs to still be market-based and it needs to be competitive with the market. So
there's a couple of restraints in there. And then thirdly, there's a fiscal restraint.
So I know that, in particular for the GM and CEO, the compensation philosophy references fiscal, the
fiscal ability for the agency. And the same holds for all the staff to which GM Johnson has purview, and
oversight, and setting those salaries. It also she has the onus to ensure that she is monitoring fiscal
responsibility as well. So I hope that's the key points that you were looking for. If I've missed anything, let
me know.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege. That's exactly what I was looking for. Director Guzman, any
further questions or comments on that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just one comment, which is to say-- and I'm not playing games. I know where I
stand on it and I know which one I want. But there may be some other people that have concerns about
using the recommendation number two on here, and we need to be able to speak to that. So thank you
for those answers. That's why I asked. I'm sure it will be challenged, rightfully so, and we just need to be
able to edify our response no matter which direction we go. So thank you for that. I appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Guzman. That a good point. And certainly when we bring
this back as a recommended action, both to the committee and to the Board, good thoughts in terms of
rationale that we should include in the discussion. Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. A quick question. So whichever range we go with, full market or the
survey, are these the numbers that we would then use at some point if we're looking for a new CEO to
meet Colorado law? For instance, full market range. Would we be advertising, it's $280,000 to $385,000,
to $490,000 or something along those lines?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair Guissinger. It would. So this would be used as the basis for
posting a new position. I would also say it would weigh in very heavily if we were to pursue any type of
contract extension with our current General Manager and CEO. But yes, this would represent that
published range.
And the range will move up because we'll have to look at the aging of the last year, which is something
that, as I said, I'm committed to doing between now and the 16th in partnership with our subject matter
expert on this, our Chief People Officer Polege. So recognizing the numbers will change and move
forward or up a bit, yes, this would form the basis of that published range. And Ms. Polege, is there
anything you'd like to add to that more specifically?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, I would just add that yes to the range. And also you do have the ability, and
we, in fact, are doing this now with our non-represented postings, you can also include an anticipated
hiring range. So there's the range for the position, the low and the top end, and then you can also identify
your anticipated hiring range. And that also provides and sends expectations out to the market.
Here's our range. If you're just interested because you want to come in and you're expecting you're going
to get at the top of the range, you can actually communicate that your anticipated hiring range is not that.
So you do have the ability to manage expectations and more specifically target potential talent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's super helpful, Ms. Polege, because I think that would be important to do.
And I assume what that would look like with either of these ranges is the $385,000 and some limited
range around that, since we've said we want to be at 50% of the market. But I tend to agree, after going
back through Gallagher, that we would go with the full market range. And again, I like having that other
option that you're talking about, so I would tend to support that. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Chair Guissinger, and thanks, Ms. Polege. And specifically to Ms.
Polege's point, there's a great piece in the compensation philosophy we do talk about. Aligning with the
50th percentile. We talk about transparency. We talk about pay for performance, which again, we need to
create what the range is that we're building performance.
What will that mean if we have that top end and we have that 50th percentile. We can create the incentive
plan in the middle there. But along the lines of what we actually hire for and also what we do year to year,
Chair Guissinger, as you and I talked about, there is that bullet point about recognize and respect RTD's
fiscal reality, which is always what we'll be weighing all of this against. So yeah, thank you for the
comments and the answers on that.
I know we're a little over time. Any further questions or comments regarding the Gallagher Report, the
base salary range adoption that we could move forward on October 16th?
Great. Well, I'll just emphasize, once again, that thank you, Director Catlin for bringing up the other
aspects of compensation. I think those other aspects along with performance must be addressed by the
Performance Committee. We set the range that's going to guide-- I think in setting the philosophy allowed
us to now move to setting the base salary range. Setting that base salary range is going to allow us to

look at where that 50th percentile is, where performance is, and how to build a total comp plan that works
and honors that statement of pay for performance that we have in the compensation philosophy.
So please reach out to myself or the Board Office with any questions between now and then. And I will
work in partnership with Chief People Officer Polege to prepare the item for us on October 16th with the
adjusted numbers given the year change. With that, we'll close that discussion item.
Briefly open up for other matters. I just have a brief point to make on the performance appraisal timeline.
Really just want to emphasize we've got two very important meetings coming up. We have October 16th,
where we'll get a look at the community value and the Customer Survey results, like we looked at the
employee results today. And we will also then address the base salary range to make a recommendation
to bring forward to the full Board of Directors.
And then, very importantly, we have the in-person performance evaluation of the CEO and General
Manager in November on 13th that I just want to make sure to emphasize that that then will be coming
up. Between the 16th and the 13th is where a lot of work will happen for the General Manager's self
evaluation, the Board Office providing evaluation forms to this committee and to the Board to complete in
preparation for our work in that in-person only session with the General Manager and CEO.
So those are some of those immediate next steps. When we went through the timeline last time, I know
we opened up for where Directors want to be able to weigh in or if there's any concerns. I'll just reiterate,
please feel free to reach out to myself or the Board Office with any questions, or concerns, or ideas on
that. And with that, Committee Vice Chair Sloan, I see your hand is up, so please go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just quickly, when can we anticipate getting the cost of living adjustment number?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great question. I don't have an answer for that myself. Is there anyone who might
have an answer as to when we would expect the cost of living adjustment number, or the COLA
adjustment. Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so basically those come out on a quarterly basis. And recognizing that we
would have to use the September 30 numbers. So those should be forthcoming. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you for the question, Director Sloan. Thank you for the note on that, Ms.
Johnson, that we'd use September 30th. Any questions, comments just on timeline here? Great. Any
other matters?
All right. Well hearing none, we will adjourn. I say, before we adjourn, just let me clarify we'll be meeting
once again on October 16th for the Performance Committee. Thank you to everybody for the participation
today. I look forward to your participation again on the 16th.
I know we're meeting a lot, but we're making some progress here. I think it's important that we're working
with this compensation analysis. I'd be remiss if I didn't note that it's been a year since we've had those
results. And I thank the General Manager for her patience and I thank the committee for your patience as

we've worked through a process here. I thank Ms. Polege for highlighting the need to move forward with
that compensation philosophy.
And Ms. Snyder, thank you for entertaining all of my questions about this contract. We have quite the
many moving pieces around performance and pay in this contract, and thank you for preparing the
presentation that's in the Board packet. I would encourage Directors, once again, to take a look at the
contract and those notes. And please reach out to me with any questions because I've been persistently
asking Ms. Snyder for further clarification around all these different moving parts.
So thank you to everybody for the participation. October 16th, I'll see you there. We will adjourn this
meeting as of 10:08 AM Mountain Daylight Time. Take care, everybody.

