Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 1 of 18

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 9, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held August 7,
2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, L. Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, Kevin
Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Brian
Iacono, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch,
Susan Wood, Brian Middleton, Jane Donovan, Frank Buczkowski,
Michelle Brier, Ron Enserro, Gerry Nery, Brenda Tierney, Chuck Culig,
Kevin Flynn, John Tarbert

Others Present:

Sherman Hamilton, Bill Mosher, Gene Putman, Jacob Riger, Laura
Rinker, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Monte Whaley, Debra Wilcox
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting to order at 5:37 p.m.

CAC Update
Debra Wilcox informed the board that the Citizens Advisory Committee had their
regular work schedule meeting in July and that they would be taking a tour of the
Gold Line for their August meeting. She stated that they had a briefing on all the
events the Board is undertaking and are awaiting getting involved with those as the
Board proceeds with the various projects ahead. Debra also informed the Board that
the CAC did have one committee member to replace. Ken Burns resigned from the

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 2 of 18

Committee. She explained that the rest of the committee members whose terms
were up have agreed to continue on the Committee.
Director Hoy commented that Ken Burns was a resident of Thornton. He asked that
if it was possible, could another Committee member be selected from the North area:
Adams County, Thornton, Northglenn, and Federal Heights.
Director Bagley explained that there is a committee of about four people that review
the applications for new members for the Citizens Advisory Committee. It includes
Scott Reed, Director Bagley, Director McMullen and Bill Van Meter. Director Bagley
told the Board that if the application comes from the appropriate place and the
applications are deemed appropriate, then that person can be appointed.
Committee Chair Cohen stated that prior to Ken’s resignation, he thought it was just
coincidental that we had full representation of all the districts on the CAC so
hopefully that can happen again. He reiterated the Board’s thanks to Deborah for her
continued service to the CAC.
II.

DUS Project Authority
Bill Mosher provided a Power Point presentation of the status of Denver Union
Station Project Authority.
Director McMullen asked if there were any unexpected environmental issues when
they dug up the area around Denver Union Station.
Bill Mosher stated that there were issues that had been expected. There was
asbestos that had been expected. He stated that there were more dewatering issues
and issues specifically with meeting our compliance requirements and screening the
water. There was extra money spent on the dewatering process to clean the water
before it went back into the river. Bill explained that the good news is that we are
now completely out of the ground and all those issues are behind us. He informed
the board that he would have to check on budget but he believes we came in under
our project allowances. He explained that we did not give that risk to the contractor
but kept the risk to keep the cost down.

III.

Recommended Actions
 Approval of 2012 Contract Award to AECOM for the final design of North
Metro Rail Line Segments 1 and 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve an eighteenmonth professional service contract award to AECOM to serve as the Final
Civil Engineering Design Contractor for the North Metro Rail Line, from Denver
Union Station (DUS) to 72nd Avenue Station, for an amount not to exceed
$10,400,000 for the years 2012 through 2014. Funds for the award are
contained in the amended 2012 FasTracks Budget.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 3 of 18

Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the August 28, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke informed the Board that there is an update
accompanying this recommended action. He wanted to give the
recommended action to the Board within the context of the
overall budget for the North Metro Segment 1, how the
commitment to go to 72nd works into the recommended action
and also the next steps.
Jane Donovan provided a Power Point Presentation of the North
Metro Rail Line Update. She stressed to the Board that the only
action today is the $10.4 million for the AECOM contract that
includes final design to 72nd. RTD did get seven proposals on
this contract and chose AECOM as they best met what we were
looking for.
Rick Clarke ended the presentation by stating that as they told
the Board last month, getting to 72nd is a top priority and
hopefully this will be looked at as some concrete steps being
taken to do that. He explained that while this will not get the
rail line to 72nd, the recommended action and enabling works
will make it much less expensive to do in the future. Rick
reiterated that the only action being taken tonight was on the
design of segments 1 and 2. He explained that this will provide
a better cost estimate and will give us time to work toward
funding for the construction piece. Rick Clarke stated that
getting to 72nd is daunting; it is $150 million just for that
segment. He explained that we do not have the answers as to
how to do it today but not to underestimate RTD. He hopes
that these enabling works will made the construction more
doable because the less expensive a project is the more doable
it is. Rick reiterated that to complete such a daunting project
we will need every dollar and every help we can get, including
help from the corridor stakeholders. He stated that the I-225
project was a great example of working with the corridor
stakeholders as they have been good to work with on FasTracks
and they generally do not ask for additional scope elements.
Committing to maintain the scope that is in the environmental
evaluation allows RTD to have a lower contingency. He also
told the Board that the opportunity for local match is helpful.
He explained that we have heard from stakeholders that there is

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 4 of 18

a DRCOG match available. North Metro chose to use that for
access to stations, roadways, sidewalks and that while these
are great projects, if it could be put into building the rail line that
will get us that much closer. Rick stated that Aurora was first
going to use their match for a parking garage but instead
decided getting the rail line first was their priority. He told the
Board that with the other recommended actions associated with
this we would be talking about the North Metro Rail Line quite a
bit in the months to come.
Director Daly asked for clarification as to what building was
pictured on page 12. Jane Donovan stated that it was the
FedEx building. She explained that it is owned by someone else
but FedEx is the renter. She informed the Board that we have
been working with them over the last three or four years to
make sure they are aware of what is going on.
Director Daly asked for an update on the Corning property and if
we were having any difficulties with building the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility. Rick Clarke stated that the main CRMF is
under construction and that the Eagle update will provide more
information. Director Malpiede expressed that she had the same
question as Director Daly.
Director McMullen asked how big of a train car system we were
looking to use and if the stations will be built to handle the
maximum number of cars. Jane Donovan stated that the North
Metro line will max out at 4 cars in 2035. Rick Clarke stated
that we are building for 4 cars in the East and 2 cars in the Gold
Line. He explained that if the Gold Line does need to go 4 or 6
cars we will have to expand the line but we are doing it on a
tangent track so that it can be expanded.
Director Hoy clarified that tonight staff was asking the Board to
approve entering into an agreement with AECOM and that the
plan is to implement more globally so we can get to 72nd which
will put us in a better position in the future to finish the corridor.
He also asked that when we look as the ancillary items it will
make it more cost efficient to build them now. Rick Clarke said
that was correct. He explained that one of the best examples
was the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. If we do not build
it now it could cost two to three times as much later on.
Director Hoy mentioned that Rick Clarke used Aurora as an
example of the spirit of cooperation that we really need to get
the North Metro corridor completed. He stated that Rick alluded
to the fact that the North area is cooperating but pointed out

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 5 of 18

some aspects of how we could get it done a little quicker and
cheaper. He asked Rick if that summarized what he was telling
the Board. Rick Clarke stated that a hard and fast commitment
to scope would allow us to not need as much contingency in the
project. He explained that all our projects deal with scope creep
and that there are legitimate disagreements about what should
or should not be done but any betterments have to come out of
our contingency. He went on to explain that we must have
adequate contingency to cover those scope requests. Rick
stated that Aurora not only committed to the scope but also
their past track record allows us to work with a leaner
contingency in the City of Aurora.
Director Tayer complimented the staff for their work. He stated
that as we see so often from staff, this is a well reasoned,
logical analysis of why the Board should consider this proposal.
He did ask where the funding of $6 million for the design
expansion was coming from. Rick Clarke explained that $4
million for segment 1 is already budget within the $90 million
total budget for segment 1. He went on to explain that when
we issued our RFP for the I-225 Rail Line, we made sure we
preserved $134 million total for the North Metro to include the
$90 million and enabling works. Rick stated that staff was not
asking the Board to act on all of that money, only the $6 million
needed for design.
Director Tayer asked staff to make a concerted effort between
now and when this item comes to the Board for final approval to
reach out to stakeholders, particularly in the corridors that are
not fully funded. He explained that there is a lot of anxiety
about the decision the Board and staff are making around
different allocations and priority of corridors. Director Tayer said
that it helps him and he believes it would help others if we are
getting input from stakeholders. He also stated that due to his
own specific interest around Bus Rapid Transit he would like to
see specifically what additional elements are remaining in the
BRT system and what is outstanding in terms of cost to
complete. Director Tayer informed the Board that tonight he
would be voting against the action but that was not a reflection
of the action. He just needed additional time to process the
information.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff had
already started the process of talking to stakeholders about
what this action would mean. He explained that they have been
reaching out and letting stakeholders know about the North
West study.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 6 of 18

Director O’Boyle asked for clarification on the use of the terms
vehicles and cars. He stated that his recollection on the Eagle
project was about two car married sets and asked if that
constitutes one vehicle. Jane Donovan explained that she was
explained two vehicles that would make up one married set.
Rick Clarke also mentioned to the Board that we have an option
with DTP to buy the same vehicles they are using at a good
price and that option expires in 2013.
Director O’Boyle asked if Jane Donovan could quantify the huge
cost savings that would be afforded by this action and future
enabling works. Jane explained that she could not provide the
numbers right now but if the Board could picture taking one of
our existing rail lines and then build a second track next to it
with overhead catenary, tie all the system signals into each
other so they operate like one track and put in all the passing
tracks for the crossovers, it would be hard to do while still
operating the original track. Rick Clarke stated that it would be
in the millions and that staff could determine the figures to
provide to the Board.
Director O’Boyle asked for an explanation of the cost plus fixed
fee contract award with AECOM. He asked about the
advantages to RTD in that type of contract and what the
downsides might be. Rick Clarke explained that this is typically
how RTD designs our contracts. Rick stated that we have had a
lot of success with these in the past. AECOM would submit an
invoice with extensive detail about who worked on the job,
what they did, how many hours on task, etc. AECOM can only
charge their actual costs based on these extensive invoices and
then they are given a fixed fee.
Director O’Boyle stated that he is going to support moving this
item forward to the Board meeting. He sees this is important to
the projects in the North Metro area.
Director Anderson asked if there were best practices that cities
and counties could follow to speed the construction of
FasTracks. She wondered if there were ways that all areas and
corridors could use the assets that they have and the ability to
get money from DRCOG so that it would increase the likelihood
that FasTracks will be constructed sooner rather than later. She
expressed her desire to work together so we can meet the goal
of the original FasTracks.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 7 of 18

General Manager Washington stated that we are constantly
looking at ways to accelerate the schedule. That is why RTD
had a transportation industry forum and why RTD revised our
unsolicited proposal policy. He explained that those two items
allowed us to do a number of things. Those lead to the
unsolicited proposals on the North Metro line that did not quite
work out and the I-225 line that did. General Manager stated
that we created two lessons learned documents on the
FasTracks program 2.5 years ago to allow us to better forecast
sales tax revenue and to better estimate inflation. He went on
to state that we are continually looking for ways to complete
FasTracks. He explained that when you look at Eagle P3, we
are the only ones doing that (public-private partnerships) so in
some things we are setting the pace and trend in the industry.
But even with setting the pace and trend, we are looking for
new ideas and they are coming to us every day.
Director Bagley echoed the comments of Directors Tayer and
Anderson in reference to the stakeholders on the other corridors
including the Little 3. He believes it is important to be reaching
out to the stakeholders. He stated that especially in relation to
the South West corridor, he believes that many of the entities
involved do not know how they could get together and come up
with options like the South East corridor has done with the
Denver South Economic Development Partnership. He
suggested coming up with some methodologies or explain how
something similar can be done for the other corridors. He stated
that while he does support it he will be voting against the action
tonight for reasons similar to Director Tayer’s.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that they will
be receiving a memo that outlines the path forward for the
extensions similar to the remaining Big 3. He explained that part
of that path is meeting on a quarterly basis with stakeholders in
the extensions just like we are doing with the remaining Big 3 to
determine a path forward and lay out ideas that we have seen
from the international community about how to finish
FasTracks.
Director McMullen asked about the Taxi development and if they
were going to be an impact on moving forward. Jane Donovan
explained that the impact on them is now about a 65 foot
swamp in the back of the property which is much decreased
from the original plan. She told the Board that we do talk to
them fairly often and everything seems to be okay.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 8 of 18

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12
members in favor (Anderson, Cohen,
Daly, Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, O’Boyle, McMullen,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 3
against (Bagley, Deadwyler and
Tayer).
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.



Request for authorization to submit to DRCOG an amendment to the 2035
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize submittal of an amendment to the 2035 Regional
Transportation Plan (RTD), including a supporting financial plan, to the Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) in August, 2012. Because the
RTD Board of Directors decided not to pursue a sales and use tax election in
2012, an amendment to the RTD is necessary to meet the federal requirement
that the RTP be “fiscally constrained.” Not having a “fiscally constrained”
RTP could negatively impact federal funding for transportation projects
throughout the region.
The Financial plan for the RTP amendment assumes no additional sales and
use tax will be available to fund the FasTracks program prior to 2035.
Projects included in the amendment are consistent with the FasTracks Guiding
Principles and were selected because they represent current commitments of
program funds, or they are strong candidates for leveraging public/private
funds and/or receiving federal grants. The projects included in the financial
plan include:











West Rail Line: Complete 2013
Denver Union Station: Complete 2015
I-225: Complete 2016
Eagle Project: Complete 2016
Northwest Rail – Longmont Station: Complete 2015
Central Corridor Extension – Planning Study: Complete 2012-2013
Southwest Corridor Extension – UP Rail Line Relocation: Complete
2015
US 36 BRT:
o $120M for Managed Lanes to 88th Street: 2012-2014
o Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge: Complete 2012
o $15M for Managed Lanes to Table Mesa: 2014/2015
o Remaining RTD funding commitment available: 2030-2035
North Metro:
o Construction to National Western Stock Show: 2017

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 9 of 18



o Complete to 72nd using local funds: 2030-2035
Southeast Corridor Extension: Complete assuming 50% federal grant
funding 2030-2035

The RTP Amendment represents a snapshot in time and can change in the
future as new opportunities arise. Since a full SB 208 Report will not be
developed until February 2014, the additional time will provide the RTD Board,
staff, and stakeholders the opportunity to work together to consider the
options and make collaborative decisions regarding the build out of the full
FasTracks Plan.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the August 28, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

General Manager Washington began by explaining that the
proposed Regional Transportation Plan is a snap shot in time.
Staff will continue to bring the annual program evaluation and
DRCOG report to the Board every year. He stated that once this
was approved by DRCOG, RTD would have 12 months to bring
the full senate report. General Manager told the Board that we
do expect to accelerate the schedule presented but this is a
required process that we are doing with this amendment. He
asked the Board to allow RTD to stay on the schedule agreed to
with DRCOG for this amendment to be submitted in August.
General Manager Washington explained that this schedule is
based on no additional revenue for the DRCOG vision period
through 2035.
Bill Van Meter and General Manager Washington provided the
Board with a Power Point presentation on the RTP. Bill Van
Meter explained to the Board that DRCOG has two cycles every
year that allow for amendments to be submitted. This means
that if opportunities arise to fund projects that are not in this
current amendment, RTD can request another amendment.
General Manager Washington stated that on page 6 of the
presentation the chart should also include the North West
corridor study that we expect to begin in the fall. Director
Bagley asked for clarification on if that study could be funded
with FasTracks funds. General Manager stated that staff is
figuring that out and will come back to the Board once they
have more information.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 10 of 18

Bill Van Meter asked that the Board keep in mind that this RTP
is a very conservative recommendation. Everyone would like to
see things get done faster and he believes we can do that.
Chair Kemp requested that staff list all the components of the
Eagle Project on page 6 when this item it brought back to the
Board for final consideration.
Director Tayer stated that Marla Lien provided him with a great
explanation of the process for creating a Regional Transportation
Authority that allows local governments to come together to
provide local funding. He asked to get a briefing on how local
governments can set these up to get funding focusing on if
these governments could put an RTA together, could they
forward funds to RTD and how would the payback mechanism
work. Director Tayer stated that he sees a lot of potential
opportunity in cases where local governments really want to get
their projects done and may be willing to commit some of their
money initially with the expectation that they get paid back.
Director Deadwyler asked why there were no projects planned
between 2018 and 2030 in this RTP. Bill Van Meter explained
that the plan reflects our current financial limitations and there
will be no significant capital funding opportunities until the 2030
timeframe with our current revenues.
Director Hoy stated that in the previous presentation there was
a lot of optimism about getting to 72nd and then in this plan we
have it in the 2030 to 2035 range. He asked if that was the
reality of our situation unless something changes. Bill Van
Meter explained that unless we can find opportunities to
accelerate, which we have been successful in doing, and given
our current conservative assumptions, the opportunity to get to
72nd does not exist until then. He informed the Board that even
to be able to leverage and complete the projects in 2030 we
would need additional TABOR capacity. Bill stated that things
are tight even given the admittedly conservative assumptions.
Director Hoy echoed Director Tayer’s comments that it might be
beneficial to our communities to provide further information on
Regional Transit Authorities and how those organizations work,
how they can be implemented, and what they can accomplish.
Bill Van Meter recognized that Board’s desire that RTA
information be part of the dialog between now and the Board’s
consideration of Senate Bill 208.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 11 of 18

Marla Lien explained that several years ago enabling legislation
was passed allowing at least two governmental entities to form
a Regional Transportation Authority. The RTA would have
broader taxing authority than RTD but there would still need to
be a formation, a taxing election and a debt election. She
stated it would be a subset of the RTD District. She explained
that if RTD wanted to pay back the money received from an
RTA there would still need to be another RTD vote because RTD
would still need TABOR authority to make a multiple year fiscal
commitment to pay back another entity.
Director Hoy asked if a city and county could create an RTA to
fund one of our projects and RTD was not one of the partners in
the RTA. He asked that if this happened, RTD would not have
to go to voters to receive these funds. Marla explained that
they could but there would still need to be an intergovernmental
agreement, an election for taxes, an election to issue debt and
get a net present value of that revenue stream, an election to
bond against it and an election to give it to RTD. Or if they
wanted to give that money to RTD over time there would still
need to be a TABOR election. Marla stated that for RTD to
receive funds without a payback we would not need to go back
to voters.
Director Tayer stated that what Marla laid out for the Board is
very complicated but he thinks it is an opportunity among many.
He believes that an RTA is a concept that presents an option we
should look at. He also presented a local community loaning
money to RTD with an IGA as an example. He thinks that
whatever the options are it is a good idea to walk though them,
think about them in terms of positive opportunities, and see how
we can make them work. He thinks they have not been talked
about yet.
Director Anderson stated that the bottom line is that in order to
complete FasTracks, RTD needs more revenue. She stated that
she is not in favor of doing RTAs here and there. She explained
that we could have gone out for a sales tax vote this year but
because of the negativity of the discussions in the outlying
areas there was no way it would have passed. Director
Anderson reiterated that we need more money in the FasTracks
system and it is not the fault of this current Board that we do
not have it. She told the Board that she heard from a
Westminster city council man that they lost huge amounts of
money from their budget from the recession as did RTD.
Director Anderson believes that is we are going to go down any
sales tax route we might as well do it as the RTD District and

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 12 of 18

work with our stakeholders to find a way to pass it. She also
stated that RTD was also looking for opportunities to complete
FasTracks within our means and that brought the Eagle Projects,
the I-225 project and it is now helping with the North Metro and
US 36. She thinks we should not get bound up in different
ways to tax ourselves to finish what we set out to accomplish.
Director McMullen stated that he thinks this is a very sobering
document and also very accurate. He believes it shows us
where we have to go today. He agrees with staff that it can
change tomorrow but today we are obligated to put this
forward. Director McMullen stated that it is clear, concise and
gives little error for speculation.
Director Gore asked that if we determine there is not a local
match for the New Starts grant for the Southeast extension,
would the process of applying for the grant stop. General
Manager Washington explained that at that point staff would
bring the item back to the Board for a policy decision about how
to proceed. He stated that we have 15 to 18 months to make a
commitment to a local match. If we do not realize additional
revenue, we would hope stakeholders would come forward with
the match. He reiterated that right now there is no commitment
to come up with the funding.
Director Gore asked if there was enough reasonable assumption
of a match on the North Metro line once we complete to 72nd.
General Manager stated that he believes there is a reasonable
assumption which is why getting to 72nd is so important and
why we are doing everything we can to get there.
Director Gore stated that he understands that in October the
New Starts program will have new criteria. He asked how that
would impact RTD. General Manager Washington stated that
we have looked at the new criteria and do not think it would
have any impact on RTD’s application.
Director James expressed his appreciation for the dialog that
was occurring, particularly the conversations about involving our
stakeholders. He stated that what is on the table now is the
approval of a plan and when the plan comes back up for
approval it will be very different from today’s plan. He also
stated that the second process being discussed was involving
RTD’s stakeholders and the thinks that is a great idea. He
believes we should be encouraging collaboration and helping the
stakeholders become as knowledgeable as possible as to what
the options might be to fund the remainder of the project.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 13 of 18

Director Malpiede asked what stations there were up to 72nd.
Rick Clarke said that the Stock Show and 72nd were the only
stations.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Authorization of Fiscal Authority to the General Manager for the I-225 Rail
Line Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (“Board”) pass the attached Resolution Number __, Series
2012, to provide the General Manager or designee with authority to enter into
all contracts, real property transactions and intergovernmental agreements for
the I-225 Rail Line Project in the amount not to exceed the remaining project
budget of $605.3 million, and to amend the project to accept third party
contributions without further board approval. This authority shall include the
ability to negotiate and execute all contracts; work orders; change orders and
contract modifications; agreements for the acquisition and conveyance of
property interests; and intergovernmental agreements that are necessary or
advisable to complete the I-225 Rail Line within the scope of the I-225 Project
budget and to accept grants or other contributions and to increase the project
budget in the amount of third-party contributions for the project work.

Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board at the August 28, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Cohen stated that this is something the Board
has done in the past. Rick Clarke explained that this was done
on T-Rex and the Southwest corridor and it has always been
successful. He explained that the rationale behind this is that
RTD needs to be nimble and quick in its decision making. Rick

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 14 of 18

stated that as staff is doing with the Eagle Project and West
corridor, they will keep the Board updated and get their input on
policy decision that need to be made. Marla Lien informed the
Board that this authorization would not cover bonds and those
will be brought to the Board as separate actions.
Director Daly made two corrections to the resolution that have
been changed.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker) and 0 against.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.

I.

Updates
 West Rail Line
Jim Starling provided the Board a Power Point presentation on the West Rail
Line.
Committee Chair Cohen informed the Board that Chair Kemp appointed
Director Malpiede to the committee that is commissioning the artwork for the
line. Director Malpiede stated that the committee was convened for a tour of
the line and it was really amazing. She stated that she is honored to sit on
the committee and expressed how amazing the other members are. She told
the Board that she is looking forward to such an amazing project.
Director Daly stated that it is very exciting that the line is almost done. He
also stated that the reported theft of copper continues to be a major problem.
He asked what was being done to prevent this.
Jim Starling explained that when we had thefts of the overhead wire we
began looking at a lot of different options. He told the Board that security has
been increased and we are now using wireless cameras. He stated that the
good news is that there have not been any additional thefts of the overhead
wire but we do continue to have theft on an infrequent basis of some of the
ground rods and connecting wires.
Rick Clarke explained that from this project there are some lessons learned.
He told the Board that going forward there are things we can do like embed
the ground wire in concrete rather than leave it exposed; weld the manholes
shut; grease the wire so it is difficult to steal so that we are reducing theft.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 15 of 18

These are all things that will benefit the I-225 project. Rick also stated that
we have insurance that covers these thefts but RTD must pay a deductable.
Director Hoy informed the Board that he was in Director Cohen’s district and
had people asking when the line was going to be running. He stated that
there is a lot of interest and people are really excited. Director Hoy also
expressed his excitement for the bike event but noted the Bus Roadeo on the
same day. He asked if it was possible to do both. Committee Chair Cohen
said yes.
Chair Kemp emphasized that both of the events were scheduled on the same
day for good reasons. He stated that is it very important that we support our
base core system at the Bus Roadeo. He asked the Board to really try to
attend both events as both are highly important.
Director Tobiassen stated that he talked to former Director Ruchman. Director
Ruchman said that in his conversations with people in the West corridor there
were a lot of concerns about bike access to the stations. Director Tobiassen
requested that staff get with him to discuss these concerns. Jim Starling
informed the Board that he heard about some specific concerns from the City
of Lakewood regarding access from Wadsworth. They asked if there could be
access from the bike path to get directly on the platform. Jim explained that
the design had access coming from below the platform. The bikes would
have to cross the tracks to allow access from the path and that would create
an unsafe situation. Jim told the Board that he had provided this information
to Lakewood. General Manager Washington said that he would have Brenda
Tierney get in touch with former Director Ruchman.
Director Bagley stated that it is really exciting that the first component is
going to be completed on April 26th and that we are so far ahead of schedule.
Director Bagley asked how long it would take to get from the Taj-Mahal to
Union Station. Jim Starling said 35 minutes.
Director Walker stated that he knows a lot of public utilities in general
experience a lot of copper thefts. He said he thinks the bike path will be a
good way to get people out of their cars and moving which will free up space
on the road and get people moving. He expressed his excitement of the line
opening.
Chair Kemp told the Board that this is the first fully complete part of
FasTracks and he thinks we should all be happy and proud. He congratulated
Jim Starling and the team and asked that the Board’s thanks be passed along.
Director McMullen asked if the bridge over 6th Avenue would remain the same
color and when it would be lit up. Jim Starling explained that the steal used is
self weathering so it provides a protective rust coating and does not require

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 16 of 18

paint. He stated that the lighting is functioning and it will probably be lit next
spring when trains are testing.
Director McMullen stated that we have gone through a long time of angst. He
explained that when he first got on the Board a term they used back then was
value engineering. Director McMullen said that we have cut out millions of
dollars from the plan. He asked for a report of what was saved under the
value engineering. He stated that he always thought that term made it sound
like it was cheap and the line does not look cheap to him. He thinks the line
looks great.
Rick Clarke told the Board that as they know this project is being finished 8
months ahead of schedule and within budget. He shared that we started with
a lean contingency so managing the project within budget and schedule was
no easy task.
General Manager Washington shared that he was recently on an airplane with
Senator Bennett. When he stopped to talk with him he asked about the West
corridor. General Manager stated that the interest for the corridor is very
high.


Eagle
Kevin Diviness and Greg Straight provided the Board a Power Point
presentation on the Eagle P3 project.
Director Tobiassen began by commending the East corridor team for their
efforts in the protection of wildlife. He stated that this may seem minor and
small but it really shows a commitment to the community. He explained that
Kevin Flynn, Liz Telford and Ana Mostaccero worked to preserve some of the
colonies of prairie dogs that were in the way of construction. The team
worked with CDOT and the Land Trust Board in Colorado to find sites for the
relocation. Director Tobiassen expressed that he was amazed they pulled it
off. He thanked the team for their hard work and shared that he knows the
conservation and animal lover communities were thrilled with this relocation.
Director Anderson commended everyone on the project for the good job they
have done. She stated that she has not heard a single complaint about the
road closures. She requested an update about what was going on with the
business owners located around Sheridan.
Director Daly stated that in the early days the situation with Owens-Corning
was quite stressful. He requested further details about our current situation.
Greg Straight stated that it is going very well. He shared that he has not
heard any complaints from them. He explained that one of the other
challenges for that site is Rocla Concrete Tie. To coordinate that relocation of
that manufacturing facility has really been a challenge and our right-of-way
group has worked with them to come up with a phased availability of that

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 17 of 18

property. This has enabled DTP to continue to work on the construction of
the building.
Director Daly informed the Board that he received a phone call from a friend of
his that backs onto the Coor’s Field parking lot. She told him that in
compensation for the parking spaces that were lost by the land RTD
purchased Coor’s Field is now planning a high rise garage that she is opposed
to. Director Daly commented that with the opening of the West and East
corridor he did not understand why Coor’s Filed would need to compensate
for the parking when so many more people will be riding the train. He asked
how many spaces were lost. Greg Straight said there were 600 spaces that
were lost and the impact was undeniable. Rick Clarke also explained that this
is a source of revenue for Coor’s Field so they will want to get that back.
Greg explained that there was a whole list of considerations that were related
to the impact of the lost parking. Marla Lien stated that it was RTD’s job to
pay for the parking we took and that we have no control over replacement.
Director Bagley stated that he thought the two presentations were very good.
He requested that once they were complete they be put on our website. He
thought it would be valuable for the public to have a place to see them.
General Manager Washington said we would get them on the website. Kevin
Diviness also shared that there is an extensive website on the Eagle project
that is updated weekly.
Director Bagley shared that he attended a game at Coor’s Field and when he
saw the construction, he thought it was phenomenally done. He requested
that be shared with the group.
Director Bagley stated that in the presentation it was shared that there was
79% of the right-of-way available and that the appraisals are moving forward.
He asked if we expected any issues with the other 21% and the appraisal
work getting done in a fast manner. Rick Clarke said yes but it is something
we watch closely because it is RTD’s risk. Director Bagley asked if that was
why something different was done for the I-225 proposal. Rick explained that
this was done because we did not want to impact the resources on the Eagle
project so we are having the contractor do the appraisals and relocation work.
General Manager Washington told the Board that this is also a lesson learned
that we are not implementing.
Director Malpiede commended the entire team. She also thanked them on
behalf of the Stapleton community for the traffic alerts that were provided.
She also thanked the team on behalf of the Sand Creek Regional Greenway.
Director Malpiede stated that they did an amazing job helping the Greenway
continue their pike path. She went on to say that there has not been one
complaint from the Northeast community and she cannot begin to tell
everyone how unusual that is.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on August 7, 2012
Page 18 of 18

Director Tayer shared that he had the chance to experience the Sky Ride and
feels that DIA has really put RTD in a tight bind at the airport. He is
concerned that there is a safety issue as well as a customer service issue. He
hopes that we can figure out a better solution with DIA. General Manager
Washington explained that DIA operations have completely shut down the
West side. He stated that they did put police officers our there at all times to
monitor traffic. He said that staff will continue to talk to DIA but it will be
difficult to change anything right now.
Director McMullen asked for the status on the Smith Road and Peoria
overpass. Kevin Diviness explained that this is a city project. They issued an
RFP about a month ago and are just finalizing the evaluation. He stated that
we are expecting a short list of three or four teams soon with an RFP at the
end of the month and an NTP early next year. He informed the board that
they are working very closely with the City of Denver and City of Aurora.
Kevin stated that we have the benefit of the I-225 line making it that much
more exciting. He shared that they are meeting on a regular basis to work
through the common areas, interfaces, challenges, etc. He believes that by
the end of next year construction should begin.
II.

Other Matters
Director Daly reminded everyone that RTD would be giving our annual update on
Friday August 10 at 9:45 a.m. at the State Capitol. He welcomed Board members to
attend. He shared that Chair Kemp and General Manager Washington would be
making presentation. He also extended his invitation to the CAC members.

III.

Next Meeting Date – September 4, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

