Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 24, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
7:15 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:14 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

7:16 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

7:16 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:16 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

7:16 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:14 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:14 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

7:17 PM

7:16 PM
7:16 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:14 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Lasater and Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Tim Barlow, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Sarah Camacho, Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Carolyn
Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Heather Deckard, John Elias,
Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Anthony Forrester, Doug Gragg, Kim
Heldman, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh, Barbara
McManus, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Sue Sandoval, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Jannette Scarpino, Rahul Sood, Errol Stevens, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter

Public Present:

Morgan Bassey, Chris Elmore, Aaron Epstein, John Karner, Mike
Newman, Pedro Ramos, Anita Solano, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Cheryl Wallace, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Motorola Solutions for Purchase
of Radios (56DH012)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into a $940,000 sole source contract with Motorola
Solutions(Motorola) for purchase of mobile, portable and tower radios and
associated equipment (Contract Number 56DH012). This contract will
include an option for a 3-year extended warranty.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
indicated this request is for additional radios for security
personnel and operators on light rail vehicles and associated
equipment.
Chair Tobiassen inquired as to the life expectancy of the
radios. He wondered if these were to replace some of the
radios originally purchased or if these were to supplement
those radios. Eric Farrington, IT Program Manager, indicated
these were in addition to the originally purchased radios.
These radios have a life expectancy of 15 years and many are

lasting 20 or longer. He stated the original radios are still
going strong.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Parking Management Extended to New Facilities
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to include new parking
facilities in the Parking Management Program.
Motion:

Chair Tobiassen made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Motion to
Postpone to
a Time
Certain:
Chair Tobiassen made the motion to postpone
this item until the August 9, 2016 Operations
and Customer Service Committee Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion. Director
Walker later withdrew his second and Director
Folska seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Chair Tobiassen explained that the Parking Management
Program (Program) was adopted by the Board in 2008, which
was quite some time ago. There has been a great deal of
progress since then on the FasTracks program. He stated this
is a new world with new parking opportunities. Additionally,
the State Legislature has also changed RTD’s ability to partner
as it relates to parking. Chair Tobiassen thinks this is the time
to evaluate the Program and make it more inclusive in terms of
how RTD works with other jurisdictions as it relates to
parking.

Director Menten recognized that Chair Tobiassen gave a high
level explanation for his reasons for wanting to postpone this
item but asked for specifics. Committee Chair Anderson
reminded the Board that the City of Arvada has invested $30
million into the parking structure at the Olde Town station.
She would like to see RTD work with our partners that are
making these huge investments in our parking structures to
come up with a more up-to-date Parking Management Program
rather than use something from 2008 that did not anticipate
these scenarios. She hopes there can be a more inclusive
process.
Director Folska thanked Chair Tobiassen for taking the
initiative to postpone this recommendation until August. She
does not think it is at all ready for primetime so she will be
supporting the motion.
Director Hoy noted the irony in this item being on the agenda
tonight as he was still wearing his steel toed boots from an
earlier tour at the Westminster Station, including the new
parking structure. He does not know if anyone has talked to
Westminster or if Westminster has any plans but he thinks it
would be a good idea to at least have a discussion with them.
Chair Tobiassen commented that there is a similar situation in
Aurora where RTD and Aurora partnered to build the parking
garage at Iliff Station. He stated the negotiations related to
managing that structure and parking around the station were
still ongoing. He reiterated that postponing this item gives
RTD a chance to step back and make sure input from other
jurisdictions is included in the Program. He pointed out that
there is also a parking study in-progress that the Board should
be seeing soon and believes it is important to have this
information before moving forward.
General Manager Genova indicated staff would be bringing the
initial report from the parking study analysis to the Board in
July. He said staff would not be asking the Board to take any
action but would be reviewing the findings and information to
consider as the parking dialog continues.
General Manager Genova stated that with regards to the Olde
Town Arvada, Westminster, Iliff and Boulder Junction at
Depot Square stations, staff has had very specific
conversations with those parties. He clarified that this action
would have no impact on parking facilities where RTD has an

agreement or Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with a
municipality. He explained this action would allow RTD to
move forward with the current Parking Management Program
on the new corridors, particularly the University of Colorado ALine. He thinks there is a great opportunity for increased
revenue as staff anticipates parking along that line to increase.
He stated delaying approval until August would delay
implementation as he cannot authorize the vendor to undergo
installation of necessary equipment without Board approval.
He believes it will take approximately 30 to 60 days to
implement after approval.
Chair Tobiassen reiterated that there is an opportunity to look
at the parking study in conjunction with the Parking
Management Program to evaluate what really make sense and
ensure our jurisdictions understand how RTD does business
from a parking perspective.
Director Menten expressed concern that RTD would be giving
up revenue by holding off on this action as the garages
mentioned by other Directors would not be affected. General
Manager Genova explained that RTD currently charges for
parking at the Central Park and 40th and Pena stations along
the University of Colorado A-Line and stated that Director
Menten was correct that we would be giving up revenue at
the other stations along that line. The recommendation to
include the new parking facilities in the Parking Management
Program would not include facilities for which there was
already an IGA in place such as the Iliff and Westminster
stations. He indicated that staff is currently having ongoing
conversations/negotiations with the respective municipalities
about how those facilities would be managed.
Errol Stevens, Parking Management Administrator, pointed out
that a 90 day notice must be posted prior to charging for
parking, which has been done along the University of Colorado
A-Line facilities. He said this means RTD could begin charging
for parking at the remaining University of Colorado A-Line
Park-n-Rides beginning July 25, 2016. He believes RTD would
capture more revenue as staff is seeing more travelers on that
line. Director Menten stated she would prefer to get the
additional revenue and people into the groove if it will not
affect the stations other Directors were concerned about.
Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities, apologized for
not providing the Board with the option to just approve adding

the Park-n-Rides along the University of Colorado A-Line. He
explained staff’s intent had been to approve adding all the
facilities so they did not have to bother the Board on a
continuing basis as new lines opened.
Rolf Asphaug, Acting General Council, suggested that the
Board could defeat the motion to postpone and then move to
amend the pending motion to narrow it down or change the
wording to allow certain stations to be excluded. Committee
Chair Anderson agreed that sounded like a fairly good plan and
asked Chair Tobiassen and Director Walker how they wanted
to proceed.
Chair Tobiassen stated he preferred to move forward with
postponing the item. He understands the negotiations with
Aurora are not going well and the IGA is up in the air, to put it
mildly, which he finds disturbing. He explained that is his
reason behind wanting to ensure the Parking Management
Program is really evaluated. He stated with the situation on
the University of Colorado A-Line over the past few days it
might not be bad to delay charging until things are stabilized
and operating consistently.
Director Hoy asked if his understanding was correct that
regardless of tonight’s decision, the Westminster station
would be independent of the Parking Management Program
and thus not be affected either positively or negatively. Robin
McIntosh stated that was correct.
Director Bagley pointed out that parking is the elephant in the
room, for the entire District. He stated parking is a very
critical issue. He believes RTD needs to start setting
parameters about how we deal with parking management so it
is not one-off situations all the time.
Director Walker wondered if there would be anything
precluding another jurisdiction from approaching RTD about
entering into an IGA if the staff recommendation was passed
this evening. General Manager Genova indicated an
agreement could be entered into with a municipality,
jurisdiction, etc. should we want to do something differently.
Committee Chair Anderson stated her objection is that this is a
policy from 2008. She said she has been hearing from cities
that say the program is not working and there is no
negotiating. She believes with more time it would be possible

to come up with a good plan. She agrees with Director
Menten’s concern about losing revenue but it is only a period
of a few months.
Director Lubow wondered if it would be possible to just deal
with the University of Colorado A-Line and allow for a more
thorough discussion on the other lines to continue. She thinks
it would be good to do something that will generate revenue
while still allowing the Board to look at the broader issues.
Henry Stopplecamp stated it would be possible to make an
amendment to the original motion.
Henry Stopplecamp noted that there were really two issues on
the table: locations where RTD owns the property completely
and sites where we have teamed up with other local
municipalities and have an IGA. He stated locations where
there is an IGA are really different than RTD surface Park-nRides. He explained the intent of staff’s recommendation was
to cover anything not already covered through an IGA. He
said staff is more than happy to work with the various
municipalities going forward.
Errol Stevens said his sense is if the four facilities of concern
could be disconnected from the other new parking facilities
staff’s recommendation could advance; however, a
postponement would tie up both items as it stands now. He
questioned if the Board could find a way to separate the two
issues to approve the Parking Management Program for those
facilities that are solely owned and operated by RTD.
Director James thinks the idea of segmenting the two issues is
interesting. He wondered if passing staff’s recommendation
this evening would preclude the Board from making future
changes based on the results of the parking study. Errol
Stevens explained this action just established what facilities
were including the Parking Management Program; if the Board
voted to approve a new program these facilities would then be
covered by that program.
General Manager Genova reminded the Board that staff moved
forward with a parking study due to an unsolicited proposal
that was received related to monetizing parking District-wide.
It was determined the proposal had merit but there were many
questions surrounding the concept. He explained that even if
the Board wanted to move forward with a different program
down the road the facilities covered by IGAs would still have

to be bifurcated out of the new program. He said another item
to consider is how to deal with the contract currently in place
with our Parking Management provider that is good through
2018. If the Board were to fundamentally change how the
program is managed we would have to negotiate closing out
our contract with the provider.
Director James asked if staff had an estimate as to how much
revenue would be generated from the additional University of
Colorado A-Line facilities. Errol Stevens stated it would be
difficult to provide a figure with all the changes in travel
patterns with the opening of the line. He said overall the
program produces $1.3 million in gross revenue per year so he
does not anticipate it will be a large figure.
Director James indicated he would vote against the motion to
postpone.
Director Walker commented that the reason several Directors
want to postpone the recommendation is to give our partners
more time to evaluate the program. He indicated after hearing
more from staff and the fact that the facilities of concern will
not be included, he is going to withdraw his second. He
believes there is the opportunity for discussion but will provide
some revenue and stability for the University of Colorado ALine.
Director Folska stated she would second the motion to
postpone this recommendation to a date certain.
Director Folska said she had similar concerns to those
expressed by other Directors. She feels that the current
Program is just patchwork. There is not a program that is
clear and ubiquitous for the entire District. She believes effort
should be put into doing something thoughtful and consistent.
Director Folska also thinks there are bigger fish to fry like why
the University of Colorado A-Line is not working like it should.
Director Lubow noted that whether the Board approved the
recommendation this evening or not, staff understands that
they need to go forward and do a thorough review of the
current Program. She does not want RTD to lose revenue
which is why she will vote against postponing; however, she
reiterated that it is important to continue to have discussions
about where parking is going.

Committee Chair Anderson expressed that in reading the
recommendation she did not feel it exempted anything. She
does not think staff has listened to our partners so she will be
voting in favor of postponing.
Rolf Asphaug pointed out that since there were 12 Directors
at the meeting the motion to postpone to a time certain would
require 7 in favor to pass.
RESULT:
POSTPONED TO A DATE CERTAIN [7 TO 5]
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Solano, Tobiassen
NAYS: Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• 2016 Title VI Program Update
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the 2016 Title VI Program Update to comply
with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
introduced Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, and Shontel
Lewis, Title VI Specialist, who reviewed a Power Point
presentation that is included in the May 24, 2016 Operations
and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet.
Michael Washington reminded the Board that a Title VI
Program Update must be submitted to the Federal Transit
Administration every three years as a condition of federal
financial assistance. He said that as the Board was probably
aware, Title VI prohibits discrimination on the basis of race,
color and national origin. The FTA prescribes the following
measures to guide recipients of federal funds in the promotion
of socially equitable transit:
 Equity Analyses
 System-Wide Service Standards and Policies
 Service Monitoring

 Public Engagement
Michael Washington explained that an equity analyses must
take place for any fare changes as well as any major service
changes and all new openings. He noted that public
engagement was a very important part of the process. He
asked Shontel Lewis to review the recent public engagement
process during the equity analyses for the University of
Colorado A-Line Service Changes.
Shontel Lewis outlined the philosophy related to public
engagement as follows:
 Meet the Community Where They Are
 Identify Generalizable Concerns
 Build Rapport with the Community
 Partner with the Community
She explained as part of the process the environmental justice
communities first had to be identified. These are communities
within the affected area that have an above average
proportion of minority and low-income households.
Shontel Lewis noted there were many challenges during the
public engagement process such as circulation of
misinformation, trust and transparency. Staff’s goals were to
illustrate the benefits of the service changes, remediate
misunderstandings and listen to community concerns. She
said there were four strategies used during the public
engagement process which included having volunteers ride
routes within the effected communities, having tables and
volunteers at Park-n-Rides and bus stops, driver outreach, and
public meetings called “Know Your Routes”.
Shontel Lewis stated this was really a great opportunity to
engage with the community. The team made contact with
over 1,000 riders who really appreciated the efforts made by
RTD.
Michael Washington highlighted the importance of
understanding the level of effort that went into making sure
our riders would not be negatively impacted by the large
amount of changes that were happening with the University of
Colorado A-Line opening. It was incredibly important to make
sure everyone was aware of the changes and how to take
advantage of them.

Director Francone thanked the team for doing such a good job.
She requested an electronic copy of the full update that would
be submitted to the FTA. Michael Washington said he would
make it available.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
AWAY:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• August 2016 Service Change Final
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the August 2016 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $1,085,400 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 31, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
shared with the Board that staff received a letter from
Commerce City requesting that Route 62 be removed from the
August Service Changes. He explained that originally this
route was to be funded through a grant received by Commerce
City; however, there was supposed to be a new roadway
constructed for the route that is not yet complete. Bruce Abel
said per Commerce City’s request staff was asking for an
amendment to remove Route 62 from the August Service
Changes.
Motion to
Amend:

Director Solano made the motion to remove
Route 62 from the August Service Changes.
Director Folska seconded a motion.

Rolf Asphaug indicated the Board could approve this
amendment via a unanimous voice vote. Hearing no
objections, Committee Chair Anderson declared the
amendment passed.
Discussion:

Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
reminded the Board that in August there is the
reimplementation of school service, which accounts for a
majority of the changes. He noted the increase in service of
the Free Metro Ride but pointed out this was entirely funded
through a Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement
Grant. He explained that August Service Changes will now
have an annualized cost of approximately $549,600 versus
$1,085,400 when Route 62 was included.
Chair Tobiassen stated there were several minor service
changes along Route 43 that were needed in his District
related to bus stop placement. Jessie Carter explained this is
something that staff is working on but per new Federal Transit
Administration Guidelines all new bus stops must be 100%
ADA compliant. Bruce Abel shared that staff would be
briefing the Board on these changes next month with more
detail as staff is evaluating how they impact our operations.
Director Francone asked staff to speak to the proposed Route
CV/CS/CX. She wondered if it negatively affected any riders.
Jessie Carter explained that the proposal is to convert the last
Route CV trip to a Route CS trip so it also served the Federal
Center Station. He said there were four people that provided
comments and believe it would be better to add a trip than
convert the last trip. He noted adding a trip would cost money
so at this time staff is standing with the current proposal. He
stated the four people that provided comments believe this
negatively impacts them.
Director Francone wondered if the Lockheed Martin Call-n-Ride
was still operating or if it has been folded into the South
Jeffco Call-n-Ride service. Bruce Abel stated there were no
recommendations at this time to eliminate the Lockheed
Martin service. Director Francone said it would be interesting
to see if ridership has been improving. Bruce Abel commented
that ridership has not improved and the service is currently
under review.
Director Hoy asked for clarification about the differences
between Route 72 and 72W. Jessie Carter explained that

Route 72W goes to Westminster High School while Route 72
ties into the B-Line at the Westminster Station.
Director Hoy also asked for further information about Route 31
as he found the explanation confusing. Jessie Carter
explained that staff would be using an interline change to
provide a trip further north at no cost.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Menten,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Judy Lubow
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

 University of Colorado A Line Update (no back-up)
Bruce Abel explained that staff wanted to provide a brief update on ridership
numbers after the first four weeks of operations on the University of
Colorado A-Line. He said ridership averages were 15,860 for the first week,
16,900 for the second week, 17,640 for the third week and 16,700 for the
fourth week. He shared that ridership data has been gathered from the
automatic passenger counters that were installed on all commuter rail
vehicles.

• RTD Commuter Rail Oversight
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, introduced
Walt Stringer, Senior Manager of Commuter Rail, Henry Stopplecamp,
Acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, and Greg Straight,
Engineering Project Manager. He asked Walt Stringer to review the Power
Point presentation that was included in the May 24, 2016 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet.
Walt Stringer explained that since service began on the University of
Colorado A-Line, staff wanted to ensure the Board understood how RTD
oversees Denver Transit Partners (DTP) and the commuter rail performance,
the metrics that must be met, and the invoice process. He said RTD staff
utilizes a comprehensive Oversight Plan with Concession Agreement (CA)
specific forms to record observations. He stated that Availability Payments
are pre-set payments outlined by the Concession Agreement that may
include a performance adjustment if certain metrics are not met. Invoices
are submitted by DTP that capture all required performance elements. These

invoices are then reviewed by RTD staff to confirm accuracy of the
information submitted by DTP versus the observations made by RTD staff.
Director Lubow inquired if RTD or DTP was responsible for collection of
fares. Walt Stringer stated RTD provides the Ticket Vending Machines and
fare collection is RTD’s responsibility.
Chair Tobiassen asked staff for an update on current operations of the
University of Colorado A-Line and the recent issues. General Manager
Genova stated during the first few weeks of operations on-time performance
was very good averaging above 95%. He said the first major problem
occurred last Monday when power was lost to a train resulting in passengers
being stuck on the train for a very long time. Subsequently the University of
Colorado A-Line has been experiencing a number of power outages that
have been traumatic for our passengers, especially if they are stuck on a
train. General Manager Genova indicated the most recent issue happened
this afternoon with a train getting stuck on the bridge over Peña Boulevard
resulting in the ultimate evacuation of the train.
General Manager Genova explained that while the team was able to
determine the cause of most of the power outages, there are still some that
the reason has not been determined which is concerning. He recognized
Aaron Epstein and John Thompson from DTP who were here this evening to
answer any questions. He shared that RTD and DTP staff have regular
meetings regarding operations. He also has a monthly call with the DTP
Board of Directors, which he just had this morning. He indicated he was
able to have a very frank conversation with the Board discussing the
incidents of the past week. He said he made it very clear that this is not
satisfactory to RTD but recognized it is not satisfactory for DTP either.
General Manager Genova shared he asked the DTP Board what they planned
to do for the patrons that missed flights. They are working diligently to
provide safe, reliable service. He stated no one was taking these issues
lightly and everyone was concerned.
Director Folska feels bewildered that there are these types of problems after
the extensive testing that was done. She wonders what has changed from
when testing was occurring to cause the current events to happen. General
Manager Genova stated that to his knowledge there were no power issues
during testing and training so everyone was very surprised when this
became an issue last week. He explained whenever there was an issue the
team looked at everting to drill down to the root cause. He shared that the
cause of each power outage has been different so there was not a specific
issue that could be identified as the problem. Today a messenger wire
broke, impacting power along the entire line until the issue was isolated.

Terry Emmons noted that just because this is a new line it does not mean it
is perfect. He has dealt with several openings and there are always nuances
and issues that must be addressed.
Director Lubow stated this seems to be an anomaly or “black swan” that
engineers did not predict being an issue. She wonders what we do in this
situation. She asked if buses are standing by to pick people up if there are
problems. General Manager Genova stated that just like on light rail, if there
is a service interruption that staff expects to be for a significant period of
time a bus bridge is put in place.
Henry Stopplecamp commented this was not an issue of a “black swan” but
the process that happens when new service begins. The service starts small
and gets expanded as there are lessons learned. He said there had been
issues over the 22 years light rail had been in operations but staff dealt with
them. He shared that last Monday the power outage was due to a phase
break issue that has already been resolved in a way so that it physically
cannot happen again at that section. He stated unfortunately things happen
but the question is how quickly staff can respond to an issue.
Director Lubow said it seems like issues are happening in an order of
magnitude more than we should be experiencing. Henry Stopplecamp
pointed out that the trains had been running since November and last week
is the first time there was a loss of power.
Greg Straight emphasized that the project team is not making excuses. No
one involved finds recent performance acceptable. The entire team is doing
everything to get service to the level expected based on existing light rail.
He said generally the issues have been one-off type issues that are quickly
identified, fixed, tested and then perform stably. He stated that it is not a
scenario where the same issue is happening repeatedly.
Director Menten asked staff to compile information on how many times the
University of Colorado A-Line has broken down, how long those instances
were in duration and if it required an evacuation. She stated she needs to
be prepared with this information when she is asked questions from the
public. General Manager Genova said he would send a write-up to the entire
Board.
Director Menten noted General Manager Genova mentioned asking DTP what
they planned to do for people that missed flights but did not recall hearing
their response. She said it is one thing to give someone $9 back but what
about their flight costs. General Manager Genova stated for those patrons
contacting RTD we are giving them a free ride coupon or refund of their fare;
however, it has not been RTD’s policy to make larger reimbursements and

he does not plan to do so now. He said DTP’s Board asked if they could put
some thought into their response and get back to us.
Director Bagley reiterated that while we have had light rail for 22 years it
was done very incrementally. There has never been commuter rail in Denver
and commuter rail has not yet been operated during the spring. He
suggested that perhaps the spring thunder storms over the last week could
be the issue. He stated that stuff happens and we address it. If a burned
out wire caused an issue this week then we need to figure out what to do
so it does not happen again. He said he is very satisfied with where RTD
and DTP are going. He commented that when something is developed that
is so technologically complex you cannot expect that nothing will ever
happen. He thanked everyone for all their efforts.
Chair Tobiassen concurred with Director Bagley. He thinks it is important for
the Board to keep an eye on recurring events and have good answers for
constituents. He appreciates everyone’s hard work. He asked for daily
updates that included details so the Board could stay informed. Chair
Tobiassen also requested information on the cybersecurity of the system.
Director James thanked DTP for being present and recognized that it was a
challenging time. He suggested in the short term staff prepare something
that quickly describes what happened so the Board is prepared to speak with
the public. In the longer term he would appreciate something in-depth about
what happened. He asked if this in-depth document could also outline what
the consequences to DTP’s payment would be, if any, as being helpful to
put everything in perspective. He also asked staff to prepare an update on
the at-grade crossings. General Manager Genova indicated staff would
prepare the information.
Director Hoy thought it would be good to receive information on the status
of the at-grade crossings as well because it is a real issue. He shared that
he recently took a radio personality on a trip along the University of Colorado
A-Line and it took about an hour to get to DIA. On the return trip the
gentleman timed it and the train was within 10 seconds of 37 minutes. As
to the reports on issues that are occurring, he asked staff to be sure and
indicate if something is a repeat of a previous or similar failure. He believes
it is important for the Board to know if there is something that keeps
breaking.
Director Hoy inquired if he was correct that the B-Line is powered from the
same power source as the University of Colorado A-Line. He wonders if it
an accurate assumption that if the University of Colorado A-Line goes down
so does the B-Line. Henry Stopplecamp stated all power comes from Xcel
and goes into two substations. He said if one substation goes down the

other one should pick up the slack so the B-Line should still have power in
most instances.
Director Hoy pointed out that the B-Line is in testing right now. He asked if
the B-Line was still able to operate around the time of the University of
Colorado A-Line power failure. Arron Epstein stated he did not know what
operations were actually running at that time but knows they would be able
to run it.
Director Hoy asked for a more in-depth review of the Concession Agreement
invoice process from staff offline.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked everyone for their time this evening.
She recognized that everyone wants the same thing which is a robust transit
system that works 100% pf the time. She acknowledged it has been a
tough week but everyone is working together.
Henry Stopplecamp stated it was a fantastic team from rail operations to
construction to engineering to finance. He said everyone wants the
University of Colorado A-Line to run well. The entire team is very dedicated.

• Lost Service Hours and Hiring Update
Bruce Abel indicated the Lost Service Hours and Hiring Update reports were
included in the May 25, 2016 Operations and Customer Service Committee
Agenda Packet. He highlighted that the lost hours of service was down to
178 hours for April as compared to 800-900 hours over the winter. He
believes they are making progress and noted that forced overtime was
beginning to be reduced.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley shared he attended the APTA Bus and Paratransit Conference Last
week. He said the conference was very informative with great presentations. He
had the opportunity to see the Gillig and MCI buses and interact with the people
that build them. He attended an outstanding Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) presentation
that related to BRT across the country. He encouraged his fellow Board members
to attend these types of conferences as it is a great learning opportunity.
Committee Chair Anderson shared that she attended the APTA Transit Board
Member Seminar in San Antonio with Directors Hoy and Walker. She said there
were some excellent sessions on new Board member orientation. She further
commended the RTD Board staff for the great job they do.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 14, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 9:18 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

