1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:52 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:53 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Committee Chair
Director, District J

Present
Absent

6:52 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:01 PM
6:52 PM
6:55 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

6:51 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Absent

Directors Hoy, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen were absent. Directors Anderson,
Solano and Walker left early.
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, John Elias, John Ewy, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Lindsay Smith, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn,
Libby Winter

Others Present:

Zane Deiter, Jane Donovan, Bert Melcher, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

 APTA Legislative Conference Overview
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, noted that the Directors
should have a packet with information for their APTA Legislative Conference
trip. She said that the folder contained fact sheets for both FasTracks and
Base System. She asked that the Directors thoroughly review the overview
of events provided. Sherry Ellebracht pointed out that there is a meeting
scheduled for Monday, March 10, 2014, at 11:00 a.m. with Federal Transit
Administration’s Acting Administrator Therese McMillan. She said that the
Directors’ briefing with Patton Boggs would be on Monday evening. Sherry
Ellebracht shared that Patton Boggs had already scheduled 14 meetings with
an additional 2 or 3 left to schedule.
Chair Sisk highlighted that Charlie Cook would be the speaker for the first
General Session on Sunday, March 9, 2014 at 5:00 p.m. He shared that he
has heard Mr. Cook speak on several occasions; Chair Sisk thinks that Mr.
Cook is really wonderful to hear. Chair Sisk also noted that while there are
no formal dinners, there are evening meetings that have been scheduled.
The Directors have the Patton Boggs briefing on Monday and then a PublicPrivate Partnership (P3)/Finance meeting with George Mason University
staff.

 Local Update
Sherry Ellebracht stated that Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, was unable to
attend the meeting due to being sick but provided her with an update. She
said that the Metro Area Commissioners meeting would be on March 7,

2014 but Roger Sherman did not believe there were any agenda items that
would affect RTD. She said that the next Metro Mayors Caucus meeting
would be April 2, 2014.
Sherry Ellebracht shared that the Colorado Transportation Coalition has
decided not to release any additional analysis about the MPACT64 polling.
She explained that they would release an executive summary but would not
be doing a lot of the cross tabs that had been discussed.
Sherry Ellebracht said that Roger Sherman had been coordinating with the
Denver Union Station grand opening committee. He has reached out to each
jurisdiction about attending the May 8, 2014 Gala.
Sherry Ellebracht noted that the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC) two-on-one meetings with Directors have been going very well. She
said that Roger Sherman thanks the Directors for being so responsive.

 State Update
Sherry Ellebracht explained that at the State level there will be a
construction defects bill presented within the next few weeks. She said that
Brandeberry~McKenna will pass the bill on to the Board once it is available.
Chair Sisk commented that there has been some discussion about late bills
being presented to the legislature. He wanted to make the Board aware that
Senator Jones may bring a late bill related to P3s that would have a
potential impact for how CDOT does P3s but may impact the way RTD does
them as well.

 Federal Update
Sherry Ellebracht shared that Mike Dino of Patton Boggs was in Washington,
D.C. already so he was not able to attend the meeting. She informed the
Board that RTD was just notified that we would be receiving $150 million
for Fiscal Year 2014 (FY14) appropriations for our Full Funding Grant
Agreement (FFGA). She explained that RTD asked for $160 million to make
up for shortfalls from previous years; however, RTD received the full $150
million we were programmed to get in FY14 and staff is thrilled.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 1, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 7:02 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

