Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 23, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bill Beuthel – Manager, Statistical Data – 36 years
Bob Brown – Contract Negotiator – 39 years
Donald E. Merritt – Manager, Bus Operations Training – 26 years
Special Recognition – APTA 2017 International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo (1st Overall)
Bus International Participant
John Deschner (RTD - 8th Place)
Maintenance International Participants (1st Place)
Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez Jr., and Tim Wallace

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks Program
Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for
FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date from June 30, 2017 to December
31, 2019. Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017
Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC
support would be utilized. Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016
Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects where PSC support
would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital
budgets.
B.

2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
C.

Citibank Call Modification

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange agreement and a third
supplemental indenture of trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax
revenue refunding bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for FasTracks
Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks, increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value
through July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this award is included in the

2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects where CMSC
support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future
year capital budgets.
E.
Approval of increased Contract Authorization to Front Range Systems Consultants
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount with Front Range
Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total
contract not-to-exceed authorization of $67,482,759 and will provide funding through the
remainder of 2017. Funds for the contract authorization are included in the specific project
budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to FRSC to extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to
December 31, 2018, and increase the total contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total
contract authorization of $70,982,759. Funding for this scope is included in the 2016
Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where FRSC support would be
utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
F.

State Legislative Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a
one-year option (June 30, 2017 through June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
G.

Timekeeping System Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new time and attendance system to KRONOS
Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $750,000.
H.

Non-Profit Program 2017

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the NonProfit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017. In
addition, any new program applicant will be put on a wait list as well as any existing
agency that did not order in 2016. New participants in 2017 will be limited to what they
already ordered. Any entity that has ordered at or above what they ordered in 2016 will
not be able to order any additional product in 2017. The remaining face value at the end of
May 2017 will be divided proportionally among the remaining participants based on their
proportional value of the orders placed in 2016 to the total value of all orders in 2016.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

STUDY SESSION
April 25, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Remote
Present
Present
Present
Remote

Arrived
5:09 PM
5:26 PM
5:34 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:26 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:48 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale

Director, District G
Director, District M
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:30 PM
5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District D

Remote
Present
Present

5:27 PM
6:17 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:07 PM

Directors Anderson, Folska, and Sisk participated via phone. Director Walker arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey,
Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Russ Larson, Michelle
Madrid, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Scott Reed, Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman,
Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Packet Pg. 5

6.A

Others Present:

General Manager 2018 Tactical Plans
General Manager Genova stated that on March 4, 2017, Board Members along with the
Senior Leadership Team (SLT) convened at a Retreat to discuss strategic goals and
priorities for RTD which would drive the 2018 budget cycle. The three goals that came
out of the Retreat were:




Fiscal Sustainability (Strategic Goal #1)
Workforce and Human Capital (Strategic Goal #2)
State of Good Repair (Strategic Goal #3)

Fiscal Sustainability
General Manager Genova stated that throughout its history, RTD has had to adapt its
service levels and capital programs to different financial conditions due to the variability in
sales and use taxes, its largest source of revenue. One of the strategic goals established
by the RTD Board for 2018 relates to fiscal sustainability and the Board and staff identified
the following specific focus areas:











Consider Additional Revenue Streams
Financial Planning
Maximize Partnerships
CBA/Pension
Manage Third Party Expectations
Increase Reserves
Federal and State Funding
Minimize Borrowing and Debt
Use Innovative Approaches
Rolling Stock

Consider Additional Revenue Streams/Funding Sources
General Manager Genova commented that RTD continues to consider additional
revenue streams and examples include:
 Increased sales tax revenue through exemption parity with the State
 Implementation of the new fare structure and rates as of January 1, 2016
 Implementation of a naming rights program
 Expanded advertising to digital formats
 Pursuing a long-term solution to maintaining and operating the 16th Street Mall
 Endorsing and supporting efforts to collect sales tax revenues on internet sales
 Sale of assets and easements that do not interfere with existing or future RTD
operations

Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

Dr. William Gross, Joe Triplett

6.A





Sale of other assets not required for transit purposes
Continued pursuit of federal and state competitive grants as opportunities arise
Continued efforts to seek refinancing of debt to lower interest and principal
payments

Financial Planning
General Manager Genova explained that RTD’s Financial planning consists of evaluating
current and future financial state by using known variables to predict future revenues
and expenditures. Each year RTD staff updates the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), a sixyear plan for the Base System, and the Annual Program Evaluation (APE), a six-year
plan for the FasTracks system. In addition, the long range plan is prepared for both the
Base System and FasTracks and the planning horizon is currently 2040. In addition to
being utilized for the DRCOG Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) and Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP), the SBP and APE provide a snapshot each year for the RTD
Board and Staff to plan for the future and understand the impacts of decisions that
have been made and those that are made today, and the impact on future revenues
and operations. The SBP and APE become the basis for the annual budget each year.
He noted that, to remain fiscally sustainable, RTD must annually balance the SBP and
the APE while meeting service needs, addressing state of good repair, and large
infrastructure needs such as bus and rail facilities, while building financial reserves.
Maximize Partnerships
General Manager Genova noted that partnerships are very beneficial to RTD. He
commented that collaborating to achieve mutually beneficial financial and operational
goals, while sometimes challenging, is essential. He stated that RTD partners on a
regular basis with the state, local municipalities, federal government, and the private
sector. One recent example is the refinancing of the Denver Union Station Project
Authority’s (DUSPA) Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA)
and Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) loans. RTD worked with
the City and County of Denver to come to a mutually beneficial arrangement to
refinance and pay off the loans that will save RTD $6 million per year for the next 23
years. He stated that RTD continues to work with partners in the District to further
projects with mutually beneficial financial arrangements.
CBA/Pension
General Manager Genova commented that in March of 2013, RTD and the Union
executed a five-year agreement which is scheduled to expire in February of 2018. He

Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova noted that RTD will continue to investigate and pursue new
funding sources and will also consider additional revenue streams through collaboration
with stakeholders and the private sector.

6.A

In early 2017, RTD staff initiated a negotiating team workgroup to begin the
framework for negotiations. The major areas of focus will be wages, benefits, and
work rules. He noted that there will be challenges in addressing competing priorities
within the fiscal constraints of the RTD budget, and the current condition of
employment in Colorado, specifically in the Denver metro area.
He highlighted that RTD employees participate in one of three different retirement
plans: (1) Salaried Defined Benefit Plan, (2) Salaried Defined Contribution Plan, and (3)
the Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001
Pension Trust (for Represented employees).
1. Salaried Defined Benefit Plan
a. Plan closed to new salaried participants as of January 1, 2008
b. Current funded ratio is 78.3%
c. Current RTD contribution is $4.6 million per year which is still short of
actuarial recommendation of $7.6 million per year
d. Expected to be 100% funded in 2043
2. Salaried Defined Contribution Plan
a. Applies to all new salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2008
b. Board adopts a contribution amount each year of between 7%-9%
c. The contribution rate has been 9% since 2008
3. Union Trust Pension Plan is for all Union employees
a. Contributions are not sufficient to fund liabilities
b. Fund is currently projected to be fully depleted by 2035
c. Current funded ratio is 48.5%
d. Contributions for 2017 are 13% from RTD and 5% from the employee
e. In 2010, changes were made for employees hired after January 1, 2011
i. Changed vesting from 5 to 10 years
ii. Benefit multiplier decreased from 2.5% to 1.0%
iii. Unreduced retirement changed from age 55 with 20 years of
service to age 60 with 20 years of service
iv. Early retirement reduction changed from 5% from age 55 to 2.5%
from age 60

Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

stated that in late 2017, RTD and the Union will commence negotiations for the next
contract and the agreement will cover such things as:
 Wages
 Benefits
 Work rules

6.A

v. Sick and vacation is no longer included in pension benefit
calculation
vi. Interest on employee contributions changed from 5% to 3%

Manage Third Party Expectations
General Manager Genova remarked that RTD is increasingly receiving unsolicited
requests from stakeholders and constituents that are very difficult, if not impossible to
honor or fulfill from a financial and operational perspective. Many requests fall outside
of RTD’s approved financial plan and existing RTD policies. He stated that the
requests put RTD in a very difficult and awkward situation on many occasions and
while RTD wants to be a good and responsive partner, the agency must focus on its
purpose and fiscal sustainability.
He added that RTD will continue to work with and collaborate with stakeholders and
be responsive by explaining RTD policy and financial condition. He noted for example,
that RTD was recently compared to King County in the Seattle area and their low
income fare program. He explained that as a county, King County, and other counties
are responsible for social service programs. As RTD is not a county, it should not
assume the responsibilities of others for social service programs within the District.
He stated that RTD staff will continue to make the Board aware when these types of
informal or formal requests occur so that the Board is as informed as possible in case
the Board is approached by local governments, community members or other
stakeholders.
He noted that many of the requests RTD has received have been for special passes or
pilot programs for particular groups of constituents within the District. He highlighted
that RTD has convened a Pass Program Working Group with District-wide stakeholders
and their mission is to make recommendations on possible revisions to RTD’s pass
programs. He stated that the Pass Program working group will be completed in 2018,
and hopefully they will provide recommendations that can be implemented to the pass
programs.
Increase Reserves
General Manager Genova commented that the Board had adopted 2016 Fiscal Policies
which included a Fund Balance Policy that states the following:

Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He added that staff will continue to monitor the financial status and will report to the
Board on all the plans.

RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and FasTracks to
provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring nature, to meet
unexpected increases in costs or to mitigate service disruptions as a result of
economic downturns affecting revenue. The Base System, should strive to
maintain a total balance at an amount approximately equal to three (3) months of
Base System operating expenses excluding depreciation among the following three
reserve funds: the Board-appropriated fund, the unrestricted operating reserve, and
the remaining unrestricted fund balance. For FasTracks, the total of the Boardappropriated fund and unrestricted fund balance should be maintained at an amount
approximately equal to three (3) months of FasTracks operating expenses excluding
depreciation. RTD will consider and pursue resources that will be directed to fund
balance replenishment. For example, non-recurring revenues and budget surpluses
are an especially appropriate source for replenishing fund balance.
He added that in 2017 RTD established an operating reserve as outlined in the 2017
tactical plan. He noted that the reserve will allow for more flexibility in dealing with
revenue changes as they could be adjusted through the reserve rather than cutting
back previously approved projects or service levels.
He remarked that building reserves will allow for more flexibility in dealing with future
revenue shortfalls which is important because of the inherent economic volatility of the
District’s largest revenue source, sales tax. Growth of these reserves requires
discipline to set aside funds in the short term rather than spending the funds on service
in the short term. This short-term constraint on spending is a strategic effort to
improve the long term fiscal sustainability of RTD.
Federal and State Funding
General Manager Genova stated that Federal transportation funding is integral to RTD’s
operations and capital programs. He explained that RTD receives approximately $71
million per year for operations from the Federal Transportation Administration (FTA)
and has received full funding grant agreement dollars as well as Congestion Mitigation
and Air Quality Improvement Act (CMAQ) and Surface Transportation Program (STPMetro) dollars for various projects. RTD is monitoring the new federal administration’s
budget summary regarding New Starts, Small Starts and Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant funds. Although this may not have an
immediate impact on RTD, the possible elimination or reorganizing of these programs
could preclude RTD from getting funds from a program the agency has greatly
benefitted from in the past. RTD staff will be diligent in advocating for protection of
these important funding sources and will continue to review future proposals that may
impact transportation funding.

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

General Manager Genova commented that currently, the Colorado legislature is
considering several referred measures, the most prominent being HB17-1242. This bill
would increase the state sales tax to provide additional funds for transportation with a
portion going to the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) to support the
issuance of bonds, the cities and counties, and a portion to the transportation options
account. This bill would also reduce the road safety surcharges imposed on motor
vehicles during the period that the new sales and use tax is in effect. Since RTD
receives Funding Advancements for Surface Transportation and Economic Recovery
(FASTER) funds from CDOT on a regular basis, this mostly will have an impact of the
amount of funds RTD may receive. He stated that if this bill passes the legislature, it
would need to go to the ballot in November 2017. Should any state funding measure
pass, he stated that RTD will work with all regional stakeholders to address any
possible benefits to RTD.
Minimize Borrowing and Debt
General Manager Genova explained that RTD issues debt for large capital projects and
rolling stock and RTD’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2016 was
$3,978,918,095.






Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (Base System) - $120,525,000
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks) - $1,917,941,384
Eagle P3 TABOR Portion of Service Payments - $589,913,540
DUSPA - $151,263,171(refinanced in February 2017)
Lease Purchase Agreements/COPs - $1,199,275,000

General Manager Genova said that when deciding to issue debt, several things are
taken into consideration: (1) the amount of outstanding debt, (2) the debt service
coverage ratio, (3) the ability to repay the debt, (4) the desire to issue debt, and (5) the
ability to cash fund. Additionally, RTD seeks to build reserves to possibly issue future
debt for FasTracks completion as soon as feasible.
He noted that RTD has examined all of these factors and has chosen to use cash for
the near term rather than issue additional debt. At this time, RTD is not scheduled to
issue debt until 2023 for rolling stock and RTD will continue to review the use of debt
during the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), Annual Program Evaluation (APE), and financial
plan process.
Use Innovative Approaches
General Manager Genova remarked that RTD has been known nationally for its use of
innovative approaches such as the Eagle P3 project, Denver Union Station, and the use
of Certificates of Participation (COPs) on the North Metro Project. In order to complete

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Rolling Stock
General Manager Genova stated that RTD has traditionally managed rolling stock well,
often exceeding FTA recommended useful life through robust maintenance and state of
good repair programs. He noted that Rolling stock maintenance is addressed in the
annual RTD operating budget and Rolling stock replacement is addressed through the
6-year SBP. He said that these processes will be continued to maintain RTD rolling
stock in a state of good repair and to plan for proper replacement.
Workforce and Human Capital
General Manager Genova acknowledged that one of RTD’s greatest resources is its
employees. He noted that RTD has 2,893 employees: 874 are salaried employees and
2,019 are represented employees and fall under RTD’s Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA). He said that as a part of this goal, the Board and staff identified specific focus
areas addressed below:







Collective Bargaining Agreement
Pension
Recruitment and Retention
o Family-friendly Opportunities
o Wages
o Retirements
o Part-time Opportunities
o Scheduling
Maintain Proper Service Levels and Staffing
Equal Opportunity Employer

Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA)
General Manager Genova informed the Board that in March of 2013, RTD and the
Union executed a five-year agreement and that agreement is scheduled to expire in
February of 2018. He stated that in late 2017, RTD and the Union will commence
negotiations for the next contract and the agreement will cover such things as:
 Wages
 Benefits
 Work rules

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

the remaining FasTracks projects RTD will have to continue to look for new and
creative ways to finance, fund, build, and operate these corridors. He noted that new
approaches could include identification of new funding sources and savings in
construction or ongoing operating costs.
He added that RTD will also seek
partnerships and continue to work collaboratively with stakeholders and private sector.

6.A

Pension
General Manager Genova highlighted that RTD employees participate in one of three
different retirement plans: (1) Salaried Defined Benefit Plan, (2) Salaried Defined
Contribution Plan, and (3) the Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated
Transit Union Division 1001 Pension Trust (for Represented employees).
1. Salaried Defined Benefit Plan
a. Plan closed to new salaried participants as of January 1, 2008
b. Current funded ratio is 78.3%
c. Current RTD contribution is $4.6 million per year which is still short of
actuarial recommendation of $7.6 million per year
d. Expected to be 100% funded in 2043
2. Salaried Defined Contribution Plan
a. Applies to all new salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2008
b. Board adopts a contribution amount each year of between 7%-9%
c. The contribution rate has been 9% since 2008
3. Union Trust Pension Plan is for all Union employees
a. Contributions are not sufficient to fund liabilities
b. Fund is currently projected to be fully depleted by 2035
c. Current funded ratio is 48.5%
d. Contributions for 2017 are 13% from RTD and 5% from the employee
e. In 2010, changes were made for employees hired after January 1, 2011
i. Changed vesting from 5 to 10 years
ii. Benefit multiplier decreased from 2.5% to 1.0%
iii. Unreduced retirement changed from age 55 with 20 years of
service to age 60 with 20 years of service
iv. Early retirement reduction changed from 5% from age 55 to 2.5%
from age 60
v. Sick and vacation is no longer included in pension benefit
calculation
vi. Interest on employee contributions changed from 5% to 3%

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

In early 2017, RTD staff initiated a negotiating team workgroup to begin the
framework for negotiations. The major areas of focus will be wages, benefits, and
work rules. He noted that there will be challenges in addressing competing priorities
within the fiscal constraints of the RTD budget, and the current condition of
employment in Colorado, specifically in the Denver metro area.

Recruitment and Retention
General Manager Genova noted that as the economy has improved and unemployment
has dropped to 2.4% in the 10-county Denver Metro area and 2.6% for the State
(Denver Business Journal, April 2017), recruiting and retention have become much
more challenging, particularly in the areas of bus operators, light rail operators, and
mechanics. He explained that hiring qualified applicants is not just a Human Resource
function, so recognizing that, RTD established a Recruitment and Retention Working
Group. He stated that this group is tasked with improving RTD’s recruitment process
and increasing retention. He said that members of the working group include: AGM of
Rail, AGM of Bus, AGM of Communications, AGM of Finance and Administration, HR,
Marketing, State of Good Repair, and Bus Operations. He noted that the following
improvements have been made:








“RTD is Hiring” messages on all buses and RTD vehicles.
Advertising on billboards
RTD Hiring Bus
Holding “One-Stop Job Shops”
Hiring Bonus of $2,000
Referral Bonus of $1,000
Increase in shift differential and split shift pay

General Manager Genova commented that in 2016 RTD hired 344 bus operators, 29
mechanics, and 92 light rail operators, for a total of 465 hires. In 2016, there were
192 more hires for these same occupational groups or a 70% increase over 2015.
However, in 2016 we also had 267 bus operators leave, or net +77, 17 mechanics
leave, or net +12, and 64 light rail operators leave, or net +28. While RTD had
improvements in recruiting, it remains very challenging to sustain significant gains in a
2.4% unemployment environment.
He noted that continued and new efforts include:
 Targeting specific sectors of the community that might produce more applicants
for bus operators, light rail operators, and mechanics
 Additional research on what attracts people to RTD so staff can appeal to that
dynamic
 Reviewing wages and benefits to assure that RTD is market competitive in a
very low unemployment environment
 Reviewing scheduling methods to determine economic impacts of fewer split
shifts and shorter split shift time spreads
 Reviewing shift schedules to determine economic impacts and practicality of
other work schedules, for example 4, 10 hour shifts instead of 5, 8 hour shifts

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A




Recruiting part-time operators, especially retired operators and evaluating
possible methods to utilize part-time positions to possibly reduce the number of
split shifts
Continuing to monitor workforce regarding retirements, and
Continuing with RTD’s professional development and training programs as
described below:
Professional Development and Training
General Manager Genova explained that RTD has a very robust professional
development and training program, and each employee is offered $2,000 per
year towards education and training. He added that RTD offers “free of charge”
classes such as Word, Excel, Power Point, and other courses to provide job
enrichment and professional development for employees to learn and develop
new skills to be able to compete for promotional opportunity. In addition, he
stated that RTD also has the Leadership Academy and the Multi-Agency
Exchange (MAX) program.
General Manager Genova stated that the Leadership Academy is designed to
support RTD’s emerging leaders by focusing on the relationship of mission,
values, culture, and strategic priorities. Members of this one-year educational
program engage in comprehensive coursework that provides them with the tools
and resources to successfully guide RTD in the coming years. Employees
selected for the program benefit from professional training and mentoring by
offering a dynamic environment for the development of leadership mastery,
organizational stewardship, business fundamentals, and technical competencies
that promotes the advancement of RTD employees within the program. Since
its inception, over 120 employees have completed the program with more
graduates expected by the end of 2017.
He noted that the MAX program is designed to create future Transit Leaders
and to provide the public with continuity through the evolution of the industry
and the needs of our patrons. MAX is designed to leverage best practices of
the industry in order to minimize the learning curve and reduce the cost and
time to implement new programs. MAX participants are from RTD, Dallas Area
Rapid Transit (DART), Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA),
and Los Angeles Metro (Metro). The primary goal of the MAX program is to
expose and develop our future leaders by working with other transit agencies,
and current RTD participants in the program have graduated from the Leadership
Academy.

Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



6.A

Maintain Proper Service Levels and Staffing
General Manager Genova explained that maintaining existing service levels is
paramount to RTD’s customers in order to retain and increase ridership, especially with
the opening of new lines in 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, service cuts have had to
occur in the past: in 2009, a service reduction of 6% was needed and in 2012, an 8%
service reduction was implemented. He noted that fortunately, with steadily increasing
sales and use tax revenue since 2009, RTD has not had to make additional service
cuts. He stated that RTD will remain focused on recruitment and retention to maintain
staffing in order to deliver current service levels and will be prepared to deliver future
service levels as additional projects begin revenue service.
Ridership
General Manager Genova stated that maintaining and increasing ridership is
important to the agency. RTD will continue efforts to make the RTD system
attractive to riders and noted that patrons tend to make decisions while
considering the following factors: safety, cost, convenience, reliability and
predictability. RTD will continue efforts addressing these factors including the
use of technology to make improvements where practical and cost-effective.
Examples include the delivery of mobile ticketing and the future release of a
Request for Information to query the private sector on possible use of
technology/services to gain improvements in Call-n-Ride, Access-a-Ride, and
Mobility on Demand. He said it is important to note that while considering
technology/services such as Transportation Network Companies (TNC’s), we
must adhere to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements. The
U.S DOT recently sent correspondence to all transit agencies reminding them of
their obligation to assure equity and access for services offered.
General Manager Genova said one of the ways to combat having to make service
reductions is to have sufficient reserves to be able to withstand fluctuations in the
economy. As mentioned above, it is prudent when economic conditions are favorable,
as they are now, to make sure that reserves are adequately funded so that service
reductions are not required in the future to balance the budget.
Equal Opportunity Employer
General Manager Genova explained that RTD is an Equal Opportunity Employer and
does not discriminate against any employee or job applicant on the basis of race, color,

Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He added that RTD also utilizes other development programs through the Eno
Transportation Foundation and the American Public Transportation Association
(APTA) for an advanced learning path program. Examples include the Eno MidManagers course and Transit Executive Seminar, and Leadership APTA.

6.A

religion, national origin, ethnicity, sex or gender, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender
identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic information, or any other
characteristic protected by law.









Workforce centers
Community colleges and universities
Churches
Community centers
Chambers of commerce such as the Hispanic and Indian Chambers
Veterans Affairs
Organizations supporting people with disabilities

In addition, he noted that RTD completes workforce analysis on an ongoing basis to
further its strategic goals and pursuant to Federal Transit Authority requirements. He
stated that this continuous analysis and monitoring allows RTD to address workforce
gaps.
State of Good Repair/Asset Management
General Manager Genova commented that in 2018 RTD will continue transitioning its
major emphasis from designing and building new facilities to operating and maintaining
existing assets. At the same time, the Asset Management and State of Good Repair (SGR)
program is maturing to encompass all asset types and to meet newly mandated regulatory
requirements. He said that emphasizing life-cycle management principles will assure
safety, system performance, and efficiency. He noted that good asset management and
SGR is a strategic data-driven approach to management that guides company investments,
resources, and policy decisions to achieve goals.
He added that the descriptions below provide the tactical approaches to accomplish this
goal. Each of these areas will be addressed in 2018:






Deferred maintenance
Maintain infrastructure
Take care of what we have before expanding
Don’t give up the base
Manage and expansion of facilities

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

He added that RTD reaches out during the recruitment process to various organizations
throughout the District to attract diverse applicants. Examples of those organizations
include:

Deferred Maintenance
General Manager Genova remarked that the United States transit industry has an
estimated $90 billion backlog of assets that may not be in a suitable state of good
repair. At times, maintenance on a capital asset may be deferred due to either budget
constraints, competing financial priorities or availability of human resources. He stated
that RTD’s practice is to perform maintenance on assets according to predetermined
maintenance schedules that are entered, tracked and reported in RTD’s maintenance
management system and RTD’s contractors that are responsible for asset maintenance
use a similar approach. At all times, RTD’s goal is to maintain an asset in a state of
good repair, meaning that the asset condition assessment score is between 2.5 and 5.
RTD has a good record of performing preventative maintenance on rolling stock,
infrastructure and facilities and has been successful in extending asset lifecycle,
particularly rolling stock, by having robust maintenance programs. He added that
deferred maintenance can represent investment needs, including the cost to rehab or
replace an asset whose condition is below the state of good repair. This condition,
referred to as “Backlog”, are tracked as a proportion of total assets and have a
monetary value assigned equal to the investment required to renew the asset’s
condition and ensure continued safe and efficient use. Each year during the SBP
process, projects are reviewed and prioritized based on their current asset condition
scores, criticality to RTD’s service, and safety. Areas of focus in this area include the
following:








Development of Capital Needs Inventory (CNI)
Prioritization of maintenance and renewal projects in SBP
Dashboard backlog reports
Creating automated system notifications of assets in backlog
Accountability and transparency
o Reviewing maintenance and investment processes and procedures
o Regulatory compliance
Integrated safety management system approach

Safety Management System Approach
General Manager Genova mentioned that the FTA integrated safety into the new
asset management and state of good repair regulations. He said this integration
strategically links into the new set of safety regulations currently being promulgated
by the FTA. The new safety regulations will require transit agencies to implement a
Safety Management System (SMS) approach.
SMS is a comprehensive,
collaborative, organization-wide, data-driven approach to managing safety risk and
assuring the effectiveness of safety risk mitigations. This system will build on
RTD’s existing safety foundation to mitigate risk, detect, and proactively correct
safety problems. He added that the agency will be able to share and analyze safety

Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Maintain Infrastructure
General Manager Genova remarked that RTD’s systems rely on maintaining
infrastructure for service delivery. Maintaining infrastructure supports safety, system
performance, and efficiency. He said that the lifecycle management and maintenance
of all assets involves a common set of elements and in order to achieve and maintain a
“State of Good Repair” evaluation of the lifecycle cost, physical condition, and
performance of each class of assets is necessary. Asset Management is the link
between life-cycle management expenditures such as rehabilitation, preventive
maintenance, and unplanned maintenance to asset performance including reporting
performance restrictions for Fixed Guideways.
He commented that the Central Light Rail Corridor began revenue service in 1994. The
system requires day-to-day maintenance as well as scheduling periodic service
disruptions to perform major maintenance activities including: rail replacement, ballast
tamping, switch maintenance and replacement, traction power and signal maintenance.
The state of good repair data-driven practice aims to maximize asset performance,
minimize the total cost of ownership, and manage risks. These elements are common
to all asset classes and steps to achieving this goal include:






Complete asset register capturing all necessary attributes
Identify asset and business risks
Evaluate all current maintenance strategies and plans
Measure and analyze age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of all
system infrastructure
Integrate safety management system approach

Taking Care of What We Have Before Expanding
General Manager Genova added that increasingly, the U.S. DOT has emphasized the
need for transit agencies to maintain existing assets in a state of good repair. This
new regulation (Asset Management and State of Good Repair) also integrates state of
good repair with safety management systems and new regulations regarding safety.
He remarked that RTD assures that existing assets are appropriately maintained
through the SBP, APE and annual budgeting processes and this aligns with the FTA’s
emphasis on the need to maintain, rehabilitate, and replace existing transit
investments.

Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

data more effectively, and measure safety performance more carefully. SMS is the
formal, top-down business approach to managing safety risk including the
necessary organizational structures, accountabilities, policies and procedures. He
noted that RTD has adopted SMS and is working toward the initial implementation.

He stated that this starts with the Strategic Budget Planning (SBP) process and the
District’s ability to direct resources towards assets that are in need of reinvestment
due to backlog or safety. Assets that are no longer in a state of good repair, scoring
below a 2.5 on the National Transit Economic Requirements Model (TERM) scale, are
considered to be in backlog and are flagged for a safety review as well. Assets in
backlog will be tracked in the Capital Needs Inventory (CNI) that will be a supplemental
input to the SBP and APE processes. The CNI will ensure RTD’s existing assets
receive the funding necessary to fulfill the commitment to state of good repair and
areas of emphasis will be:





Creating a Capital Needs Inventory
Measuring and analyzing age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of all
SGR qualified assets
Developing methodologies to optimize for capital investment and maintenance
decisions
Annually budgeting for major life-cycle activities, renewals, and replacements of
assets over short and long term horizons

Don’t Give Up the Base
He noted that, similar to the previous objective, focus on maintaining the base system
services will be achieved through the SBP and annual budget processes and targets
related to the base system.



Measure and analyze age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of all SGR
qualified assets
Publish a Transit Asset Management State of Good Repair plan (TAMP).

Manage and Expansion of Facilities
RTD’s current facilities include:











Two light rail maintenance facilities
One commuter rail maintenance facility
Four bus maintenance facilities
Denver Union Station
Civic Center Station
Downtown Boulder Transit Center
Boulder Junction at Depot Square
A number of support and administrative facilities
Light rail and commuter rail stations, and
Park-n-Rides.

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

General Manager Genova commented that most RTD facilities are operating at capacity
and expansion of any facility would be challenging and that the bus maintenance
facilities are of particular concern given their age (ranging approximately 27 – 40 years
old) and the inability to expand capacity. RTD manages and maintains these facilities
through the SBP and annual budgeting process and RTD’s practice is to perform
maintenance on facilities according to predetermined maintenance schedules that are
entered, tracked, and reported in RTD’s maintenance management system. A number
of facility-related projects are submitted each year in the SBP process to maintain
facilities in a state of good repair and assure that all facility equipment and systems are
available. These projects are prioritized during the SBP process to address the most
critical needs as more requests are received than RTD is able to fund in any given year.
He noted that RTD will need a new bus maintenance facility should the District expand
operations beyond the current number of buses and sub-fleets and a new facility
should be planned as part of the SBP process.
General Manager Genova added that the approach to SGR for RTD facilities is similar to
all assets, considering evaluation of the lifecycle cost, physical condition assessment,
and performance of each class of assets is necessary. Asset Management is the link
between life-cycle management expenditures such as rehabilitation, preventive
maintenance, and unplanned maintenance to asset performance including mean cost
per square foot and frequency and time out of service. This data-driven practice aims
to maximize asset performance, minimize the total cost of ownership, and manage
risks. These elements are common to all asset classes but differ in implementation and
steps to achieving this goal include:






Identifying asset and business risks
Dashboard Key Performance Indicator’s (KPI’s)
Measuring and analyzing age, utilization, cost, condition and performance of
facilities
Evaluating all current expansion policies, plans, and maintenance strategies
Forecasting operations and maintenance costs using historical comparisons.

Chair Hoy thanked the General Manager for his presentation and stated he would take
questions from the Board. He reminded the Board that their questions should be focused
to 2018 as this presentation covered items for implementation next year.
Director Broom asked what the Pension Trust plan provides once the pension trust runs
out of money.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

General Manager Genova stated that he did not know if that scenario was designated or
discussed in the current trust. He asked Bruce Abel to provide additional commentary.

Director Broom commented that he grew up in central Illinois and many companies
recruited from the agricultural areas. He noted that agricultural workers made great
employees because they are familiar with using large equipment and he suggested looking
in that area for new hires.
Director Lubow asked, in relation to the Pension Trust plan, who decided that RTD could
only add funds and inquired if that was a statutory requirement. She added that RTD has
very little power and she did not know why.
General Manager Genova explained that the Union Pension Trust manages the program.
The contribution made by the employee and the employer is negotiated as part of the
Collective Bargaining Agreement. He said that there might be some statutory
requirements in how trusts are managed but that is how RTD’s is set up.
Director Lubow remarked that it might be worthwhile to rethink how RTD interacts with
the pension trust.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that this is an issue for the Collective Bargaining
Agreement. He added that with additional supervision or control comes additional liability
and most companies, when negotiating collective bargaining agreements, try to have as
little as possible other than the contributions.
Director Lubow asked about the temporary wage adjustment and how that would work.
General Manager Genova said that he asked Finance team to look at the financial impact
of raising the operator wage by $1.00 an hour. He said that, if a wage adjustment was
implemented, it would be in place until a new collective bargaining agreement took effect
and it would not be binding or negotiated.
Director Lubow inquired about the request for information and asked if that is something
that RTD is already in the process of working on.

Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that nothing in the
documentation addresses that particular circumstance. He remarked that there are a
variety of alternatives currently under discussion as to what strategies are available to
address certain circumstances.

6.A

General Manager Genova said yes and stated that he had assigned that task to Mr. Abel.
He said that RTD has had many conversations with a variety of companies, and in RTD’s
competitive procurement environment, staff needs to be able to go through a process that
works efficiently.

Director Menten asked if staff had researched the returns from digital advertising formats.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD has a need to be able to communicate
information to its patrons in a more efficient way, particularly around Union Station. He
said that ideally, an advertising firm would partner with a technology corporation and there
would be no cost to RTD.
Director Menten added that in the presentation where it said “increase revenues or explore
options” she does not support a tax increase. She also thanked the General Manager and
staff for minimizing borrowing and debt.
Director Tisdale commented that he is concerned with the sale of assets and easements
and said as a property owner RTD could lease assets rather than selling them. He asked if
staff had considered leasing opposed to outright selling as that would create a continuous
revenue stream.
General Manager Genova noted that staff would add his comments to the appropriate
section.
Director Tisdale also questioned the Board’s use of cash for the near term rather than
issuing additional debt and asked if the “near term” was defined and adopted as a policy
by the Board.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, said by default, yes. She explained that Board policy is 1.2 times the debt
service coverage, and by adopting that amount, RTD will not reach the 1.2 times coverage
until 2023. She said that when Director Tisdale asked if it was by Board policy, it is a
combination of RTD’s current financial position and the direction by the Board to limit as
much debt as possible in the near term. She added that currently RTD is not planning to
issue any debt until 2040 and that debt issuance will be revisited during the APE, SPB,
and the long range plan.

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Archuleta said there are almost 120,000 people in the metro area who do not
speak English very well. He said that they listen to Spanish radio, or watch Spanish TV
and recommended advertising jobs through those mediums.

6.A

Mr. Abel remarked that RTD is working with Front Range Community College in Fort
Collins and their automotive Associates of Arts (AA) program. He said that in the summer
of 2016, RTD had 10 students that participated in the Diesel Technology Training Program
(D-Tech) and at the end of the program 8 students applied for and secured jobs at RTD.
He noted that the programs second year will begin this summer.
General Manager Genova noted that he wanted to specifically thank Ms. McKillop, Mike
Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security & Asset
Management, Lou Cripps, Senior Manager of Asset Management, and the SLT team for
reviewing and compiling ideas for tonight’s presentation.
Director Williams stated that the Denver Metro Chamber has a new Youth Initiative
program and they will be providing student interns to RTD.
Director Francone inquired if RTD had considered some type of food vendor or food sales
at light rail stations. She noted that in Paris, New York, or London, someone could get off
the train on their way home and buy milk and bread.
General Manager Genova stated that concessions do come up from time to time, and RTD
has had minor concession activity but they never panned out. He said that the Romancing
the Bean coffee shop at the Littleton Downtown Station has survived because of
everything else around them and, while RTD has had interest in the past, concessions
have not panned out financially.
Director Francone noted that the food trucks outside of Union Station seem to do well.
General Manager Genova said food trucks would be a good option because they are mobile
but he would have to check with Real Property to see what requests have been submitted.
Director Francone asked if there was a difference between unsolicited requests and
unsolicited proposals.
General Manager Genova indicated that there is a formal process for unsolicited proposals
for Procurement and Real Estate, but there is not a policy for unsolicited requests.

Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Tisdale added that he had spoken with representatives at Arapahoe Community
College and they are interested in setting up an apprenticeship program for RTD, similar to
the program at the Community College of Denver. He added that other community
colleges in the metro area would be tremendous resources for RTD as well.

6.A

Director Francone asked if staff had spoken to Dave Britton at Uber lately as he was eager
to speak to staff.

Director Francone stated that she had been in touch with Roger Vesely, Manager of
Staffing and Recruiting, about recruiting efforts with veterans. She added that her
experience in Colorado has been that there are a number of people whose first language is
English, however, they prefer to receive their communications in Spanish. She noted that
there is a large Hispanic population in Denver and there is an opportunity for RTD to
partner with Univision or Entravision. She further added that the Hispanic Contractors
Association has been a very generous partner with RTD and that is another avenue that
deserves exploration. She noted that she has been working with the Arapahoe
Community College and the Emily Griffith Technical College but said very little has come
from those efforts.
Chair Hoy asked those participating via phone if they had any questions.
Director Anderson said that she likes the idea of advertising and is excited. She agreed
with Director Broom about the agricultural population, however, it is difficult now with the
2.4% unemployment. She said it is going to be difficult and RTD is going to have to pay
competitive wages to attract people to drive busses. She noted that Arvada High School
is a community in transition and they have a program to teach people to become
mechanics. She added that she would speak with staff offline because Arvada High
School is doing good things to train people at the age of 18 to go out and make a living.
She commented that RTD can discuss debt but needs to be cautious with it. She further
added that she is not opposed to going out to the taxpayers for a tax increase in order to
meet current service demands.
Director Sisk stated that HB1242 will not come out of the legislature. He said that he
appreciated the efforts of staff and agreed with the comments made tonight. He said that
the labor force issue is important and RTD will have to find innovative ways to attract new
employees.
Director Deadwyler asked why the Union pension plan contributions are disproportionate.
She noted that most companies match contributions but RTD is far exceeding the match
amount.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD contributes 13% and the employee contributes
5%. He added that matching programs, such as a 401(k) or other similar programs, are
outside of the traditional pension programs.

Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova commented that he had not spoken to Mr. Britton in a while.

6.A

Director Deadwyler commented that during the last collective bargaining negotiation, the
union did not get a raise but they got a bonus instead. She noted that bonuses are taxed
at a higher rate and almost half of that bonus went to the federal government for taxes.

Director Menten remarked that RTD owns property that it does not need, and those
properties should be sold. She said that RTD is not meant to be a landlord and it is not
supposed to land bank to compete with the private sector. She added that, in regards to
the pension percentages, it was written that way because staff wrote the proposal and
had it approved by the Board. She noted that there is a vast difference between salaried
and represented employees.
Director Lubow noted that there is a large Afghan refugee community in the metro area
and RTD should advertise jobs to that group as well.
Director Broom stated that higher pension contributions would mean less tax that the
employee would have to pay.
Chair Hoy commented that, in his experience, an experienced employee is a lot cheaper to
retain than to replace. He said it is cheaper to train and also cheaper in respect to safety.
He stated that RTD’s emphasis needs to be focused on retention instead of recruitment
and added that the 2.4% unemployment rate is considered full employment as people are
usually transferring from one job to another. He noted that the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is working to get people employed and they
may have grants that RTD could get. He added that he appreciated everyone’s
involvement, thoughts, and their time.

III.

Other Matters
General Manager Genova stated that RTD is in the middle of a triannual review. He
remarked that FTA’s contractors are here this week and staff will have an exit briefing
with them on Thursday.
Director Francone noted that last week she attended the Jefferson County Health and
Human Services workshop on Aging Well. She commented that there was no mention of
public transportation and work needs to be done to remind them of the services RTD
offers. She added that she visited the workforce development center for Jefferson County
and there was no information about RTD and they would be a good recruitment source as
well.

Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel stated that the $1,250 was equivalent of giving a 3% raise and it was grossed
up so that each employee netted $1,250.

6.A

Director Solano said he received a call from an Adams County Commissioner about the
North Broadway and US36 Park-n-Ride and inquired if that parking facility would be
eliminated.
Mr. Abel remarked that staff is currently working on the service plan for that area but is
not aware of how that facility may be impacted at this time.

Ms. McKillop explained that RTD would need at least $50 million but probably closer to
$75 million. She noted that the actual dollar amount and acreage depend on several
things, and since RTD has great needs, the structure would most likely have to be
financed.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 25, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked what dollar figure and acreage is needed for a new bus facility.

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, May 2, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Remote

5:16 PM
5:29 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

4:52 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:27 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

5:14 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:30 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:08 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:19 PM
5:00 PM
Packet Pg. 28

6.B

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Mark Baudermann, Shirley Bennett, Susan Cohen, Lou
Cripps, Nate Currey, Jeet Desai, Nic Dial, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, David Genova, Bob
Grado, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson,
Barbara McManus, John McKay, Doug MacLeod, Mike Meader, TaiShrae Parish, Mike Peek, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Lindsey Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman, Gary Turnquist, Bill Van
Meter, Ashland Vaughn

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, William Gross, Kent Moorman, Katie
Oppenheimer, Christian Reitter, Grace Rouse, Jake Rosencranz, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Tim Walker, Jeff Whiteman

B. Recommended Actions

• Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint Venture Contract for FasTracks
Construction Management Support Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a contract amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture
for Construction Management Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for
FasTracks, increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value through July 14,
2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this award is included in the 2016
Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects where
CMSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific
projects in future year capital budgets.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs & Facilities, said that this contract is for the TriunityHill Joint Venture. He noted that this contract will not add
more time, but additional funding to retain institutional
knowledge. He stated that funds are available in the Annual
Program Evaluation (APE) and the work that these consultants
do is technical. He added that while RTD can out-build and
out-design anyone on a single project, RTD cannot do multiple
projects at the same time. He noted that Triunity-Hill is
Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Anderson and Deadwyler participated via phone.

6.B

Director Menten asked for an explanation about the TOD
support that Triunity-Hill provides.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated
that RTD uses Triunity-Hill’s subcontractors with specialties in
land use and real property valuation to help RTD to value,
negotiate, and assess potential TOD deals. He noted that the
specialties in land use, real estate valuations, and economic
analysis in relation to TOD assessments are beneficial to RTD.
Director Menten stated that she would be a no vote on this
item.
Director Francone asked if the amount already paid out to
Triunity-Hill is $14 million.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that staff has an authorization of
$15.1 million, and to date Triunity-Hill has been paid
$14,353,891.
Director Francone inquired how the $19 million increase was
determined.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that during the APE every year staff
reviews the support that is required to manage the various
projects. He said that staff looks at the support needed by
role and then identifies the key players that are associated
with that role. He noted that the resource need was figured
through 2020 and that is how staff determined the $19 million
figure. He added that the figure is based on the number of
individuals RTD is employing from the consultants and their
unit rate along with the hours needed to complete the tasks.
Director Francone added that there was a sentence in the
Board Report that she did not understand. She noted that
Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

working on the North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
(SERE), and they are also providing design build support to the
design build office, project control support across the system
including document control, Transit Oriented Development
(TOD) support for the Planning Department, and some of the
planning and modeling support for RTD. He stated that staff
wants the Board to authorize additional funding to the contract
and added that Triunity-Hill Joint Venture is 51% DBE
managing partner and the goal of 27% has been exceeded to
49.64%.

6.B

under the Financial Impact heading it stated, “Funding for the
future work program is included in the 2016 Annual Program
Evaluation for 2018-2020…”.

Director Sisk said that the amounts seem to be increasing over
the years at a significant rate. He asked if the funds were
coming out of the FasTracks budget.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that was correct.
Director Sisk commented that he was under the impression
that RTD had a TOD staff. He asked if that department was
so buried with work that it could not take on the additional
work that Triunity-Hill is doing.
Mr. Van Meter stated that RTD’s TOD staff is very talented,
but they lack certain specialties in terms of understanding
some of the complex deals that RTD is considering, including
skillsets related to land valuations and analysis. He noted that
Triunity-Hill supplements in those specialty areas where it
would not be cost effective for RTD to bring in full time staff.
Director Sisk remarked that RTD needs to have an exit
strategy in terms of going forward as $19 million is a lot of
money.
Mr. Stopplecamp indicated that using contractors is RTD’s exit
strategy. He noted that in the height of the of the FasTracks
program RTD had 300 contractors working as RTD staff and
RTD was spending $12 million a year with Jacobs
Engineering. He stated that at this time staff is asking for $6
million a year, which is half of what RTD was spending
annually, and noted that as projects are ramping down RTD is
drastically reducing staff that is not needed.
Director Folska inquired about the Quality of Life Study.
Mr. Van Meter stated that the Quality of Life Report is an
annual report that RTD has prepared since 2006. He
commented that the report tracks metrics in terms of the
Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Stopplecamp indicated that was correct. He noted that
the APE runs for the duration of the project until 2044. He
added that if RTD does not need the money then it will not be
spent. He stated that all funds spent are reviewed and
tracked.

6.B

impact that FasTracks has on the community, from
transportation impacts to land use, to safety and security, and
economics. He said that every three to four years RTD does a
comprehensive data analysis, and for the other years RTD
prepares a high level report on the key measures that impact
the community in large. He added that Triunity-Hill and its
contractors are tasked to provide data collection and analysis
to support the creation of the Quality of Life Report.

Mr. Van Meter said he could not recall the exact figure but
said Jacobs Engineering previously created the report under
their contract.
Director Folska stated that it is important to understand the
quality of life aspects FasTracks has on the public. She
inquired if the report was being used by the Mobility Choice
effort as well as other municipalities and agencies.
Mr. Van Meter remarked that the report is available on RTD’s
website and staff distributes the report to others as well.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if Directors Anderson and
Deadwyler had any questions.
Director Deadwyler commented that she has had concerns
over the past six years with the Jacobs contract, and $19
million is a lot of money, therefore she would be a no vote.
Director Anderson remarked that $19 million is a lot of money,
but when that amount is broken down to $6 million a year,
and only using those funds when needed, it sheds a different
light on the contract. She added that it is much more efficient
and the most effective way to take care of these issues, so
she would be voting in support of this item.

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked how much that report will cost and who
did it before.

6.B

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 4]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale,
Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone, Ken Mihalik, Natalie
Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

Consultants (FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount
with Front Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of
$3,173,202. This will result in a total contract not-to-exceed authorization
of $67,482,759 and will provide funding through the remainder of 2017.
Funds for the contract authorization are included in the specific project
budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to extend the contract
completion date from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and
increase the total contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract
authorization of $70,982,759. Funding for this scope is included in the
2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where
FRSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital
budget.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that this is the second group of
outside consultants that supports RTD staff. He said that this
will take care of the system elements such as the overhead
catenary system (OCS), the signal systems, ticket vending
machines (TVM), at-grade crossings, vehicles, and anything
else that has electricity or moving equipment falls under this
contract. He noted that RTD staff oversees integration and
the TVM’s and will bring in FRSC staff to ensure that the
system elements are taken care of. He remarked that the
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Approval of increased Contract Authorization to Front Range Systems

current contract runs out at the end of the year, and to get
through the end of the year, it will cost $3.1 million for
additional staff. He added that, going into next year, staff
would like to extend the contract to cover SERE support and
Northwest Rail, to close out the Eagle P3, and to work on the
boltsers for the commuter rail fleet. He indicated that this is
the same firm that is doing the work for Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) and they will
help RTD with the modifications to the vehicles here. He
added that they have worked on the Transportation Expansion
Project (T-REX), the W Line, the R Line, Eagle P3, SERE, and
North Metro and they also provide system support for the base
system. He remarked that staff wants to keep the key
individuals on board and noted that RTD will go out for a
separate request for proposal (RFP) in May for a replacement
for FRSC starting at the end of this year.
Director Folska said it seems like RTD has to extend these
contracts because the people we hired as the “best value”
have delayed projects. She asked if RTD would be reimbursed
by the contractors.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that typically RTD absorbs the cost of
extended overhead.
Director Folska asked why RTD had not hired another
consultant to replace FRSC yet.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD is in the process but there
are some projects that will be wrapping up on the specialized
service the first part of next year and staff does not want to
lose the institutional knowledge from the people that have
been working on the project for years.
Director Mihalik indicated that stated twice in the report, it
says that FRSC will help with other government agencies and
asked if those government agencies were helping pay for the
cost of the work or if they would be receiving the work
product at no charge.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that the other government entities
are primarily the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA), and the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission (PUC). He indicated that they would not
be receiving a product but instead helping RTD to coordinate
Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.B

6.B

and ensure that RTD is providing the product that they need in
order to improve the system.

Mr. Stopplecamp explained that there would be an update
later in the meeting and stated that certain elements will go
beyond 2018. He said that at this time staff is planning to
use FRSC for work they are currently doing and, as those
individuals transition off the project, the new firm will come on
board and take care of it.
Director Walker commented that, when the new RFP is issued,
it is possible that FRSC could win. He stated that he
recognizes the need for consultants and said he would be
supporting this item.
Director Francone remarked that staff anticipates that this
type of support is needed beyond 2018 and asked why the
contract was only extended for one year.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that staff is reviewing the on call
contract for the entire system. He noted that, after staff sat
down with Procurement, it made sense to bid out the work
again. He added that FRSC has been with RTD for 12 years
and there were concerns that RTD was not getting the best
value. He commented that he has faith in FRSC but said it is
time to compare them to the rest of the industry.
Director Francone said that it is inconsistent to say that RTD
wants to retain institutional knowledge but then say that the
agency needs the best value for next year.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that, as RTD does base system
projects, staff will be bringing consultants to fill those roles.
He noted that the system elements for SERE and North Metro
should be taken care of by the end of 2018. He added that
FRSC will also be on hand to close out the University of
Colorado A Line, B Line, G Line, and R Line through 2018.
Director Francone asked if this group would shrink significantly
by the end of 2018.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano asked if FRSC is consulting on the North
Metro Line.

6.B

Mr. Stopplecamp confirmed that RTD’s goal is to replace
consultant roles with RTD employees as projects are closed
out.

Mr. Stopplecamp explained that, when the new firm is hired,
they will work for RTD for a five-year term to provide support
on the FasTracks and base systems. He noted that RTD is
hiring a firm, not individuals, but RTD needs a firm that has
the resources to pull people in to augment staff.
Director Deadwyler stated that she would be voting yes on
this item.
Director Anderson added that she too would be supporting this
item. She said that RTD cannot have it both ways and it is
good that staff is going to ask for new bids for this work after
a long period of time to ensure that RTD is still getting a good
deal.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
AWAY:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks
Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to extend the
contract completion date from June 30, 2017 to December 31, 2019.
Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific
projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future year
scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019
in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and will be
appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital budgets.
Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler asked how long the new contractors
would work for RTD.

6.B

Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that the Jacobs extension is for
specialized services for individuals with institutional
knowledge. The current Jacobs contract ends July 2017 and
the two elements that they are uniquely positioned for are
Surveying and Right of Way (ROW). He added that staff is not
asking for additional funds, but instead to extend the contract
through 2019.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker,
Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler

REMOTE:

Committee Chair Lubow declared that the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Rail~Volution Conference Planning Update
Mr. Van Meter stated that Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities, would provide a brief update on Rail~Volution that RTD will
be hosting later this year.
Mr. Sirois remarked that the conference is focused on communities ranging
from advocacy for transit, to TOD, to community engagement. The
conference began in 1995 and RTD has been a partner member since the
late 1990s. He stated that typically, there are 1,200-1,500 participants and
RTD has formed a local host committee. He said that the conference’s 25
mobile workshops are being coordinated with local communities so there will
be an extensive opportunity to get out and see the system. He noted that
staff is focusing on geographic diversity as well as certain themes such as
affordable housing, bike infrastructure, and highlighting infrastructure
progress. In addition, staff is trying to highlight the progress between
Denver in 2000, when RTD last hosted the conference, and Denver today.
Mr. Sirois said the opening reception will be held at Union Station on
Sunday, September 17th and there will be volunteers available to give tours
Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker seconded the motion.

6.B

Mr. Sirois stated that registration for the conference will open in early June,
and there will be reduced-cost registrations available for the Board. He
added that the finalized conference sessions will be posted in late July or
early August, and staff is recruiting a diverse set of volunteers to help during
the conference.
Committee Chair Lubow asked if the local hosts are required to contribute
funds to the conference.
Mr. Sirois remarked that RTD has budgeted $115,000 and staff will also
fundraise for sponsorship dollars.
Committee Chair Lubow inquired as to what the Board’s responsibility would
be during the conference.
Mr. Sirois indicated that the Board could become volunteers, but he
recommended that the Board attend the conference as well as the mobile
workshops. He noted that the conference would provide a diverse
perspective and is very different compared to an American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) conference.
Director Walker commented that Rail~Volution is a lot different than APTA.
He added that he would be opening his home to people that need help
getting here and said that it is one of the better conferences available for
dialogue.
Director Williams noted that staff should reach out to Denver Public Schools
(DPS) for volunteers.
Director Francone stated that if RTD asks schools for volunteers, they
should include Jefferson County schools as well. She asked in addition to
the host sponsors whether RTD asked any local jurisdictions to participate.
Mr. Sirois indicated they were invited.
Director Menten inquired if the local host committee sponsors wrote a check
for their sponsorship.
Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

of Union Station. He noted that the conference will have a total of 75
workshops will touch on a variety of topics ranging from advocating for
transit to implementing TOD and there will be a unique “local day” event
that will focus of local issues. He added that there will also be preconference activities for attendees to participate in that would include either
a Rockies game, craft brewery tour, downtown scavenger hunt, hike in
Boulder, or a central bike tour.

6.B

Mr. Sirois said no, to be on the local host committee they were not required
to write a check, but they were asked to contribute to the conference.

Mr. Sirois commented that most of the entities on the sponsor list are
private, but there are some public entities, non-profits, and foundations as
well. He noted that some of the foundations have contributed funds for
scholarships, such as the Denver Health Foundation that committed $5,000
for people to attend the conference. He added that RTD does not expect
financial contributions from the non-profit sector as they have limited
budgets.
Director Deadwyler stated that she wants RTD to solicit volunteers from the
community. She added that RTD should also consider the weather for the
Union Station reception and be prepared for any weather conditions.
Mr. Sirois remarked that staff is trying to get community members involved
in the workshops as they could provide unique perspectives. He noted that
an interesting tour that is currently proposed is to experience what it is like
to be a single mother who uses transit to get to daycare and other places.
He also stated that staff is securing a tent for the outside portion of the
reception to help protect from any weather issues.
Director Menten asked what other transit agencies have spent when they
hosted Rail~Volution.
Mr. Sirois stated that he reached out to the last two hosts, Dallas Area
Rapid Transit (DART) and the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART), and both had
similar budgeted amounts. He indicated that both spent close to $115,000
and they both raised additional sponsorship dollars than they had planned,
which meant they could save some of their budgeted funds.

• North Metro
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that he and Ashland Vaughn, Project ManagerEngineering, would present the update for the North Metro Line. Mr.
Stopplecamp remarked that in 2013 the economy changed and RTD did not
have the funding or method of building to build out the North Metro corridor.
He commented that at best estimates RTD determined that the line could be
built out to 72nd Avenue. He noted that in 2013 Regional Rail Partners
(RRP), a joint venture between Balfour Beatty and Graham Construction &
Management Inc., submitted an unsolicited proposal to build out the North
Metro Line. He noted that RRP was confident that they could get farther
than 72nd Avenue. He stated that RTD reviewed their proposal and from
that staff developed a request for proposal (RFP). He said that the task took
Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked if non-profit entities were using tax payer dollars to
contribute to the conference.

6.B

Mr. Stopplecamp indicated that the strengths for RRP were that several of
their team members came off of the Eagle project and they knew what RTD
and Denver Transit Partners (DPT) expected and were knowledgeable of
those interactions. He commented that RRP committed to build up to 124th
with an option to the end of the line and said that they knew what needed
to be done and how to make it happen. He remarked that RTD took DTP
through the proposal process and gave a notice to proceed in December of
2013 to construct the North Metro corridor with a scheduled completion
date of January 2018.
Mr. Stopplecamp commented that RRP began work on the design process
and in early 2014 provided RTD with a schedule that corroborated the
completion for January 2018. He noted that, in the last few months before
RTD issued the contract to RRP, staff worked with them to value engineer
the project. He stated that the project was stretched from 72nd to 124th in
that timeframe, realizing that several tasks would need to be turned over to
RTD after the project completed.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that RTD staffed up to provide oversight and
verification of the project and explained that the RTD project team is not
contractually permitted to dictate means and method. Since RTD cannot tell
RRP how to build the track, staff articulates that it must be built according
to FRA standards from point A to point B. He noted that the design took
more time than was originally scheduled, but it was assumed that time could
have been made up during construction. RTD staff watched the project very
closely, and in April 2016 staff began to see that construction was not
progressing as expected, at which time staff requested a recovery schedule.
By July, there were significant concerns that the project was slipping but
RRP still had had time to turn the project over to RTD in 2018.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that by November 2016 staff had yet to receive
a recovery schedule after numerous requests and, through the escalation
process, RTD staff met with RRP and reiterated concerns over the project.
He said the joint venture board agreed to provide an updated schedule but
noted that the updated schedule was not received until April 15, 2017. He
stated that RTD staff has reviewed the schedule and found several logic
errors, and at that time, staff could not predict when the construction side
of the project would be completed. He added that staff has been working
with the contractor since RTD received the updated schedule, and they are
reviewing every element of the schedule and making sure that the logic is
tied together. He stated for example that utilities cannot be added to a
grade that is not prepared. In some cases, the contractor is building the
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

a little more than three months and two firms bid on the project with the
defined dollars and scope.

6.B

wall, putting in the utilities, and then adding the dirt, versus building the
wall, adding the dirt, then installing the utilities.

Mr. Stopplecamp added that staff has ramped up resources and put more
pressure on the contractor. He said that staff’s goal is to knock out the
previous items as fast as possible and to come back to the Board with a
viable schedule, and at that time staff will present recommendations for the
next steps and will also discuss the operations and maintenance options for
that corridor. He summarized that, the project is moving forward as one
team, and RTD is providing additional resources to help RRP with the
schedule and project phasing. He noted that he and the General Manager
have escalated a lot of these items to the joint venture board and stated
there will also be an Elected Officials Briefing on May 18, 2017, to provide
project updates.
Director Folska commented that this is a huge undertaking and a complex
project. She inquired if RTD extended all of the consulting contracts the
Board just approved because RRP was behind schedule and asked why RTD
was paying for their illogical sequence of events.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD is not paying for their illogical sequence of
events at this time. He remarked that Director Folska is correct in that RTD
is putting additional resources on this project due to RRP’s failure to
complete the project on time.
Director Folska asked if this meant that RRP was in violation of their
contract.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that was correct.
Director Williams questioned if there was any type of penalty for RRP’s
delayed response in providing an updated schedule and asked what actions
RTD could do in return.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that there is no penalty for taking a delay on the
contract. He noted that RTD has delayed some of their payments, but if
RRP does not meet the January 2018 date, liquidated damages are only
$300,000. He indicated that their incentive, if they are found to be in
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that the next step is to figure out the schedule and
the logic and how all of the tasks are tied together. He explained that staff
wants to identify the critical path and try and reduce the timeframe. He
added that, in order to ensure all major components have been identified,
staff has brought on additional support to review where the project is and
where it needs to go to get back on track.

6.B

breach of contract and they are responsible for the delays, would be the
$1.5 million a month labor overhead costs.

Director Francone reiterated that RRP did not respond for a year and was
dismayed that staff knew about the ongoing issue but the Board was just
hearing about it.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that in July 2016 RTD staff started to see that
RRP was significantly behind schedule, which is when staff escalated the
issue through the formal process and asked for the recovery schedule. He
stated that the reason staff held off informing the Board is because staff is
unaware of the magnitude of the issues. He commented that Mr. Vaughn’s
team is working through back channels, and RTD staff is performing due
diligence. He added that RTD has not added any additional scope of work to
the contractor and staff is using on-call contractors instead.
Director Francone said that staff should make sure RRP finishes the work
they were contracted to do and not sign off on it until it is done.
Mr. Stopplecamp reiterated that at this time staff does not believe that the
North Metro Line will be in service in 2018.
Director Tisdale stated that his concern is that, if RTD inserts itself into the
process, RRP could say that they are behind schedule because of RTD’s
interference.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that RTD is not inserting itself into their process,
but staff is working on a parallel process. He noted that if staff directs RRP,
it will be through a contract amendment, and if the deliverable schedule is
changed, it will also be done through an agreement with the contractor. He
noted that staff does not want to direct RRP, but they will point out items
that are missing. He added that staff is very careful, and Mr. Vaughn is the
only staff member that corresponds with the contractor as he is the project
manager. He further noted that staff cannot allow RTD to jeopardize the
commitments that RRP made at the very beginning.
Mr. Vaughn noted that, if RTD directs the contractor, that would change
RTD’s risk profile dramatically. He added that RTD is not directing but
rather indicating that the contract outlines certain requirements that RRP
must fulfill.
Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Vaughn added that RTD has issued non-conformances through the
contract and that is how RTD is able to withholds funds. He stated that
work is still going on, but it is a significant amount of funds that adds up.
He stated that staff is reviewing the recovery schedule to determine how to
get back on track.

6.B

Director Broom asked what kind of excuses staff has received to date and
further inquired if RRP had lost key personnel.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that he would rather not discuss their position in
this forum but said that RTD is not at fault.

Mr. Stopplecamp indicated that staff has looked at plan B and plan C, which
is why staff needed the updated recovery schedule in order to develop
possible solutions.
Director Solano asked if any of the problems are in relation to the prime
contractor not overseeing the subcontractors.
Mr. Vaughn commented that that was one of the issues.
Director Archuleta asked what type of issues the contractor was having.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that it relayed to the sequencing of work. He noted
that they are not moving into the windows of opportunity or phasing work
accordingly.
Mr. Vaughn added that the design approval is the main issue. He remarked
that all of the entities require design review and the crux of the issue is
getting the design approvals in a timely fashion.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that, if RRP would have followed the schedule from
2014, the project would have been completed on time.
Director Menten stated that she does not have the confidence in where this
project is going and that is why she voted no on the first two action items.
Director Walker commented that some slippage is controllable and some is
not. He noted that design review is typically the reason for a project’s delay
and the conflict is usually that what is submitted is either incomplete or
inaccurate.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that RTD is engaging with various entities to push
the project through to completion.
Chair Hoy remarked that the Board is very disappointed, no one more than
himself. He said that he would have liked to be on the first train as a
Director and asked if anyone from RRP was in the audience tonight.
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom asked if staff has a plan B if RRP cannot complete the
project in a timely manner.

6.B

Mr. Stopplecamp commented that RRP representatives were notified that
staff would be discussing the North Metro Line during the committee
meeting but did not attend.

Director Anderson noted that this situation is akin to a bad marriage with a
bad pre-nuptial agreement. She said that there is a child involved, the North
Metro Line, and RTD needs to make sure that a good outcome comes out of
this mess. She added that RTD and RRP need to work with local
governments to help get the line opened in a timely manner. She noted that
this situation is regretful but she trusts staff will be able to work through the
issue. She stated that, while the line may not open in time, RTD and RRP
need to keep working to get the job done.
Director Deadwyler indicated that it is obvious that this project will not finish
on time and asked if RTD was prepared to go over budget to ensure the
project is completed.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that a 2% contingency was built into the project
budget. He said that this project is the tightest that RTD has ever had and
the value engineering cost cutting measure to ensure the North Metro Line
could get to 124th work on paper. He noted that, at this time, RTD does not
know what the additional costs will be and staff is managing the project the
best that they can.
Director Folska acknowledged that the most expensive part of the line is
from 72nd to 124th. She stated that Balfour Beatty is also working on the
SERE, which is the most expensive extension, and asked what assurances
they provided to deliver on-time and on budget.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that the quality of work on SERE is fantastic. He
added that they are ahead of schedule and under budget. He noted that the
extension work is a success story, and Balfour Beatty by themselves have
proven that they can do the job.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska stated that she had recently learned that Chief John Tarbert had
retired and remarked that he was a great addition to RTD.
Committee Chair Lubow noted that there has been a flurry of articles coming out of
Longmont about the lack of rail. She said that she is trying to get a motion put
Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow indicated that this feels messy and she would have
appreciated if the Board would have been informed earlier. She added that
there are probably a lot of lessons learned and there might have been better
ways to deal with RRP, including having a tighter contract.

6.B

General Manager Genova commented that he had sent an email to the Board on
Friday, April 28th about the FRA extension for the University of Colorado A Line and
B Line and said that the new extension is until July 30, 2017. He noted that the
University of Colorado A Line on-time performance was 91.2% year to date and
95% for the month of April. He added that, earlier that same day, the FRA gave
permission for limited testing of the G Line. He stated that this is exciting news
and RTD will have to work with the PUC during the testing. He noted that the
testing will be limited to a few trains a day and staff will keep the stakeholders
updated.
Director Menten asked if the General Manager had spoken to Wheat Ridge about
the testing for the G Line.
General Manager Genova remarked that he had sent emails to the Mayor and City
Manager of both Wheat Ridge and Arvada as well as the Mayor of Denver. He
noted that he heard back from Mayor Marc Williams of Arvada and City Manager
Patrick Goff of Wheat Ridge.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 6, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:46 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

together with the Board to support finishing FasTracks as soon as possible and is
working on the steps to get that completed.

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 2, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 7:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
7:55 PM
7:51 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Remote
Present

7:56 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:54 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:49 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:54 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:51 PM
7:53 PM
7:54 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:54 PM
Packet Pg. 46

6.C

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Mark Baudermann, Shirley Bennett, Susan Cohen, Lou
Cripps, Nate Currey, Jeet Desai, Nic Dial, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, David Genova, Bob
Grado, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson, Doug
MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Mike Peek, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Lindsey Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman, Gary Turnquist, Bill Van
Meter, Ashland Vaughn

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, William Gross, Kent Moorman, Katie
Oppenheimer, Christian Reitter, Grace Rouse, Jake Rozencranz, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Tim Walker, Jeff Whiteman

B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through
June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000,
pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale stated that BBMK had been
under its current contract with RTD for legislative liaison
services since July 2013 and that the motion was to extend
the contract by one additional and final year.
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, said that
BBMK has done a great job for RTD and has represented the
agency at the Capitol since 1998. She said BBMK did an
excellent job looking out for bills that could impact RTD and
stated that BBMK has great relationships with legislators,
which shows in the way they represent RTD.
Director Menten asked whether members of BBMK contribute
to candidates in RTD races.
Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Anderson was absent.

6.C

Jenifer Brandeberry, BBMK, said that they have contributed.
Director Menten said she could not resist asking how many
people at the table had contributed against her campaign.

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale stated that he took Director
Menten’s question in jest and that there was no inappropriate
conduct undertaken or implied.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, said that he had no additional updates on
the items contained in the Board packet. He stated that there had been a
good response for Citizens Advocacy Committee (CAC) vacancy
applications. He noted that the Colorado Municipal League Conference
would begin on June 20, 2017, in Breckenridge, Colorado, and stated CRL
Associates would be in attendance. He said the Colorado Counties, Inc.,
Conference was also scheduled but did not state the date. He said that
would defer to Ms. Brandeberry to discuss House Bill 17-1242, which died
in committee.
Director Walker asked Mr. Sherman whether he had communicated with
Denver’s general obligation (GO) bond committee.
Mr. Sherman stated that he had followed their discussions and said he
expected the three major associated committees to put out reports over next
few weeks.
Director Walker said the transportation and mobility committee he sits on
would be meeting on May 11, 2017, and the committee would then report
Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, offered a point of order,
stating that there are laws protecting people from being asked
to provide information on certain activity.

6.C

their findings. He said the committee’s findings would be favorable to bus
and rail operations and would include improvements for transit along Colfax
and the 16th Street Mall.
Mr. Sherman said that the amount of the bond issue would be increasing
significantly, opening up significant room for projects. He said that the City
and County of Denver was under pressure and that half of the projects
submitted related to transportation.

Mr. Sherman said that their meetings have a 15-minute meet and greet
period but stated the meetings do not typically include a segment for public
input. He said that Director Tisdale attends the meetings and that RTD
Directors are welcome to participate.
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale said that it is an open meeting but noted there
is no time set aside for public comment.
Director Lubow said that the meeting she attended was open to the public in
the morning but was not open for the rest of the day.
Mr. Sherman said the caucus does not allow public participation in their
annual retreat, the meeting Director Lubow attended, but noted that the
retreat was the only meeting during which the public is not invited to attend.
Director Francone said that she hoped CAC members would fill some of the
volunteer spots during the Rail~Volution Conference.
Director Broom asked whether there are any ballot measures put forth by
petition that the Board should be aware of.
Mr. Sherman responded that, at that point, he was not aware of any
measures likely to come forward.

• State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna
Ms. Brandeberry stated that the General Assembly had seven days left in the
2017 regular session. She said that transportation funding has been at top
of the conversation in the Capitol and that the premier transportation bill did
not make it out of committee. She said that SB17-303, by Senators Neville
and Cooke, was introduced after the defeat of HB17-1242 and that SB303
passed out of the Senate Finance Committee on a 3-2 vote. She stated that
the bill allocates 10% of state sales and use tax for bonding for the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT). She noted SB303 had a high
likelihood of passing the Senate but had no Democratic sponsors in the
Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked whether the Metro Mayors Caucus meeting would
include a public component.

House at that time. She stated that the bill allowed for amendments because
of its broad title. She said another bill, SB17-267, which deals with hospital
provider fee, was also on the calendar. She said that bill’s sponsor, Senator
Sonnenberg, had indicated a portion of the money from the bill would allow
for certificates of participation (COPs) for transportation funding. She
mentioned that SB303 did not include funding for local or multi-modal
projects but rather would fund CDOT priority projects. She said SB267 in its
current form would allow room for local and multi-modal projects, because
COPs have more room for flexibility. She noted that BBMK monitors bills
with a direct financial impact to RTD and stated that most if not all of the
tax-related bills would die. She responded to Director Broom’s earlier
question about ballot measures and stated that, though several initiative
titles have been filed with the Title Board, the reality of a group coming
together to enact those initiatives is yet to be determined. She said people
file a lot of initiative ideas but stated those measures would not necessarily
gain financial backing or appear on the ballot.
Director Lubow said she had the impression that there were residual
MPACT64 discussions taking place and that people were aware the
referendum would be a hard sell. She said that she saw the ballot initiatives
as a fall back measure that had a chance of passage because people
understand transportation issues must be dealt with.
Ms. Brandeberry said that an initiative may happen but that her firm has not
engaged in the discussion, because BBMK does not want to give legislators
reason to not support legislation. She said the initiative proponents and
Metro Mayors have made it clear that they will act if the legislature cannot.
Mr. Sherman said that a number of titles that have been filed and that the
coalition is waiting to see what happens in final days of the legislative
session to determine if 2017 is a feasible time frame or if the discussion
may shift toward 2018.
Director Tisdale asked whether there is any possibility of a form of HB1242
being resurrected in the last days of session.
Ms. Brandeberry noted that a bill can be passed through the legislature in
three days once the House and Senate rules are waived but stated that it
was unlikely for that to happen. She said the title of SB267 was broad
enough to allow the bill to be amended to include bonding language. She
said there were only two bills in the system at that point that could impact
transportation funding and that both Senate and House sponsors were
hoping for between $1.8 and $2 billion in COP issues. She noted that
SB267 was still in the Senate and stated that the only major issue that has
passed to date during the session was HB17-1279, regarding informed
consent for construction defects. She said that other major bills, including
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

the state budget and school finance bills, had not been passed and the
legislature had a lot of work to do in only seven days.

Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, said that the federal government passed a
significant FY2017 appropriations measure that he had mentioned in the
previous month’s meeting. He said the bill was fairly robust and funded
transportation among other things. He stated the bills should be finalized by
May 5, 2017. He said that RTD received $150 million toward the Eagle P3
project, though RTD had requested $167 million. As a result, Mr. Dino said
that RTD would request an additional $17 million in funding on top of the
original $63 million slated to be requested for 2018. He said there had been
little development on President Trump’s infrastructure proposal, because the
administration would first need to pass a health care bill and then a tax
reform package in order to fund the infrastructure measure. He said there
had been some discussion of a new federal health care bill but noted there
was not a lot of hope for the measure to pass. He noted the President
offered a limited proposal for a new health care bill and that Secretary of
Transportation Elaine Chao reiterated the administration’s hopes of putting
forth an infrastructure plan. He said the President initially stated he would
like to see increase in the federal gas tax, the proceeds of which would be
used solely to fund roads, but Mr. Dino noted the White House press
secretary walked that statement back.
Director Folska said that higher gas prices yield an increase in ridership. She
said a gas tax does two things: raise revenue for RTD and increasing
ridership. She said that $4.00 seems to be the sweet spot for a gallon of
gasoline and stated that Europe has great infrastructure because of high gas
taxes.
Director Broom asked whether the $200 million Mr. Dino spoke of would
require a four-to-one match to reach $1 billion.
Mr. Dino said that the targeting of an infrastructure package of $1 trillion
would anticipate a reduction in the regulatory burden that existing projects
are facing, which would allow the expenditure of funds that have already
been authorized or appropriated but are being held up by regulatory
entanglements. He said that the package would also involve public private
partnerships, which can be challenging to get off the ground quickly. He said
that an infrastructure package of $1 trillion would probably amount to $200
billion in hard money from the federal government at one time.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

6.C

E. Next Meeting Date - June 6, 2017
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 2, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 8:26 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 52

6.D

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 16, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
5:24 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Absent
Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:37 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:32 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:31 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:34 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:26 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:20 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Absent

5:30 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Remote
Absent
Packet Pg. 53

6.D

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rofl Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell,
Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Paul
DesRocher, Eric Dunham, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg,
Kim Kinnison, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug
MacLeod, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Eric
Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood.

Public Present:

Megan Arellano, Matt Marino, Mike Newman, John Thompson,
Cheryl Wallace

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Centennial Lyft Project
Bruce Abel, acting Chief Operating Officer, started off the meeting by
congratulating the APTA RTD team that won the Top Honors at the 2017
International Bus Rodeo. He stated that they will be recognized at May’s
Board Meeting.
Mr. Abel introduced Jeff Becker, Senior Manager of Service Development, to
talk about the Centennial Lyft project. Mr. Becker stated that in early 2016
the City of Centennial Innovation Team initiated the development of a
first/last mile pilot project at the Dry Creek Light Rail station. He explained
how the team wanted to replace the RTD Call-n-Ride with Lyft. The City of
Centennial contracted with Lyft and offered both Lyft and Call-n-Ride to
customers as part of the first/last mile plan. He stated that in conjunction
with providing this new service to riders the City of Centennial also hired a
consultant to help develop a plan for this service.
Mr. Becker stated that the City of Centennial’s original estimate of how
many trips would be provided by Lyft was 300 trips per day; though the
total amount of Lyft trips for the six-month period averaged out to be 1,302
or approximately 10 trips a day. He stated that each trip averaged $4.70,
which was a discounted rate from Lyft. He said that the City of Centennial
also had to provide ADA transportation and contracted with Via Mobility to
provide lift-equipped vans for approximately 13.5 hours per day, totaling
$47,000 for six months.

Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Archuleta, Solano, and Williams were absent. Director Walker participated via
phone.

6.D

Director Folska asked if RTD makes a contribution to any first/last mile
programs.

Director Menten stated that she believes that there is a lot of potential in
these pilot programs. She asked if Jeff could provide her some information
regarding the originating data from DRCOG that provided the residency
stats.
Mr. Becker stated that information can be found as part of the municipality
census data.
Director Broom asked if RTD gets any stats regarding how many people ride
the Fitz Simmons shuttle service.
Mr. Becker said that he believes there were about 100 people riding it per
day, but that is not current. He will report back to Director Broom on the
current numbers.
Director Lubow asked what the City of Centennial is thinking about doing
with this program, moving forward.
Mr. Becker stated that he believes they would like to try it some more but he
is unsure what City Council wants to do.
Mr. Abel stated that Daniel Hutton, the program coordinator for the
Centennial Lyft pilot program, is now working for Denver South Economic
Development. He stated that RTD had been in conversations with Denver
South Economic Development on partnering in the future.
Director Lubow asked if we are looking at future additional pilot projects.
Mr. Abel stated that RTD is working with a lot of different entities on
potential upcoming projects; no concrete proposals but definitely a lot of
conversations.
Mr. Becker gave an example of a potential partnership with Dry Creek where
RTD could partner with Lyft or another carrier to assist with transportation
needs during peak/non-peak times.

Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Becker stated said that the Lone Tree Link is funded by Charles Schwab,
Level 3 Communications, Sky Ridge Medical Center, and the City of
Lonetree. He said that RTD subsidizes service at Dry Creek. Bruce Abel
added that RTD provided logistical support to the Centennial program but did
not provide any financial support.

6.D

Director Francone asked if Lyft was able to provide the same service that
Call-n-Ride offers for a cheaper rate.

Chair Hoy stated that there are a lot of conversations about the on-demand
service. He stated that it is important for the City of Centennial to figure out
why their pilot program did not have the success they had hoped for. He
stressed how a report would be extremely helpful in assessing the lessons
learned from this program.
Mr. Abel replied that the City of Centennial is currently doing a study on the
program. General Manager Genova also mentioned that the call center was
not factored into the cost of delivery. He said that technology accessibility
to assist in scheduling the rides also needs to be considered.

• Bus Network Analysis Potential Transit Priority
Mr. Bruce Abel explained that RTD’s service development group conducted a
study to identify areas where RTD could identify system slowdowns and
areas where RTD can benefit from system improvements. He said Mr.
Becker would present findings in the study.
Mr. Becker said that reliability was a main concern found in the study.
He said one way to improve reliability is to give buses priority in the street
right-of-way and in order to do this RTD would need to work closely with
their municipality partners. He explained that RTD previously hired a
consultant to create an analysis to help RTD identify the areas where it
would be most beneficial. He said the study was conducted throughout a
40,000 block radius and it looked at speed as a measure of delay and
reliability along with passenger load to find out where RTD has the most
transit users and where the study would benefit the most.
Bus Network Analysis for Potential Transit Priority
Study Goals
 Identify and prioritize corridors for transit priorities
 Transit priorities will:
o Increase bus service speeds and reduce bus delay
o Improve bus service reliability
o Improve customer satisfaction
o Lead to increased ridership and cost-effectiveness
Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel stated that the average fee to ride a Lyft from that location is
around $5.50, so that is cheaper; however, when it is an ADA
transportation request it costs about $40 per trip where a Call-n-Ride trip
would only average $11 per trip.
Mr. Becker stated that RTD must abide by rules and regulations must when
transporting riders where Lyft does not need to abide by those rules.

6.D

Support community investment in sustainable mobility through
interagency coordination: Complete Streets, transit, bicycle, and
pedestrian

RTD Bus Network
 All RTD bus routes broken down into 40,000 segments for detailed
study
 Multi-step screening used to identify and prioritize corridors that best
benefit from transit enhancements based on:
o Speed - measure of delay and reliability
o Passenger load – benefit the most customers
Speed
 Actual running times used to estimate speed at segment level
 Median speed 17 MPH
 Slower speeds in places as expected
Load





Visualize areas with highest levels of passenger throughput
Median load of 300 passengers per day
High of 18,000 passengers
Corridor loads also as expected

Index Score
 Captures areas with slowest speeds and highest loads (based on
median values)
 Clusters of high scoring areas
 Corridors such Colfax and Broadway
 Use index score to identify short list of corridors
Top 15% Segments
 Captures areas with slowest speeds and highest loads (based on
median values)
 Clusters of high scoring areas
 Corridors such Colfax and Broadway
 Use index score to identify short list of corridors
Corridor Continuity
 Identify continuous corridors
 Synergy with current service performance
 Bottom-up analysis
 Downtown focus

Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



Priority Corridors
 Adjust alignments to complement radial and grid network
 Some already being addressed, e.g., E Colfax, US 36,
Speer/Leetsdale
 Narrow priorities with city input
o Downing Street
o E 17th and 18th Avenues
o E 12th Avenue
o Federal Boulevard
o W Colfax Avenue
o Havana Boulevard
o Broadway Street (Boulder)
Cooperative Transit Priority Treatments
 Bus lanes
 Traffic signal priority
 Queue jumps & bypass lanes
 Bus bulbs & bays
 Bus stop accessibility & amenities
Mr. Becker stated that the next step is to a create scope of work for each of
the corridors that have been identified, once funding is available. He said
that the scopes will be shared with the specific municipalities.
Mr. Able confirmed that RTD is currently meeting with the City of Boulder
and the City of Aurora and has a standing monthly meeting with the City of
Denver.
Director Folska asked if Denver has the largest transit geographical footprint
in the United States.
Mr. Abel confirmed that the city is close to being the biggest.
Director Folska asked if RTD’s corridors are operating on hub and spoke.
Mr. Becker answered that it is a combination of hub and spoke and grid and
that RTD has a big grid network. He stated that most people are headed
downtown.
Director Folska stated that she has an idea that a combination of the grid
and hub and spoke method in the suburban areas can be little wheels that
spoke into the bigger wheel.
Mr. Becker said that method is similar to the first/last mile station that
functions as a hub where multiple bus routes feed to the main routes.
Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Director Lubow stated that her initial concern when reading the presentation
was the money being spent on the analysis and that the analyst seemed to
be very Denver-centric. She said that she noticed that the proposal would
not benefit the people in the far-flung areas. She mentioned that she spoke
to someone at the City of Longmont who had never seen this proposal.

Director Lubow replied by saying she understands that ridership is greater
within the Denver region but her concern was that money was once again
being redirected for Denver-based studies.
Director Anderson mentioned that Boulder County has conducted similar
studies that involve diagonal travel to Longmont and bus bulbs.
Director Menten asked who the consultants were on the project and how
much it had cost.
Mr. Becker stated that the study cost approximately $150,000 and the
consultant was Transportation Management Design (TMD).
Director Francone stated that she recognizes that corridors that tend to have
high ridership will get more money to conduct studies; however, she asked
that RTD be mindful from redirecting monies from the outlining suburban
areas.
Mr. Abel responded that studies of this type can work to the benefit of RTD.
He said that if transit signals become a priority, allowing buses to get
through signals more rapidly than cars, then it will allow RTD to carry the
same number of people on the buses and lessen the resource investment.
He said that this scenario would free up resources to allow improved
services to the outlining areas.
Director Francone stated that RTD can build the best transportation system
in the world but doing so will not make a difference unless people can get it.
She stated that she hears a lot from her suburban constituents that they
want to travel downtown but cannot get there. She commented that RTD
can use money to smooth out the transportation needs of high ridership
corridors or they can use that money to provide an extra bus to suburban
areas during the middle of the day.
Director Broom said that people move out to the boondocks to separate
themselves from higher populated areas; but noted that transit only works
where there is adequate density. He said that it does not make sense to
Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel stated that the analysis is customer-centric and it was based on
where RTD has the most ridership and most delays.

6.D

have buses providing the same level of services to a sparsely populated
area.
Committee Chair Anderson stated that transportation starts with local
government and staff wants to identify those areas that have congestion
and high ridership and make the trip easier. She said that she applauds staff
for looking for efficiencies in RTD’s services.

Bruce Abel stated that the L line concept is not something that the new
Board Members have seen. He said it is a concept that they have shared
with the Board in the past, it is a proposal that Operations wants to
implement with the new August service changes. Mr. Abel asked Eric Miller
to provide the presentation.
Eric Miller, Senior Service Planner and Scheduler, stated that the L Line is
part of the Central Rail Extension (CRE) and the concept will allow
operations without construction of the extension to 38th and Blake Station.
He said the concept would improve system reliability, on-time performance,
and increase flexibility for future service.
How the L Line Proposal Fits with Other Light Rail Changes
 C Line replaces the D Line as base service for the Southwest Lines
 Helps with DUS connections, CU A Line service: every rail corridor
has a one-transfer connection
 Special service to CPV events would be covered
with regular service: Rockies, Broncos, etc.
 E Line midday service increase to 15-minutes
D and L Line Change Proposals
 L Line replaces D Line between downtown and 30th & Downing
 L Line is scheduled to offset Route 43, providing even service during
off-peak
C and D Line Change Proposals
 C Line becomes the base route for Southwest
 C Line increases to 15-minute base frequencies
most of the day, every day
 D Line turns into peak-oriented (similar to F Line)
E and F Line Change Proposals
 E Line midday service increased to 15-minute frequencies
 Keeps up with E Line growth, consistent service throughout the
week, and CU A Line connections
Signal Work Required for 14th & Stout Intersection
Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• L Line Operations and Service Concept

6.D





Two additional rail signals for switch movement
Traffic signal for loop trains for transit signal phase
Additional train to wayside communication (TWC) loop at 15th Street

Mr. Abel closed by saying that the D Line currently runs from Mineral to
Welton. He explained that the route is being split into two separate routes;
1) Mineral to Downtown doing the loop and heading back to Mineral, and 2)
Welton to Downtown and looping back up to Welton. He mentioned that
Welton is a single track component of the RTD network and controls the ontime performance throughout the network, which can be a benefit. He
stressed that staff’s primary concern is not to disrupt services and make
sure that services are not compromised at the Auraria Campus.
Director Folska stated that she was concerned that there would be not
service on the L Line on the weekends.
Mr. Miller stated that there would still be services and the L Line would run
at the same times at the D Line does.
Director Folska said that she was under the impression that Mr. Miller stated
that the L Line would not run on the weekends.
Mr. Miller responded that his team is proposing that the D Line not run on
the weekends but instead the C Line will run.
Mr. Abel said that the Welton corridor will have the same services as it
currently does.
Director Folska said she thought it was interesting that they were separating
out the two routes. She asked what the implications would be if RTD was to
reopen the station at 29th and Welton.
Mr. Abel responded that there would not be an impact if they were to
reopen the 29th and Welton station.
Director Lubow comment that she was not happy with the headway on all
the lines being at 15 minutes except the B Line which will be 30 minutes.
She congratulated the team on the potential cost savings of $2 Million if this
Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Next Steps
 Approval of PUC Application (by end of June)
 Continued coordination with the City and County of Denver for signal
work (July-August timeframe)
 Public outreach in advance of runboard process (this month)
 August 2017 service change public hearings (June)

6.D

plan is implemented and she suggested those savings be put in the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) account.
Director Deadwyler stated that she was very happy about the Welton street
corridor and thought it would be a great idea to re-open the 29th Street
Station. She asked about the loop and said that when services were
originally discontinued it was because of the loop at 38th and Downing. She
asked where that loop would be located.

Director Deadwyler stressed that she would like to see the 29th Street
Station reopened.
Mr. Abel said he will include that proposal in future conversations regarding
the L Line proposal.

• Proposed August 2017 Service Change
Mr. Abel stated that implanting the L Line into the 2017 service changes is
included in the plan and can be adjusted if RTD does not get approval from
Public Utilities Commission (PUC) and City and County of Denver (CCD).
He also informed the Board that they have already approved G Line services
and intermediate stations on the B line. He stated that the agency will not
be coming back to the Board with additional requests for approval on the G
Line or B Line.
Mr. Abel asked Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
to provide more information.
Mr. Carter, stated that the L Line concept is included in the proposal as well
as some bus stop consolidations to improve reliability. He mentioned the
introduction of a new route in Boulder, route 236, and some small changes
on routes 205 and 206. He stated that there is a FasTracks cost increase of
$495,000 and a base systems savings of $435,000. Mr. Abel reminded the
Board that the offsets are annualized for a full-year basis.
Mr. Carter informed Board that there will be five public meetings regarding
the service changes: one in Boulder, one in Littleton, and three in Denver.
Committee Chair Anderson reminded the Board that the Service Change
proposal goes out to the public for comment and staff will come back to the
Board for final approval.

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Miller said the south end loop would take place near 14th Street in front
of the convention center.

6.D

Director Francone asked if Mr. Carter could speak to the changes on routes
116, CB, and EB.

Director Francone expressed her happiness with the increased frequency of
services. She also shared that she had met with Mountain Resource Center
and Senior Resource Center. She said that Conifer and Evergreen would like
another mid-day bus. She said that she is not sure if ridership justifies it
but noted the increase of population in that area. She stated that there is a
growing veteran population that comes to the Jefferson County
Administration building for veterans’ services. Director Francone asked to
meet with Mr. Carter off-line to discuss in detail.
Director Sisk thanked Mr. Carter for taking services from his district due to
no ridership, specifically routes 206 and 209.

• 16th Street Mall (No Back-up)
Mr. Abel stated that he received a request from the CCD to work around
some Meet in the Street activities this summer. He said that RTD agreed to
the following dates: Saturday, July 8th; Saturday, July 15th; and Saturday,
July 22nd. He said RTD will alter shuttle routes to operate from Denver
Union Station to Curtis and from Curtis to Broadway. He stated that the
changes would result in fewer disruptions than last year’s events, and stated
that only half of the 16th Street Mall would see disruptions.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated that he is
giving an update on the 16th Street Redevelopment Project. He reminded
the Board that RTD has been spending over $1 Million annually maintaining
the 16th Street Mall and CCD is spending $300,000 annually.
He stated that staff has been looking at a number of different studies since
November of 2011 to find ways to rehabilitate the transitway where shuttles
run. He said RTD, CCD and Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP) have been
looking at the broader concept via Meet in the Street events and through
consultant studies.
Mr. Van Meter stated that in August 2016 the agency reported that the
previous studies that were conducted were being reviewed by Federal
Transportation Administration (FTA) and National Environmental Protection
Agency (NEPA). He explained how CCD and DDP asked RTD to partner with
them on a larger study to encompass the entire mall. He confirmed that
CCD has agreed to pay the full cost of the analysis in relation to NEPA
Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Carter stated that the changes are geared more towards the bus stop
consolidation, shifting some of the stops so they are an equal distance from
each other. He said the change will help with some of the signals between
the Broadway and Lincoln area and improve the liability of those services.

6.D

Mr. Van Meter informed the Board that in 2013, RTD received a grant from
FTA in the amount of $10 Million dollars to help with the rehabilitation and
construction efforts of 16th Street Mall transit guideway, with 80% of
monies from federal dollars and 20% local. He stated that two years ago
RTD also applied to the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG)
for another grant for the same purpose. He explained that RTD has a total
of two grants geared toward the improvement of the 16th Street Mall. He
informed the Board that the DRCOG grant is due to expire in September of
2017 and if RTD does not have a concrete plan to use the funds then the
DRCOG Board will have to make a decision on the future fund allocation. Mr.
Van Meter explained that RTD has not been able to allocate the funds in the
grant because there has not been an unanimous agreement among all
partners involved in the rehabilitation of the 16th Street Mall. He stated that
there are future meetings with FTA and CCD to brainstorm ways to obligate
funds for design and engineering work on the transitway on the mall.
Director Folska stated that she liked the idea of the Meet in the Street event
being broken up in smaller segments.
Director Menten stated she did not agree with the “use or lose it” analogy.
She said she believes that if RTD does not use the grant monies, the agency
has an obligation to return it back to the taxpayers.
Mr. Van Meter reiterated that funds would only be used for the rehabilitation
of the transitway only.
Director Broom asked Mr. Van Meter to explain the DRCOG grant process
regarding timeline scopes.
Mr. Van Meter explained that, if an agency is on a one-year delay, they will
be required to work with DRCOG staff to lay out a plan of recovery. He said
if the agency is delayed by a second year, grant will require a continuation
decision by the DRCOG Board and it is their prerogative to cancel the grant.
He said that if an agency is allowed another chance, then the Board will
establish a deadline and meet with the agency regularly to see progress on
the project.
Director Broom asked how many strikes RTD has against the grant right
now.
Mr. Van Meter replied that RTD has one strike.
Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

requirements. Through the bid process CCD has selected CH2M Hill to help
with the environmental study. He stressed that he has made certain to
RTD’s partners that our interest is only on the transitway where shuttles
run, not on the environment surround it.

6.D

Mr. Van Meter said that option has not been discussed, though he said that
RTD and CCD have developed a very reasonable and aggressive schedule to
help retain the grant. He stated that CCD is motivated by their tax
increment financing funds that can be used in support of the project but
noted those funds also have a spending deadline. He stressed that both
RTD and CCD have interest in moving the project forward as quickly as
possible.
Director Deadwyler asked why RTD is working based on the decisions of the
CCD and not making firm decisions as an agency in moving forward. She
stated that she feels CCD is trying to convince us to go in the direction that
they want.
Mr. Van Meter stated that RTD and CCD’s decisions align but in receiving
federal funding, it is required that we go through the historic preservation
offices and other consulting offices to receiving that funding. He stated that
the historic value and interest need to be addressed and resolved before the
project can move forward.

• Lost Service Hours Update
Bruce Abel presented lost hours report and there were no questions from
Board.

D. Other Matters
Director Sisk stated that former Mayor Karen Stuart was appointed to the State
Transportation Commission. He said it was a great choice by Governor
Hickenlooper.
Director Folska informed the Board that there was a special on Rocky Mountain PBS
regarding the entire rehabilitation process of Union Station and their partnership
with RTD.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 20, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 7:02 p.m.

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom stated that he thought that DRCOG offered an option to
reinstate that grant at a later time once a decision has been made as long as
funding is available.

6.D

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 66

6.E

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, May 16, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 7:18 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
7:16 PM
7:15 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:17 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:17 PM
7:15 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:15 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:12 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Committee Chair
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Absent

7:16 PM
7:11 PM
7:17 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Absent
Absent
Packet Pg. 67

6.E

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rofl Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell,
Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Paul
DesRocher, Eric Dunham, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg,
Kim Kinnison, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug
MacLeod, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Eric
Miller, Brenden Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Megan Arellano, Matt Marino, Mike Newman, John Thompson,
Cheryl Wallace

B. Recommended Actions

• 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited
financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2016 as prepared
by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod, Controller, thanked RubinBrown for their
efforts that they put into the audit and added that
representatives from RubinBrown were present to make
certain disclosures.
Matthew Marino, RubinBrown, indicated that they will issue a
cleaner unmodified opinion that will state RubinBrown has read
the document prepared by management and they agree with
the opinion. He added that since RTD spent more than
$750,000 in federal grant funds, RTD will receive a secondary
audit for which RubinBrown will be issuing a clean opinion as
well. He noted that there were no major disagreements, and
the RTD team was great to work with.

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Archuleta, Solano, Walker, and Williams were absent. Director Deadwyler left
the meeting early.

6.E

Cheryl Wallace, RubinBrown, added that no audit adjustments
were made. She noted that the interim financials that the
Board receives are complete and accurate.

Director Broom asked if RubinBrown had an opportunity to
review the findings of RTD’s internal audit staff, and if so,
were there any comments or recommendations.
Mr. Marino stated yes, that their reports are reviewed but
RubinBrown did not have any specific recommendations.
Ms. Wallace added that RTD’s internal audits are reviewed and
RubinBrown encourages them to keep reviewing internal
controls. She said that, as RTD continues to grow, the
internal audit department needs to keep the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) monitoring and oversight controls in place.
Mr. Marino remarked that RTD has several audits a year from
other entities as well. He noted the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) and the Federal Transportation
Administration (FTA) visit the district several times a year to
provide commentary and recommendations.
Director Broom inquired about the amount of time RTD’s
internal audit department spends on financial audits in
comparison to operational audits and asked if those efforts
balanced.
Ms. Wallace stated that there was a good balance.
Director Sisk thanked staff for their efforts and stated that this
was a herculean effort that does not get recognized
appropriately. He noted that RTD is in good hands.

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson congratulated and complimented staff and
said that they always do a good job and win awards for their
financial reporting. She thanked staff for their hard work in
managing RTD’s finances.

6.E

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the new time and
attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed
$750,000.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, stated that this is the
fourth time this item has been presented to the Board. She
indicated that RTD had an old timekeeping system and staff
terminated the contract when the vendor was bought out.
She said that staff went out with a cooperative agreement in
order approach two credible vendors: ADP and KRONOS. She
stated that after staff reviewed the two vendors, KRONOS
was identified as the optimal vendor and staff is looking for
concurrence in that selection. She noted that the funds are
available for both the implementation and the ongoing
maintenance.
Director Deadwyler inquired if the $750,000 was per year or if
it was a total, and how the funds were broken down.
Ms. McKillop stated that the $750,000 included
implementation costs, annual operation maintenance and
licensing for five years, and contingency to cover unforeseen
expenses. She added that if RTD wanted to expand this to all
employees across the organization, this contract will allow
RTD to do that as it is a per person license.

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Timekeeping System Contract

6.E

Director Deadwyler asked how many employees would be
covered in this program.
Eric Dunham, Senior Project Manager, remarked that the
license is for 900 represented non-operators.
Director Deadwyler asked what the license would cost per
person.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Barbara Deadwyler
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Non-Profit Program 2017
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value
amount for 2017.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that the action item before the Board
outlines how the new participants would be affected in the
program. She added that staff is grateful that the program is
so popular, but RTD will need to restructure the program in the
future so that it is financially feasible.
Director Deadwyler indicated that when this item was first
brought to the Executive Committee she was in agreement,
but she has since changed her mind. She said that the Board
pushed the community to the non-profits, and what the Board
is doing now is unfair to the constituents.

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop indicated that the service would cost $10 per
person per month.

6.E

General Manager Genova commented that this item was
brought to the Executive Committee in March when staff
identified that the program budget would be exceeded at the
current trend. He noted that the message that staff received
from the Board was that there was no desire to increase the
face value amount of the program, however, if the Board
wants to change the face value amount, staff will do as they
are directed.
Director Deadwyler remarked that it is unfair for the Board to
tell people to seek out tickets from the non-profits and now
the Board is taking that away.
Director Francone indicated that there are only so many dollars
to go around and asked how staff reached the $6.8 million
figure.
Ms. McKillop stated that the current figure was a $1 milliondollar increase from what was previously budgeted in 2015.
Director Francone asked how many participants in the nonprofit program already receive a discount from RTD.
Ms. McKillop said that 30 to 40 organizations already qualify
for a discount.
Director Francone inquired if staff considered restricting
agencies that already benefit from a discount from
participating in the non-profit program.
Ms. McKillop commented that staff did consider that option
but felt it would be difficult to implement mid-year. She said
that double discounts are a large part of the current problem
and that would be something for the Board to consider for
next year’s program.

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
stated that staff surveyed all of the participants in the nonprofit program and, per their request, RTD eliminated the
reporting requirements and allowed them to recoup their funds
by selling the fare media equal to what they paid. He stated
that, staff cannot continue this program as planned because
the budget would be exceeded by mid-2017 at the current
rate.

6.E

Mr. Reed noted that RTD is not required to offer this program.
He said that RTD is being a good steward of the community
and has done the best as it can. He added that some local
groups act like RTD is doing nothing, but the facts do not back
their arguments. He reminded the Board that RTD is getting
overwhelmed with requests for more and more, and the
budget will not allow for that.

Director Tisdale asked if the Board was supposed to feel guilty
because RTD has been charitable and philanthropic. He noted
that RTD has helped many but it cannot help everyone and
said that RTD is doing as much as it can. He said the Board
should support the current proposal.
Chair Hoy stated that RTD only has so much money, and free
for one person comes at a cost to someone else. He asked for
clarification about the non-profits recouping their costs.
Mr. Reed noted that previously, the participants could either
give the fare media away or sell it at 25% of their purchase
price.
Chair Hoy remarked that, prior to the changes in 2016, nonprofits were putting their own money into the process and
today they are putting in and losing nothing. He said that they
have passed the burden onto their clients by selling the fare
media for 100% of the price they paid.
Director Deadwyler asked why staff reduced the restrictions
so that the non-profits could get the fare media at no cost.
She further inquired if people still had to quality to get tickets
through the non-profits.
Mr. Reed stated that recipients still have to qualify and
participate in whatever non-profit or social service agency is
providing the media. He said that the only thing that changed
was that the non-profit restrictions were removed per Board
approval in 2016.
Motion to
Call the
Question:

Director Sisk made the motion to call for the question.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska said that this program allows people to get to
the major serveries that they need and this program should be
limitless.

6.E

Vote on the
Call for the
Question:

The motion to call for the question failed with 5 in favor
(Anderson, Broom, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk) and 6 against
(Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Menten, Tisdale) Directors
Archuleta, Solano, Walker and Williams were absent.

Chair Hoy asked how the program would be effected if the
Board voted no on this item.
Ms. McKillop stated that the amount budgeted for the program
would still be $6.8 million. She added that, if the Board voted
this motion down, the 2016 program will continue to run as is.
General Manager Genova explained that the intent of this
action item was to keep the program at the same face value
and solidify the temporary measures put into place this past
March. He said that the program will have caps and will keep
program users at their historical numbers. He stated that staff
could come back to the Board with this item at a later time or
approach this topic during the 2018 budget discussion.
Committee Chair Menten said that, if it were up to her, she
would reduce the value of this program. She noted that if you
give someone an inch, they will take a mile and said that the
intent of removing the restrictions was because RTD was over
managing the non-profits, but she was still in favor of reducing
the face value to previous levels.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 3]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Sisk
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Judy Lubow
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

• Citibank Call Modification
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the execution and delivery of a second
Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion FAILED.

6.E

modification and exchange agreement and a third supplemental indenture of
trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax revenue
refunding bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
remarked that this resolution discusses the modification of the
call provisions of the portion of the Series 2007A Bonds that
are subject to optional redemption on or after November 1,
2024. He noted that CitiBank approached RTD with a
proposal to provide a lump sum of $16 million to make the
bonds non-callable.
Director Broom asked what staff would do with the $16
million.
Mr. Morgan explained that the $16 million would be marked as
FasTracks funds and would have to be set aside and invested
separately.
Ms. McKillop noted that RTD would not be able to use the
funds for operating costs.
Director Folska inquired if any fees would be paid to CitiBank.
Mr. Morgan stated that CitiBank would not be paid, but added
that the approximate fees to modify the bonds would be
$300,000.
Director Lubow commented that the funds should be placed in
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA).

Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska seconded the motion.

6.E

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk
Ernest Archuleta, Paul Solano, Jeff Walker, Kate Williams
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Ms. McKillop stated that she wanted to focus on the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
therefore she would entertain any questions from the Board concerning the Monthly
Financial Status Report, the First Quarter Investment Report, and the Financing
Update. Seeing no questions, she moved to the SBP First Draft update.

• March 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
• First Quarter 2017 Investment Report
• 2017 Financing Update
• SBP First Draft
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, stated
that the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) is a six-year plan for the base system
and staff presented a high level overview in April and the update is a first
draft of RTD’s cash flow. She noted that the FasTracks program, both
expense and project, are shown separately in the Annual Program Evaluation
(APE). The SBP parameters include fiscal management, continued building
of reserves, and maintaining service levels for bus and light rail systems.
She said that the parameters also include:
•
•
•

•
•

Baseline is 2017 Amended Budget
First draft cash flow will change from Adopted to Amended
Diesel fuel lock for budget certainty in 2018
• Staff continues to monitor futures for opportunity, current
2017 lock price of $1.69/gallon is estimated and escalated
by national CPI over SBP term
• Forecasted price may change based on market conditions
State of Good Repair (SOGR) of facilities and equipment
Prioritization of capital and expense projects
Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

C. Updates

6.E

First draft SBP is very rough and fully-loaded with all
capital and expense project requests
• To balance first draft SBP, it will require elimination,
reduction, or deferral to outlying years of over $400 million
in project requests if no other funding sources identified
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) negotiated costs through
2017, then escalated at area CPI, to be updated for final
agreement
Planned fleet expansion/replacement funded by previously issued
Certificates of Participation (COPs) (associated debt service),
grant funds and local funds

•

•

SBP Variables are:
Uncontrollable factors
• Sales/use tax revenue
• Fuel price volatility
• Inflation rate
• Continued nature of economic growth
• Interest rates on debt
• Ridership
• Grant revenue/Federal appropriations
Controllable decision areas
• Fare rate increases/decreases
• Service levels
• Operating costs/expense projects
• Capital investment in projects
• Fund balance development
2018-2023 SPB Revenue Assumptions are:
Passenger Fares
• Per RTD Board policy, a 10% fare rate increase is considered by
Board every 3 years
• Next scheduled for 2019 and 2022
• Fare revenue assumed flat in 2017 for Base
• Ridership assumed flat in 2017 for Base
• No escalation other than rate increases
Federal Grants
• Based on actual 2017 appropriations
• Recognized as awarded
• Assumed to increase at rate of inflation or as identified
2018-2023 SBP Expenditures Assumptions are:
Operating and Maintenance Costs
Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

•

6.E

Inflated at Moody’s Denver-Boulder CPI rates (2.8% in 2018)
National Moody’s CPI rate applied to fuel costs (2.5% in 2018)
Includes one-time expense projects
Includes CBA, fixed through 2017 then escalated at CPI, to be
updated to actual negotiated contract
Fuel Costs
• Diesel budgeted at $1.69 gallon (2017 lock price) and escalated
at national CPI
• Gasoline budgeted at $2.65/gallon (2017 budget) and escalated
at national CPI
• Debt Service
• Interest and debt payments on existing debt based on debt
amortization schedules
• Proposed interest payments on possible future debt issues would
be based on treasuries rate forward curves
• Future debt issuance based on rolling stock COPs, both bus and
rail, and potential facilities construction
Capital Expenditures
• Over $400 million of project requests (capital and expense) will
need to be eliminated, reduced or deferred in SBP first draft
absent other funding sources
SBP Opportunities and Challenges are:
Opportunities
• Board strategic priorities and GM tactical plans
• Fuel lock for favorable outcome
Challenges
• Sales/use tax volatility
• Fuel price uncertainty
• State of Good Repair commitments and needs
• Project prioritization and project deferral
• Financing capacity, funding constraints
• Continued refunding of fund balances
• Increased O&M costs, CBA negotiations
Next Steps are:
•
•
•
•
•

June 20th – Presentation of 2017 Amended Budget for Board
adoption, SBP Update, and APE update
July 18th – Presentation of SBP update and APE update to
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
August 8th – Presentation of final SBP and APE for
recommendation to full Board
August 15th – Board adoption of 2018-2023 SBP and APE
August 22nd – Board Study Session on 2018 Budget
Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

•
•
•
•

6.E

Ms. McKillop added that staff is recommending the baseline forecast since
CU Leeds School of Business changed their model to a composite model,
which includes information from Moody’s, a much more conservative
forecast than in years past. She said that staff is much more comfortable
with the baseline forecast because the conservative forecast is too low.
She added that, if the Board wanted to be more conservative, she would
recommend adding funds to the reserve instead of using the low forecast.
Director Lubow asked if staff had any suggestions as to how much the
Board should put into reserves.
Ms. McKillop stated that the forecasts seem to be correct and RTD is on
track for 2017. She noted that there will most likely be a downturn in 2018
and RTD should put more money in the reserve account.
Director Mihalik said his position would be to increase reserves and go with
the more conservative forecast.
Director Francone asked if the baseline projection is less conservative than
the lower forecast.
Ms. McKillop indicated that the lower projection is -2.1%. The baseline is
4% and RTD is currently trending at 6%.
Director Francone said she would support a baseline projection and would
like staff to put more money into the reserves.
Director Broom stated that staff seems to anticipate a hiccup in the
economy while increasing fares by 10%. He said there is a point in which
the reserves become meaningless.
Ms. Scarpino explained that staff forecasts a fare increase every three years
for Board consideration but noted that it does not have to be implemented.

Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop added that debt will not be issued until 2023 and that
information was not included in this draft because staff does not know if
that is attainable or if that would be something RTD would want to do based
on current forecasting. She added that money will be transferred from the
base system into FasTracks beginning in 2024 and there might be a need to
begin that transfer in 2022/2023, which is not reflected in the current draft.
She stated that staff is unsure if the FISA is going to be sufficient to cover
FasTracks’ needs. She added that, once the APE is completed, staff will
have a better picture of RTD’s financial position.

6.E

Chair Hoy said when he was first elected in 2011 $11 million dollars of fare
cuts were implemented. He said that it was ugly but doable. He said a
recession can be counted on every ten years, and the region is due. He
added that he would choose the baseline projection since it reflects reality
better and he feels that is the best option.

• FTA Triennial Review Update
Ms. McKillop stated that staff is waiting on the draft report and will respond
to the findings as soon as it is received.
General Manager Genova added that ADA, maintenance, and technical
capacity were three areas in which RTD had extensive reviews and staff
was very happy with the exit interview.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop noted that the pilot participant go live date was scheduled for
May 10th but it was pushed back to May 17th, and the public go live date
will be May 24th. She said that staff has made significant process to go live,
and while there are a few remaining items in order for RTD to be Payment
Card Industry (PCI) complaint, RTD’s vendors are fully PCI compliant. She
noted that it is a continuous process and staff will continue to monitor the
web portal to ensure RTD’s customers are protected. She added that
Safeway will be ready to serve customers as soon as June 1st and King
Soopers is on target to go live on July 1st.
Director Folska congratulated staff for working through what she called a
nightmare. She said that there are so many different moving pieces and this
is really thrilling. She inquired if this meant that RTD’s work with Xerox was
finished.
Ms. McKillop stated that RTD has been working with Conduent, Inc., as of
January 1, 2017, which split from Xerox in late 2016.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone thanked Gina Callahan for successfully taking care of a service
issue that a constituent was having and thanked Barbara McManus for putting all of
the pieces together. She also congratulated Director Tisdale for a successful
stakeholder meeting on May 5th with the Southwest Rail Extension stakeholders and
asked Director Tisdale what was next.
Director Tisdale stated that the Board should stay tuned, and stay near.
Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska indicated that the baseline projection is reasonable but she
likes reserves, too. She added that it would be useful to look at RTD’s
consulting fees very carefully to determine what is really important at this
point in time.

6.E

Committee Chair Menten asked when the Board would see the service performance
report for 2016.
Ms. McKillop indicated that the report should have already been made available but
she would double check.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 20, 2017
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 16, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:59 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 81

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.F

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 18, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 2nd Vice Chair Deadwyler (via
phone), Secretary Walker, Treasurer
Menten

Committee members absent

1st Vice Chair Francone

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

Director Menten arrived late.
II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy briefly reviewed the May 23, 2017 Board Meeting agenda. He asked
about the retiree awards, and Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board
Office, said that only one retiree had committed to attend the meeting.
General Manager Genova mentioned that he had spoken to Director Lubow about
her questions regarding agenda items dealing with service contracts, specifically the
contract with Jacobs Engineering. He suggested that Director Lubow may want to
pull off the Jacobs contract agenda item from Unanimous Consent and place it on
the list of Recommended Actions, which would allow her to question how much of
the contracts went toward projects taking longer than originally scheduled.
Chair Hoy said he was fine with removing the item from Unanimous Consent and
asked whether Director Lubow’s question could be better answered offline.

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

6.F

General Manager Genova stated that Director Lubow wanted the rest of the Board
to hear the dollar amount estimate that Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, had put together.

General Manager Genova said that was not the intent.
Chair Hoy acknowledged the intent of the vote but asked how the vote would work
if the Board intended to do one thing but the recommended action language stated
something different. He read the recommended action language aloud.
General Manager Genova said that the funding for the program already existed in
the budget for 2017.
Chair Hoy said that the Board could change the budget and does so frequently.
General Manager Genova clarified that a yes vote would continue the program as it
currently existed, with the recently approved restrictions, and that a no vote would
roll back those restrictions. He said the Board would have to approve an
amendment to change the recommended action language.
Chair Hoy asked whether he was being overly cautions or if others interpreted the
recommended action language in the same way.
General Manager Genova agreed with Chair Hoy’s interpretation of the possible
outcome of a no vote.
Chair Hoy suggested moving forward with the agenda and having staff amend the
language.
Director Deadwyler said she interpreted a no vote as meaning the program needed
to be changed and that the Board would have an opportunity to do that.
Chair Hoy said that staff was asking to go forward with the program at the current
funding level and to put the restrictions in place.

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said he had concerns over the wording from staff on the recommended
action regarding the non-profit program. He said the recommendation was worded
such that a yes vote would result in a workable action but a no vote would
terminate the nonprofit program.

6.F

Director Deadwyler said she did not like the idea of being unable to change the
program because the recommended action was merely a courtesy that staff had
extended to the Board to tell them what they had already decided to do.
Chair Hoy reiterated that the effect of the recommended action is to keep program
funding at $6.8 million and continue the restrictions previously agreed to.

Director Deadwyler suggested that the Board should revisit the entire non-profit
program to be able to help constituents without bankrupting the agency.
Chair Hoy agreed that a probe would be needed but stated the vote before the
Board is a stopgap for 2017, without which the program would run out of money.
Director Menten reiterated that the language of the recommended action would
need to be changed to highlight the increases in 2016 and, due to budget
constraints, the program would be maintained at the increased level of $6.8 million.
She stated that alternative action #3 in the Board Report would be the effect of a
no vote.
Director Deadwyler stated again that the entire program needs to be revisited but
said that keeping the funding at $6.8 million while that review takes place would be
fine.
General Manager Genova stated that the plan Director Deadwyler proposed was
what the recommended action would accomplish. He said staff would look more
closely at the issue and come back to the Board.
Director Menten said that the pass program working group is not looking at
nonprofit program.
Chair Hoy said that the two programs are separate items.
General Manager Genova said the two plans were separate but related and that
there are stakeholders who are interested in both. She said that it is in the Board’s
discretion to operate the programs however they want. He noted that
recommendations from the pass program study may affect the non-profit program.
Chair Hoy said that he had a problem with ticket recipients receiving a 50%
discount on top of another 50% discount.

Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova concurred with Chair Hoy’s interpretation.

6.F

Chair Hoy reminded the Executive Committee that certain people are getting on the
bus for $.65. He said there would be a spirited discussion on the issue on the
following Tuesday. He asked whether the Directors in attendance agreed on the
new language for the recommended action, and they concurred. He said the
recommended action could not be tabled to a specific date because delaying would
drain more money from the program.
General Manager Genova said that the restrictions to the program were in place and
that the recommended action merely clarifies the Board’s policy.
Director Walker clarified that the motion language for the recommended action
would be changed to incorporate the bulleted restrictions itemized in the Board
Report.
General Manager said that staff would put together a replacement action in order to
add clarity.
Chair Hoy said that procedurally the motion would be read as it appeared in the
Financial Administration and Audit committee (FA&A), and then a substitute motion
would be made.
Director Menten asked to make the motion main since the action came out of
FA&A. She inquired when the language for the substitute motion would be sent
out.
General Manager Genova said the language could be sent out the following day.
Director Menten said it would be good to send the substitute motion language to
the Directors before the Board Meeting.
Ms. McManus said that distributing the motion language on the night of the Board
Meeting would cause confusion and offered to send the language out via email.
Director Menten said that Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Finance and Administration, had mentioned the timekeeping
contract item from the previous FA&A meeting had been presented to the Board for

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said that staff had considered removing the second
discount as part of the recommended action but refrained from doing so because of
the potential for pushback.

6.F

the fourth time. She said that she only remembered seeing the recommended action
twice.

Ms. McManus said that staff had presented an update to the Board and that
perhaps what Ms. McKillop had meant was that information regarding timekeeping
vendors had been discussed with the Board on four separate occasions.
Motion:

Director Menten made the motion to approve
moving the May 23rd, 2017 Board agenda to the
full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy,
Deadwyler, Walker, Menten), 0 opposed, and 1
absent (Francone).

Other Matters
General Manager Genova stated that he would be attending a technical meeting
with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Regional Office via videoconference
that day and another meeting at FRA headquarters in Washington the following
Monday.
Director Menten indicated that General Manager Genova would be able to report to
the Board on his discussions at the May 23 Board Meeting. She asked the date of
the next General Manager’s Quarterly Update.
General Manager Genova said the event had not yet been scheduled but would
check with Nate Currey, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public Information,
on the timing.
Director Menten asked whether the video recording capability was functional in
conference rooms R, T, & D.

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager said that in his recollection the agency had only looked at
changing timekeeping vendors twice. He said the agency had originally planned to
keep the original vendor but that plan did work out. He said the agency went out
with another type of procurement in order to change to a different vendor.

6.F

General Manager Genova said that the video functionality is moving ahead and that
much of the hardware has been installed.
Ms. McManus said that the components were attached to the network temporarily
and that an additional component would still be installed.

Ms. McManus said no one could see anything yet because the video recording was
still in the testing phase. She indicated that additional testing would take place the
following Monday and hoped to do a formal test during the upcoming Executive
Committee meeting. She said that staff was working on the closed captioning and
transcript components of the video project. She said that the video project hinged
on the proper operation of a video encoder and how that encoder integrated with
the Board’s agenda and minutes software, all of which would be tested on the
following Monday.
Director Menten questioned whether the work would take another month.
Ms. McManus said the rollout would depend on how well the testing goes and on
certain aspects such as sound and video integration and training of outside
vendors. She said that she did not know when the system would be ready but
hoped to have an end product before the next Executive Committee.
Director Deadwyler asked to know the total cost.
Ms. McManus said she would put that information together.
Director Walker announced that he had been asked to sit on the APTA nominating
committee, which selects the organization’s governing board.
Chair Hoy asked whether the nominating committee would be meeting at its own
conference.
Director Walker said that the committee would meet at the APTA Board Member
and Board Support Conference. He said that he would not be able to attend the
Board Meeting on July 25, 2017, because he would be attending Leadership APTA
in Vancouver, British Columbia, starting on July 26, 2017.
General Manager Genova said that RTD would be submitting Lacy Bell as the
agency’s applicant.

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler asked when the Board could see the video recordings.

6.F

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:34 p.m.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 18, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

IV.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 88

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 18, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:34 PM
5:29 PM
5:31 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM
5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:30 PM
5:33 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk

Director, District H
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:33 PM

Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:28 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:29 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were fifteen (15) members present at roll call.
Directors Archuleta and Deadwyler left the meeting early.

Packet Pg. 89

IV.

Staff Present:

Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes, Carolyn Conover, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Richard Fahlstedt, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Cory Granrud, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Inez Lucero, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Tom Papadinoff, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Mark Tieman, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Christina Zazueta

Others Present:

Athena Aceves, Marpessa Allen, Megan Arellano, Belita Bennett, Rutt
Bridges, Dr. William Gross, Jim Gunning, Don Hunt, Rod Mana, Tina
McDonald, Dan McKean, Brenda Mosby, Darla Ortiz, Joe Racosky,
Linda Rahikainen, David Sais, Holland Schellhase, Roger Sherman,
Marjorie Sloan, Susan Spry, John Thomson, Lloyd Walter, Bob
Wilson, Evelyn Zues

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy stated there were no retirees for the month of April.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
Brenda Mosby, Denver, stated that she had two concerns. She said her first concern is
regarding her friend who was almost hit by a train because she did not hear the train
coming into the station. She stressed that the same thing has happened to her in the
past. She voiced that she does not believe that operators always use their horns to alert
pedestrians that they are near. She explained that her second concern is how people run
across the tracks when they are trying to get on a train and the conductor will not let
them in. She stated that it was a safety concern.
Marjorie Sloan, Golden, introduced herself as the Mayor of Golden and Vice-Chair of the
Metro Mayors’ Caucus. She stated that she spoke on behalf of not only herself but also
the Metro Mayors’ Caucus. She said that she has been asked on behalf of the Caucus to
provide a united message of support for Mobility Choice Blueprint. She described how all
sectors of government have been making great strides as a region to plan and invest in
mobility needs. She stated that by working together to secure voter support, everyone is
now witnessing the transformative power of alternative modes of transportation as seen in
FasTracks. She said by looking at how to maximize existing mobility structure,
investments in infrastructure can be made to make the region more competitive and

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

enhance the quality of life. She stressed that the success of RTD will be determined how
the agency supports an away of public/private mobility investments. Mayor Sloan stated
that it is critical that RTD partners with Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
and Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) and the mobility business
community. She said RTD cannot afford not to join the Mobility Choice Blueprint effort.
Tina McDonald, Northglenn, stated that she represented the Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition (CCDC). She said that CCDC has had several meetings with RTD in regards to
the fact that the current buses purchased in 2014-15 and the new buses proposed do not
meet the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards. She explained that the ADA
requires 9” clear vertical space in the 30X48” securements. Ms. McDonald said that she
passed around diagrams which showed that RTD’s securements are inside that 48”
window, meaning that wheelchairs actually only have 46” to try and fit in. She stressed
that multiple wheelchairs block up traffic in and out of the buses to the point where a
person might have 4 or 5” between them. She stated that she has personally been on a
bus where someone was murdered. She also said that she has personally been involved in
a near-fatal bus accident where she was rear-ended and smashed underneath a school
bus. She proclaimed that a terrorist killed a man who was a friend of the disability
community and was more than happy to accommodate passengers. She stressed that
some RTD staff are still ignoring the issue. She closed by saying that it is RTD’s choice
whether to make these buses compliant now.
Kent Bagley, Littleton, former RTD Director of District H, stated that he is a firm supporter
of the Mobility Choice Blueprint effort. He said that he voted for the proposal last fall and
believes in it. He stated that he has had the opportunity over the past month and a half to
speak with Board members encouraging Mobility Choice Blueprint. He stated that some
Directors are for Mobility Choice Blueprint, some are against it, and there are some that
are still undecided. He stated that some alterations for the better have been made to the
plan since it first came to the Board in the fall of 2016. He said that the opportunity to
collaborate with CDOT, DRCOG, other municipalities, and private businesses is critical. He
explained to those Board Members who still need information can ask more questions over
time. He mentioned that he had the opportunity to attend a South Metro Denver
Development Group presentation and networking opportunity. He explained that there
were several private businesses at the table including Arrow Electronics, Uber, and
Lockheed Martin. He said that technology is ever changing and RTD cannot overlook
mobility issues.
Doug Gragg, Denver, said that RTD should not pay someone in London to do the mobile
ticketing application for RTD; instead RTD should pay someone to hold a sandwich board
in front of RTD to solicit local competition for the project. He also said that when he was

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Smith Young, Douglas County, opposes the Mobility Choice Blueprint proposal. He stated
that he understands that the amount of the contract was reduced so that the decision
might be voted through. However, he does not believe that there is enough transparency
and encouraged the Board to vote against Mobility Choice Blueprint.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
There was no update from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 28, 2017
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of March.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) ,1 abstention (Sisk), and 1
away (Folska).

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

coming to the Board meeting that he was on a bus with older style wheel chairs. He said it
made hard for him to exit the bus with the loaded wheelchairs on the bus.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
AWAY:

ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
Chuck Sisk
Claudia Folska

Chair Hoy declared this motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy gave the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS
 April 3rd – The memorial plaque recognizing former General Manager Cal Marsella
was unveiled at Denver Union Station. Directors Anderson, Tisdale, Williams and
myself attended.
 April 5th – The Chamber of the America’s hosted an Online Multi-Device Habits
seminar. Director Solano attended.
 April 7th – The Adams County Economic Development (ACED) held an Executive
Showcase luncheon. Director Solano attended.
 April 7th – The Metro North Chamber held a State of the Region & Development
Showcase that I attended.
 April 11th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group hosted
an Executive Roundtable. Director Tisdale attended.
 April 14th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group held
their monthly breakfast. Directors Tisdale and Williams attended.
ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
 The Citizens Advisory Committee will be hosting a Work Session Wednesday, April
19th.
 The Downtown Denver Partnership will be hosting their 2017 State of Downtown
Denver breakfast on Thursday, April 20th. Directors Solano and Williams will be
attending.
 Accelerate Colorado will be holding their Transportation Policy Committee meeting
on Thursday, April 20th. Directors Anderson, Folska, and Williams will be attending.
 The University of Colorado A Line will be celebrating its one-year anniversary with
Customer Appreciation Events on Friday, April 21st. Coffee and donuts will be given
out at the following locations:
o Union Station, Track 1 platform 6:30 – 8:30 a.m.
o Peoria Station, Commuter Rail platform 6:30 – 8:30 a.m.

Packet Pg. 93

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

o Denver Airport Station, Transit platform 5:00 – 7:00 a.m.
 DRCOG will be hosting their 2017 Awards Celebration, Our Region Rising, on
Wednesday April 26th. Director Williams will be attending.
 The Local Coordinating Council will hold their Douglas County meeting in Castle
Rock on Thursday, April 27th. Directors Mihalik, Tisdale, and Williams will be
attending.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova gave the following report:













Attended a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) quarterly meeting on Wednesday,
March 29th
Had conference call with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board on Thursday, March
30th
Attended an Operations division walk-through at Elati on Friday, March 31st
Presented to House Transportation and Infrastructure committee staff on Monday,
April 3rd
Met with Steve Fender, Karl Alexy, Bob Lauby, Thomas Hermann, and David
Blackmore of Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) along with DTP in Washington
D. C. on Monday, April 3rd
Presented to Senate Banking and Senate Commerce committee staff on Monday,
April 3rd
Had a conference call with Senate Banking Committee staff on Friday, April 7th
Attended a partnering session with DTP and RTD on Monday, April 10th
Met with Deya Zavala of Mile High Connects and Chair Hoy on Tuesday, April 11th
Had a conference call with Matthew Samelson of the Donnell-Kay Foundation on
Wednesday, April 12th
Keynote speaker at Railway Age and RT&S Light Rail Conference and Rail Transit
Finance forum on Tuesday, April 18th

General Manager Genova added that the on-time report for the University of Colorado ALine is at 90.4% and the on-time report for the B-Line is at mid-90s. He stated that the
overall on-time average for all rail lines at 94.5%.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an item a
Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda. Seeing no
discussion, he asked for a motion to approve items A and B.

Packet Pg. 94

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent
agenda.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval of Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements Contract

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the contract for Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and
Plaza Improvements with T-Bone Construction, Inc., in the dollar amount of
$1,270,874.94. Funding of this action is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
B.

Award of “Group 27” Contracted Fixed-Route Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services “Group 27.” This
contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year
cost of $128,033,723.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel
costs in an amount estimated to be $13,804,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total
5-year not-to-exceed amount for the contracted fixed route transit service and fuel is
$141,838,638.00.

Packet Pg. 95

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

Motion:

8.A

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

2018 Performance Measures Adoption

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopts the attached 2018 Performance Measures for mission statement goals
1-7. In 2018, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM,
which is the same number as in 2017.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the 2018 Performance Measures Adoption.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 4
opposed (Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [11 TO 4]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
D.

Award of Mobile Ticketing Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Mobile Ticketing System to Masabi LLC, in an
amount not to exceed $1,450,000. This price includes the cost for period of performance
of a base two-years and three one-year options.

Packet Pg. 96

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-055 to provide “Group 27” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
on May 13, 2017.

8.A

Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to approve the
award of the Mobile Ticketing Contract.

Discussion:

Director Menten said that the Board received a letter regarding
patent infringement and a notification of the difference in the
bids. She wanted to know if anything had changed since the
previous meeting.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, stated that there is a
difference of $22,000 between the bid based on the scope of
work. She said that the additional $300,000 in Masabi’s bid
for phase 2 would cover additional fare media RTD wants to
add to the mobile application.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that there is nothing in
the letter that changed since the previous meeting.
Director Menten asked how long it would take to move a
potential injunction through the court system.
Mr. Asphaug stated that the timing depends on the plaintiff.
Bytemark, and whether they are granted an injunction. He
said that they would have to prove irreparable harm. He said
that there are potential risks, but noted RTD would be
investing a limited amount of money.
General Manager Genova stated that his office received a
statement that Bytemark will not protest the award.
Director Anderson asked if Bytemark would have to post bond
to get injunctive relief.
Mr. Asphaug stated that he was unsure but he would look into
Director Anderson’s question.
Director Anderson told the Board a story about her friend that
lost her bus ticket when approached by a RTD fare checker.
She stated that her friend is very technologically savvy and

Packet Pg. 97

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

8.A

Director Deadwyler stated that she would be voting no. She
said that when she originally became a Board Member there
was a push to buy American and she said she cannot agree
with sending money to London regardless of how good the
application is. She said she believes that the agency could
find someone locally to provide the same services. She stated
that she does not think it is wise to buy a product while the
vendor is in litigation.
Director Francone stated that she echoes Director Deadwyler’s
comments. She stated that she agrees that there needs to be
mobile ticketing but not at the risk of being sued. She
stressed that she would be voting no.
Director Tisdale said that he learned in his career as a litigator
that anyone can be sued at any time for any reason, but the
question is whether you can win in court. He stated that he
was comforted by the fact that Bytemark, in a letter to the
Board, wrote that their “letter should in no way be viewed as
questioning anything about the procurement process that was
undertaken or the members who participated in it”. In
response to Director Anderson’s earlier question about
bonding, Director Tisdale said that one section of the Colorado
Rules of Civil Procedure would compel Bytemark to obtain
some sort of security. He reiterated that he was confident in
General Counsel’s ability to draft contract language to protect
RTD and hold it harmless.
Director Williams said she supported the proposal and pointed
out that the application is fully ADA compliant.
Director Solano stated that he believes the agency should
work on finishing projects like the Smart Card before investing
in another project. He said that he would be voting against
funding the application.

Packet Pg. 98

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

said if she had paid her fare on her phone then she would have
been able to find it. She said she believes that the application
is a good thing and it will increase ridership. Director
Anderson said that she would be voting yes.

Director Walker said he would be supporting the movement.
He stated that technological companies frequently sue over
infringement issues and that litigation does not bother him.
He said that he has faith in RTD’s legal team to protect the
interests of the agency. Director Walker stressed that the app
would increase ridership because of the ease of the purchasing
process.
Director Solano stated that, although he moved the motion, he
would be voting against it.
Chair Hoy said a mover can vote against the motion.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 6 opposed (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [9 TO 6]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
F.
Approval to Enter into Agreements to Contribute Funding to the Colorado
Department of Transportation for the Mobility Choice Blueprint Technical Consultant(s)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into any and all
agreements required to provide $400,000 in Regional Transportation District funding in
support of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Study. RTD’s funds are to be used for the
technical consultant(s) selected to conduct the Study, in partnership with the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG), as articulated in this Board report.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Mobility Choice Blueprint.

Packet Pg. 99

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

8.A

Discussion:

Director Archuleta stated that he has received numerous calls
regarding Mobility Choice. He asked Ms. McKillop to help him
understand why she said previously that RTD was struggling
financially yet the agency has money to fund this item.
Ms. McKillop explained that the money would come out of the
Board appropriated fund. She stated that RTD would be
restoring that money in the amended budget. She said that
every purchase is based on priority and that the money would
come from funds rolled over at the end of the year or RTD
would otherwise recue other accounts to pay back the Board
appropriated fund. She stressed that, if the Board identifies
Mobility Choice Blueprint a priority, then staff would make
reductions in expenditures to pay back monies used out of the
Board appropriated fund.
Director Anderson stated that CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD are all
public bodies and whatever business they conduct is in front
of the public and needs to be transparent. She stated that she
has been working on transportation planning for the past 30
years and the only way for initiatives to work will is if all
parties that provide transit services work together. She said
that CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD all conduct public meetings and
minutes are taken and published on-line. She stated that
transportation is changing so rapidly because new
technologies are being developed every day. In order for
CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD to provide reasonable and safe
transportation in the future all the agencies must work
together. Director Anderson said she would be voting yes.
Director Francone stated that she was a not vote last
September, she was a no vote last week, and she would
continue to vote no on this proposal because of transparency
reasons. She agreed that pubic agencies lie CDOT and
DRCOG need to be transparent but noted that does not hold
true with private businesses, specifically the Mobility Choice
Board, which is made up primarily of Denver and Boulder
business entities. She said that she has asked for documents
in the past from the Mobility Choice Board and still has not

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 100

received them and is not even certain who is on the Mobility
Choice Board. She stated that she thought that Southwest
Metro Chamber was supposed to be invited to sit on the Board
but she does not believe that happened. Director Francone
said she is still uncertain what the Mobility Choice Blueprint is
supposed to do and she feels that their efforts may be
duplicative of all the other transit reports out that have come
out within the last year in regards to the emerging technology.
She echoed Ms. McKillop’s statement on priorities and
believes that the agency’s main priority is keeping service
levels up instead of spending $400,000 to support this study.
She closed by saying that she does not think the study is good
business for RTD.
Motion to
Postpone
to a Time
Certain:

Director Folska made the motion to postpone the
Mobility Choice Blueprint until the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Menten seconded the motion.

Discussion: Chair Hoy stated that the motion on the floor is to postpone
this discussion until July’s Board Meeting. Chair Hoy asked
Mr. Asphaug to help guide him through the motion.
Mr. Asphaug said that the motion to postpone the Mobility
Choice Blueprint until July 2017 takes precedence over the
main motion and the motion to postpone is debatable.
Director Williams stated that she does not believe that people
can be swayed to change their vote between now and July.
She affirmed that she would be voting yes and she is certain
the Directors that are voting no will more than likely vote no in
July. She said to move forward with the vote and not to table
it until July.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

Director Lubow stated that she is not ready to vote yes
because there are still some issues that she wants to be
addressed. She said the postponement would give her time to

Packet Pg. 101

8.A

Director Tisdale spoke to the main motion. He said the motion
itself only authorizes the expenditure of up to $400,000 in
order to fund a technical consultant to conduct the Mobility
Choice Blueprint study in partnership with CDOT, DRCOG, and
Mobility Choice. He stated that the motion does not create
any other financial obligation or establish the structure of the
study’s oversight committee but rather gives RTD the
opportunity to sit at the table with a larger group of people to
engage in dialogue once the study has been conducted. He
said the Board could vote yes because the motion was
constrained and stated that he would be a no vote on the
substitute motion to postpone.
Director Deadwyler said that the agency is overlooking its
constituents. She said she received emails from constituents
telling her to vote no on Mobility Choice Blueprint. She stated
that she will vote yes to table vote until July to allow her more
time to talk to her constituents before making a decision.
Director Mihalik said that he takes issue with the Mobility
Choice Blueprint structure and he wonders if the public
participants are not subsidizing their business plans and their
market studies. He said the proposal states that public
agencies would take the lead in the study while the private
businesses would take the results from the study and any
information gained to support projects outside pubic agency
purview. He said he wanted some additional time to research
this proposal.
Director Broom asked to call the question.
Chair Hoy asked if there were any objections to the call of the
vote. No objections were made.
Mr. Asphaug clarified that a yes vote would postpone the vote
until the July Board meeting and a not vote would take the
discussion back to the main motion.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

talk and get more information from the people who are trying
to sway her vote.

Vote on

Packet Pg. 102

Motion to
Postpone
to a Time
Certain:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

The motion passed with 7 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik) and 8 opposed (Anderson, Broom, Hoy,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams).

FAILED [7 TO 8]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Natalie Menten, Director, District M
Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano

Chair Hoy declared the motion FAILED.
Chair Hoy stated that the Directors would then vote on the
original motion.
Director Solano called for the question of the vote for Mobility
Choice Blueprint.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 6 opposed (Deadwyler,
Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten)
Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Old Business
The was no old business.

XIV. New Business
Director Francone stated that she has been in contact with Dave Britton from Uber, who
said he and his team would like to meet with General Manager Genova and Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, because they have a plan regarding call and
ride or Access-A-Ride services.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

8.A

Director Folska commented that she hopes that the staff working on the Mobility Choice
Blueprint initiative will look at the macro aspects instead of the micro. She stated that
although unmanned vehicles and driverless cars are a hot topic, she does not see how that

Packet Pg. 103

8.A

XV.

Executive Session
Chair Hoy asked for a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b) and (e): Discussion of regulatory and legal matters
relating to Eagle Project Concession Agreement.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b) and (e):
Discussion of regulatory and legal matters
relating to Eagle Project Concession
Agreement.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

The Board adjourned into Executive Session at 7:30 p.m. after a verbal acclamation. Chair
Hoy asked designated staff to stay.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 18, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 18, 2017)

will mitigate congestion. She stressed that whomever Mobility Choice Blueprint hires as a
technical advisor, should have knowledge in policy implications because if anything goes
to a vote, then that person must be able to sell new ideas to the voters.

Packet Pg. 104

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Contract Extension for Jacobs
Engineering for FasTracks Program Support
Consulting Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
Program Support Consulting Services (PSC) for FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date
from June 30, 2017 to December 31, 2019. Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is
included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects
where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016 Annual
Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and
will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital bud gets.
BACKGROUND
On May 24, 2005, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to CarterBurgess (later purchased by Jacobs Engineering) for Program Support Consulting Services at an initial
2005 Contract amount of $2,360,000, and a Notice to Proceed of July 5, 2005. The RTD Board has
approved subsequent contract amendments through June 30, 2017 that have brought the current
Contract Not-to-Exceed price up to $191,423,336. This contract amendment would not increase the
contract value beyond the current authorized amount.
The PSC team provides program management support and specialized technical staff support to augment
RTD FasTracks Team staff. Key PSC staff members are co-located with RTD Staff at the RTD FasTracks
offices. The PSC functions as an extension of RTD staff. This approach adds value, cost-effectively, by
allowing RTD to tap the PSC’s specialized resources in planning, environmental, design, engineering,
construction management support, program control, and related disciplines on an as-needed, often parttime, basis.
DISCUSSION
The Program Support Consultant Contract was specified for a term of six years with a six -year
option, to be negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s work tasks. The current end date of the
contract is June 30, 2017.
RTD has reached the stage of the FasTracks program where several of the ongoing corridor projects
have reached revenue service, and are entering the closeout phase. At this time, it is crucial to
retain the institutional knowledge needed to close out all contracts, meet final reporting requirements
for FTA grant projects, and finalize the transactions and mapping that will secure the right -of-way
for the program alignments, including survey and mapping support for final acquisiti ons and utility
relocations, post-construction surveys, and filing of right-of-way plans. The proposed time extension
to the Jacobs contract would make the resources available to RTD to complete the project closeout
in a timely and cost-effective manner.

Packet Pg. 105

11.A

In addition, as part of the contract closeout process, RTD could face potential claims or lawsuits
related to its projects. Support from the PSC staff that were involved in the original issue could be
critical to resolving the issues in a manner that would be most favorable to RTD.
The contract extension will cover specific named individuals and functional areas, with projected
timeframes of availability for each one. In the event that a named individual were to leave Jacobs
before the end of the contract timeframe, the contract would be amended to remove all remaining
hours for that individual. Any future consultant support outside of these designated areas will be
procured through the Construction Management Support Consultant contract with Triunity -Hill, and
will not be added to the scope of this contract.
The contract extension identifies the following specific functions and tasks in support of FasTracks:
Program Management
 Provide track engineering support through the end of 2017.
 Assist RTD in coordinating the overall program-wide and project mapping, right-of-way (ROW),
and utility survey for all corridors and facilities.
North Metro
 Provide a full time Contract Manager through the first quarter of 2018.
 Provide environmental support through the first quarter of 2018.
 Provide construction support through the first quarter of 2018.
 Perform mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
I-225
 Provide mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
 Provide construction support through project closeout.
SEC Ext.
 Provide mapping, survey and right-of-way support.
 Provide environmental support through the end of 2017.
Eagle P3 (East, Gold, CRMF, Northwest Rail Electrified Segment)
 Provide P3 and railroad support through project closeout
 Provide Federal Agency Liaison and Risk Manager through project closeout.
 Provide full time Project Controls Manager and Contract Manager through project closeout.
 Provide FEIS/ROD mitigation monitoring through project closeout.
 Provide a part-time System Safety Manager through the end of 2017.
 Provide field survey, mapping, and right-of-way management support.
 Provide construction oversight through project closeout.
West Rail
 Provide support to close remaining right-of-way issues.
RTD has established a 7% DBE goal for this Contract. The latest DBE report indicates that the PSC’s
actual cumulative DBE percentage has been 20.07%. RTD does not foresee any additional opportunities
for DBE subcontracting through this contract extension because all of the named roles are filled by
Jacobs employees. All of the DBE subcontractors with continuing roles on the FasTracks program also
participate in the Triunity-Hill contract. If RTD were to spend the full Contract Not to Exceed amount,
the DBE participation on the overall contract would be 18.72%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total Contract Not to Exceed Amount for the PSC contract from 2005 through 2019, would
remain at the currently authorized amount of $191,423,336 with this amendment. Funding for
project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks

Packet Pg. 106

11.A

capital program in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for future
year scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2019 in the specific projects
where PSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year
capital budgets.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve
a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering for Program Support Consulting Services for
FasTracks, to extend the contract completion date from June 30, 2017 to December 31, 2019.
Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for
the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized.
Funding for future year scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 -2019
in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the
specific projects in future year capital budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to extend the
contract completion date for Jacobs Engineering. This is not recommended because of the
institutional knowledge and background of the specific staff to be retained through this
amendment. As RTD does not have the staff to provide a sufficient level of expertise in a cost effective approach to manage the FasTracks Program (As described in the Background section,
the PSC team can provide the technical specialties on an as needed basis).

Prepared by:
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 107

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
and Report to Governance

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
BACKGROUND
State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. RTD is also required
to provide annual audited financial statements to external entities and other government organizations to
be in full compliance with legal covenants, debt agreements, and other contractual documents. The
accounting firm of RubinBrown, LLP performed the 2016 audit. In addition to the requirements set forth
in state statutes, the audit also was designed to fulfill the requirements of the federal Single Audit Act of
1984 and related OMB circular A-133.
DISCUSSION
As stated in the auditor’s unmodified opinion, the financial statements in the enclosed Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of RTD as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of its operations and its cash flow for the 2016 and
2015 fiscal years in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept and enter into the record RTD’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is the recommended action, state statutes and other sources, such as rating agencies
and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into the
record.
2. Do not accept and enter into the record the audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2016 as prepared by staff and audited by RTD’s independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP. This is not the recommended action, since state statutes and other sources, such as rating
agencies and other legal covenants, require RTD to enter annual audited financial statements into
the record.
ATTACHMENTS:


2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report



Draft Report to Governance

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller

Packet Pg. 108

11.B

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 109

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado
303.299.6000 rtd-denver.com

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 110

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DENVER, COLORADO
COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016 and 2015

Prepared by
Finance Division
Chief Financial Officer

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 111

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

2

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 112

TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTORY SECTION

Page

Letter from Chair, Executive Committee

5

Letter of Transmittal

7

Board of Directors

13

District Service Area Map

14

Organization Chart

15

Department Officials

15

GFOA Certificate of Achievement

16

FINANCIAL SECTION
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

19

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

23

Basic Financial Statements
Statements of Net Position

37

Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

39

Statements of Cash Flow

40

Notes to Financial Statements

43

Required Supplementary Information
Pension Plan Summary

86

Supplemental Information
Schedule of Expense and Revenue –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

91

STATISTICAL SECTION
Net Position by Component

93

Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

94

3

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 113

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(CONTINUED)
Page
Operating and Other Expenses and Capital Outlays

95

Revenue by Source

96

Debt Coverage Ratios

97

Demographic and Operating Data

99

Debt Disclosure Tables

100

Strategic Budget Plan –Operations

101

Strategic Budget Plan - Capital Program

102

Statement of Debt

103

Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

104

Advertising and Ancillary Revenues

104

Grant Receipts and Local Contributions

104

Five-Year Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses
and Changes in Net Position

105

Five-Year Schedule of Expenses and Revenues –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

106

Fiscal Year 2017 and 2016 Budget

107

Trip Fares

108

RTD Net Taxable Retail Sales

109

4

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 114

Regional Transportation District

May 5, 2017
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
In accordance with Colorado statutes and Regional Transportation District (RTD) bylaws, the enclosed Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report of the Regional Transportation District as of December 31, 2016, has been compiled. Responsibility for the accuracy of the
presented data and the completeness and fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with RTD. Management believes
the data, as presented, fairly sets forth the financial position and operating results of RTD. Disclosures necessary to enable the reader
to gain the maximum understanding of the financial affairs of RTD have been included.
In developing and evaluating RTD’s accounting system, consideration has been given to the adequacy of internal accounting controls.
These controls are discussed by the Chief Financial Officer in the Letter of Transmittal. Within that framework, we believe RTD’s
internal accounting controls adequately safeguard assets and provide reasonable assurance of the proper recording of financial
transactions.
This report has been prepared according to the guidelines recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United
States and Canada. In accordance with these guidelines, the accompanying report is presented in three parts:
1.

Introductory Section, including the Chief Financial Officer’s Letter of Transmittal.

2.

Financial Section containing the independent auditor’s report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the financial
statements, notes thereto and supplemental information.

3.

Statistical Section, including selected tables of unaudited data depicting the financial history of RTD, demographics, and
other miscellaneous information.

Colorado law requires the governing bodies of local governments to have an independent audit of RTD’s financial statements
performed. RTD has complied with this requirement and has included the report of the independent auditors in the Financial Section
of this report.
Preparation of this Comprehensive Annual Financial Report could not have been accomplished without the dedicated efforts of the
entire financial staff. Should you have any questions or comments, please contact me or Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer.
Respectfully submitted,
Larry Hoy
Chair, Executive Committee

5

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 115

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

6

Packet Pg. 116

Regional Transportation District

May 5, 2017
Mr. Larry Hoy
Chair, Executive Committee
Regional Transportation District
State law requires that all general-purpose local governments publish within seven months of the close of each fiscal year a
complete set of financial statements presented in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. Pursuant
to that requirement, we hereby issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District (RTD)
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of RTD. Consequently, management assumes
full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of all of the information presented in this report. To provide a reasonable
basis for making these representations, management of RTD has established a comprehensive internal control framework that
is designed both to protect the government’s assets from loss, theft, or misuse and to compile sufficient, reliable information
for the preparation of RTD’s financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Because the cost of internal controls should not
outweigh their benefits, RTD’s comprehensive framework of internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable rather
than absolute assurance that the financial statements will be free from material misstatement. As management, we assert that,
to the best of our knowledge and belief, this financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.
RTD’s financial statements have been audited by RubinBrown, LLP, a firm of licensed certified public accountants. The goal of
the independent audit was to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements of RTD for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2016, are free of material misstatement. The independent audit involved examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management; and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. The independent auditor
concluded, based upon the audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an unmodified opinion that RTD’s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, are fairly presented in conformity with GAAP. The independent
auditor’s report is presented as the first component of the Financial Section of this report.
The independent audit of the financial statements of RTD was part of a broader, federally mandated “Single Audit” designed to
meet the special needs of federal grantor agencies. The standards governing Single Audit engagements require the independent
auditor to report not only on the fair presentation of the financial statements, but also on the audited government’s internal
controls and compliance with legal requirements, with special emphasis on internal controls and legal requirements involving
the administration of federal awards. These reports are in RTD’s separately issued Single Audit Report.
GAAP requires that management provide a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to accompany the basic financial
statements in the form of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to complement
the MD&A and should be read in conjunction with it. RTD’s MD&A can be found immediately following the report of the
independent auditors.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (RTD)
RTD provides public mass transit service to the Denver metropolitan area. In 1969, the Colorado General Assembly (Assembly)
found that public transit was a necessary part of the growing Denver Metropolitan Region. The Assembly found that public

7

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 117

sector involvement was the best method to ensure the continuation of this vital component. Thus, the Regional Transportation
District was created as a political subdivision of the State effective July 1969 “to develop, maintain, and operate a public
mass transportation system for the benefit of the District.”
RTD boundaries now include Jefferson, Boulder, and Denver counties, most of the City and County of Broomfield, and portions
of Adams, Douglas, Weld, and Arapahoe counties. Over 2.92 million people reside within RTD’s 2,342 square mile area.
Since 1983, RTD has had a fifteen-member Board of Directors that are elected by their constituents to serve four-year terms
to govern RTD. There are approximately 180,000 residents per director district. The RTD Board of Directors is responsible for
setting policy, overseeing the agency’s annual budget, and establishing short and long-range transit goals and plans in concert
with local, state, and federal agencies.
RTD employs over 2,813 men and women, making it one of the largest employers in the eight county areas. In addition, RTD
contracts with private carriers to provide access-a-ride, fixed route and commuter rail services employing over 2,058 men and
women. Besides its administrative headquarters in Denver, RTD has seven operating facilities (excluding purchased
transportation services), including four in Denver, one in Aurora, one in Englewood, and one in Boulder.
The financial reporting entity includes all of the financial activities of RTD, as well as those activities of its component unit,
the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority), a nonprofit corporation established to facilitate RTD’s use of
lease/purchase financing.
RTD also maintains budgetary controls. These controls ensure compliance with legal provisions embodied in the annual
appropriated budget approved by RTD’s Board of Directors. The budget sets forth proposed outlays for operations, planning,
administration, development, debt service, and capital assets. The level of budgetary control (that is, the level at which
expenditures cannot legally exceed the appropriated amount) is established at the project level.
The annual budget serves as the foundation for RTD’s financial planning and control. All departments of RTD are required to
submit requests for appropriation to the General Manager on or before August 1st of each year. The General Manager uses
these requests as the starting point for developing a proposed budget. The General Manager then presents this proposed budget
to the Board of Directors for review prior to October 15th. The Board of Directors is required to hold a public hearing on the
proposed budget and to adopt a final budget no later than December 31st.
Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except that the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted
appropriation resolution, to carry-over the unused portion of the funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to
exceed three years.
RTD’s policy also authorizes the General Manager to approve certain line-item transfers within the budget. Budget-to-actual
comparisons are provided in the Supplemental Information Section of this report.
Factors Affecting Financial Condition
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is considered in the broader
perspective of the specific environment within which RTD operates.
RTD serves the eight-county region considered the Denver metropolitan area. It is the most populated area of the state and
the economic barometer of Colorado. Employment in the Denver Metro area is dominated by small businesses. These companies
represent a diverse mix of industries and are located throughout the Denver metropolitan area, providing a geographic balance
in employment centers.

8

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 118

The Colorado Legislative Council (CLC) in its December 2016 report forecasts that the economy is expected to grow at a more
moderate pace; demographic change, growing inflationary pressures and rising interest rates will slow consumer spending.
Economists for CLC reported the following key economic indicators:
Key Economic Indicators
Job Growth
Unemployment
Personal Income
Population
Inflation

2015 Actual
3.2%
3.8%
4.2%
1.9%
1.2%

2016 Forecast
2.1%
3.4%
3.8%
1.7%
2.9%

2017 Forecast
1.8%
3.4%
4.7%
1.8%
2.9%

On November 3, 1992, the voters of Colorado approved a Constitutional Amendment (the “Amendment”) that limits taxes,
revenue, and spending for state and local governments effective December 31, 1992. On November 7, 1995, the voters of the
District exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On
November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the
Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred to finance the construction of the Southeast and Southwest light rail
lines or to operate such for as long as any debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in the District’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to
1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted
the District from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the
increased tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program.
At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, the District’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate
the transit system financed through FasTracks.
Long-term Financial Planning
Each year the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), which is the six-year operating
and capital improvement plan of RTD excluding FasTracks. Historically, FasTracks has been excluded from the SBP because
the program was primarily for capital expansion. In addition, the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Annual
Program Evaluation (APE), (which is a six year operating and capital improvement plan that includes the FasTracks
program). The APE is a component of the long-term transportation planning program for the Denver metropolitan area
evaluated by the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG). As the FasTracks program continues to transition from
capital expansion to operations, RTD will migrate the SBP and APE into a single short, medium and long-term Financial Plan
which will include the entirety of RTD in a single report. This financial information forms the basis for the development of
RTD’s annual budget.
The long-term financial planning seeks to allocate resources among related and, at times, competing activities and to optimize
those resources in a manner consistent with defined organizational goals and objectives.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RTD management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that assets
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse and that adequate accounting data are compiled to allow for the preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP. RTD has designed its internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that these objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that: (1) the costs of a
control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and (2) the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgment by management.

9

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 119

Single Audit: As a recipient of federal assistance, RTD is responsible for ensuring that an adequate internal control structure
is instituted to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to those programs. This internal control
structure is subject to periodic evaluation by management and the RTD internal audit staff.
As part of RTD’s single audit, tests are made to determine the adequacy of the internal control structure, including that portion
related to federal financial assistance programs, as well as to evaluate RTD’s compliance. RTD’s single audit for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2016 found no instances of material weakness in the internal control structures or significant
violations of applicable laws and regulations. A separate report was prepared for this purpose.
Fiscal Policy: RTD follows a fiscal policy approved by the Board of Directors annually or as necessary due to modification.
The fiscal policy contains policies for revenue, investments, expenditures, capital improvements, fund balance, debt, budgeting,
accounting and grants.
Debt Administration: RTD formulates its debt policy to protect its credit ratings and soundly manage its assets and liabilities.
Included in this policy is a requirement that debt will not be used to finance current operations. Another requirement precludes
financing capital projects beyond the useful life of the project. Additional policies go beyond these essential guidelines and
result in further protection. RTD has a dual rating for its 1.0% sales tax credit. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax
credit as “Aa1”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AAA” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit
“AA” that are secured by the 0.6% sales tax. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and
Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AA+” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit “AA” that are secured by the
0.4% sales tax.
Cash Management: The main objective of RTD’s cash management program is the protection of investment principal while
providing optimal levels of cash throughout the year. The RTD investment policy is modified periodically to adapt to changes
in eligible investments, benchmarks, and specific objectives.
During the year, RTD invested its cash in various investment vehicles including money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities,
agency securities, discount notes, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, and variable and fixed rate mortgage-backed
securities. The total average return on investments for the year was 0.8%.
Risk Management: RTD employs a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets and
control and prevent losses.
The areas of self-insurance are worker’s compensation, automobile and general liability. RTD is self-insured for liability, the
limits of which are $350,000 per person and $990,000 per occurrence as specified under the Colorado Governmental Immunity
statute. The self-insured retention for worker’s compensation claims is $2,000,000 per claim, with any amounts above this
covered by purchased insurance up to the legal limits of liability under the Colorado worker’s compensation statute.
Commercial insurance policies provide property coverage up to $1,663,245,896 for buildings, their contents, and rolling stock
(other than collision); a Commercial Crime Policy and Faithful Performance Bond; a $3,500,000 Workers’ Compensation Bond;
Felonious Assault Policy; travel insurance for employees on RTD business; fidelity coverage on the Trustees of the Union
Pension Trust, Salaried Pension Trust, Represented Health and Welfare Union Trust, Legal Trust, and the employees
administering the health benefits program for salaried employees. With the growth of Light Rail Transit (LRT) services, RTD
has added Railroad Protective and Railroad Liability commercial insurance policies that provide coverage when required under
operational needs.
The Risk Management Division coordinates these programs internally for RTD.

10

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 120

OTHER INFORMATION
Independent Audit: State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. The accounting firm
of RubinBrown LLP was selected to perform the 2016 audit. This audit also was designated to meet the requirements of the
Federal Single Audit 2 CFR 200.501, Uniform Grant Guidance and related 2 CFR 200, Uniform Grant Guidance – Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements. The auditor’s report on the financial statements and
schedules are included in the Financial Section of this report. The auditor’s report related specifically to the single audit is
included in a separate report.
Awards: The Government Finance Officers Associations (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting to RTD for its Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. This
is the twenty-fourth consecutive year, after a two-year absence from the program, that RTD has been awarded this prestigious
award.
In order to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, RTD must publish an easily readable
and efficiently organized Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the contents of which must conform to program standards.
This report must also satisfy both GAAP and applicable legal requirements.
The Certificate of Achievement is valid for one year only. We believe our current Comprehensive Annual Financial Report meets
the program’s requirements and will be submitting it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.
Acknowledgements: Preparation of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report on a timely basis was made possible by the
dedicated services of the entire staff of the Finance Division. Each member of the division has our sincere appreciation for the
contributions made in the preparation of this report.
Finally, without the leadership and support of the members of the RTD’s Board of Directors, preparation of this report would
not have been possible.
Sincerely,
Heather McKillop
Chief Financial Officer

11

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 121

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

12

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 122

Board of Directors
RTD’s governing body is a 15-member elected Board of Directors, with each member elected from one of the fifteen districts
comprising RTD’s service area. Each district is apportioned equally by population and most districts cross county boundaries.
The districts are assigned letter designations from “A” to “O”. The following are the members of the Board of Directors as of
February 2016:
District A
Kate Williams
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District I
Judy Lubow
Boulder/Broomfield/Adams/Weld Counties

District B
Barbara Deadwyler, Second Vice Chair
Denver/Adams Counties

District J
Larry Hoy, Chair
Adams/Jefferson Counties

District C
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Denver/Jefferson Counties

District K
Paul Daniel Solano
Adams/Weld Counties

District D
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Denver/Jefferson/Arapahoe Counties

District L
Lorraine Anderson
Jefferson/Adams Counties

District E
Claudia Folska
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District M
Natalie Menten, Treasurer
Jefferson County

District F
Bob Broom
Arapahoe County

District N
Tina Francone, First Vice Chair
Jefferson County

District G
Ken Mihalik
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

District O
Charles L. Sisk
Boulder County

District H
Doug Tisdale
Arapahoe/Douglas Counties

13

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 123

14

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 124

Organization Chart
Taxpayers and Customers
Board of Directors

General Manager

Bus Operations

Communications

Rail Operations

Planning

Finance/Administration

General Counsel

Capital Programs

Safety, Security &
Facilities

Department Officials
General Manager/Chief Executive Officer
Dave Genova

AGM, Planning
William C. Van Meter

AGM, Bus Operations
Bruce Abel

AGM, Capital Programs & Facilities
Henry Stopplecamp

Chief Financial Officer/Administration
Heather McKillop

General Counsel
Rolf Asphaug

AGM, Rail Operations
Terry Emmons

AGM, Communications
Scott Reed

AGM, Safety, Security & Asset Management
Michael Meader

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

15
Packet Pg. 125

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

16

Packet Pg. 126

FINANCIAL SECTION

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

17

Packet Pg. 127

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

18

Packet Pg. 128

11.B.a

Independent Auditors’ Report
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

1900 16 th Street
Suite 300
Denver, CO 80202
T 303.698.1883
F 303.777.4458
W rubinbrown.com
E info@rubinbrown.com

Report On The Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Regional Transportation
District (RTD) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 and the
related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise RTD’s basic
financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management’s Responsibility For The Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America; this includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to financial
audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General
of the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

RubinBrown LLP
Certified Public Accountants
& Business Consultants

Packet Pg. 129

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of RTD as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the
changes in its financial position and its cash flows for the years then ended in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Emphasis Of Matter
As discussed in Note A.20, RTD adopted the provisions of the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurement and Application,
effective June 15, 2015. Our opinions were not modified with respect to this matter.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
the management’s discussion and analysis and pension plan summary information on
pages 23 through 34 and 86 through 89, respectively, be presented to supplement the
basic financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial
statements, is required by GASB, which considers it to be an essential part of financial
reporting for placing the basic financial statements in an appropriate operational,
economic or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the
required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management
about the methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for
consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic financial
statements and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial
statements. We do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information
because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an
opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary And Other Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements that collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial statements. The
accompanying budgetary information, summary schedules, introductory section and
statistical section are presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a
required part of the basic financial statements.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

20
Packet Pg. 130

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

The budgetary information is the responsibility of management and was derived from
and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional
procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements
or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
In our opinion, the budgetary information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
relation to the financial statements as a whole.
The summary schedules, introductory and statistical sections have not been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on them.
Other Reporting Required By Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report
dated May 5, 2017 on our consideration of RTD’s internal control over financial
reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to
describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on internal
control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an integral part of an
audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering
RTD’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.

May 5, 2017

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

21
Packet Pg. 131

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

22

Packet Pg. 132

The management of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) offers users of our financial statements this narrative overview and analysis
of the financial activities for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. This discussion and analysis is designed to assist the reader
to focus on significant financial activities and identify any significant changes in the financial position of RTD. It should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements that follow this section. All amounts, unless otherwise indicated, are expressed in thousands of dollars.
Key Reporting Implementations
In fiscal year 2015 RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, and
GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB Statement Nos. 68 and 71
establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities, deferred outflows of resources, deferred inflows of resources, and
expenses related to pension benefits provided through defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
In fiscal year 2016 RTD implemented the provisions of Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 72, Fair Value
Measurement and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is to enhance the comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets and
liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures to provide
comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a government's financial position.
Financial Highlights
As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded total liabilities and deferred inflows
of resources by $3,322,352 and $3,176,938, respectively. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2016 was
$(214,479) compared to $(199,265) in 2015. RTD’s unrestricted net position was negatively impacted by the implementation of GASB
Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions (GASB 68). GASB 68 required RTD to record the amount of unfunded
pension liabilities. More information on the pension plans is available in the Notes.
The net position of RTD increased by $145,414 during the current year compared to a decrease of $4,136 in the previous year. The increase
for 2016 was due to higher operating revenues, sales and use tax and grant revenues, net of increases in operating expenses and nonoperating expenses which resulted from an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense reduction initiatives
undertaken by RTD. The decrease in 2015 was the result of the GASB 68 new financial reporting requirement.
RTD’s sales and use tax revenues are its largest single source of revenues. These tax revenues increased $22,080 (4.1%) in 2016 and
increased $26,797 (5.2%) in the previous year. In 2016 and 2015, The District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased
consumer and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth of 1.7% and 1.9%, low unemployment
of 3.4% and 3.8% as well as growth in personal income of 3.8% and 4.2%, respectively.
For 2016, total operating expenses exceeded total revenues resulting in a loss before non-operating revenue and expenses of $641,186
compared to a loss of $535,478 for 2015. The increase in operating loss for 2016 was mostly due to the FasTracks launch of the University
of Colorado A line and B line commuter rail, purchased transportation service. The increase in operating loss for 2015 was due to the
increased cost of salaries and fringe benefits. RTD anticipates operating losses, as these losses are subsidized by non-operating sales and
use tax, grant revenues and other miscellaneous income.
RTD’s total debt increased $165,289 (4.8%) and increased $230,096 (7.1%) in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Debt increased in 2016 due
to issuance of the 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Bonds for the purpose of funding additional FasTracks projects. Debt increased in 2015 due
to issuance of certificates of participation for the purpose of funding scheduled acquisition of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles.
Capital grants and local contributions increased $32,922 (19.4%) in 2016 and decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in the previous year. The increase
in 2016 occurred as a result of RTD securing a small starts grant for the Southeast Rail Extension, construction of the Civic Center Station

23

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 133

and betterments for the I-225 corridor. The decrease in 2015 occurred as a result of several major construction project being completed,
U.S. 36 Manages Lanes, Denver Union Station, and West Rail Line, reducing grant funding.
RTD’s capital assets, excluding depreciation, increased $634,633 in 2016 and increased $798,324 in 2015. The increase in both 2016
and 2015 was primarily due to the build-out of the FasTracks project.
Basic Financial Statements
Management’s Discussion and Analysis serves as an introduction to RTD’s basic financial statements. RTD’s financial statements are
prepared using proprietary fund (enterprise fund) accounting that uses the same basis of accounting as private-sector business enterprises.
Under this method of accounting, an economic resources measurement focus and an accrual basis of accounting is used. Revenue is recorded
when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred.
The basic financial statements are comprised of four components: statements of net position; statements of revenues, expenses and
changes in net position; statements of cash flows; and notes to the financial statements.
The statements of net position presents information on assets and deferred outflows of resources and liabilities and deferred inflows of
resources, with the difference between the two reported as the net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net position may serve
as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of RTD is improving or deteriorating. The statements of revenues, expenses, and
changes in net position presents information on operating revenues and expenses and non-operating revenues and expenses of RTD for the
fiscal year with the difference, the net income or loss, combined with any capital grants and local contributions to determine the change in
net position for the year. That change combined with the previous year-end total net position reconciles to the net position total at the end
of the current fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the changes occurs,
regardless of the timing of the related cash flows.
The statements of cash flows reports cash and cash equivalent activities for the fiscal year resulting from operating activities, capital, and
related financing activities, noncapital and related financing activities and investing activities. The result of these activities added to the
beginning of the year cash balance reconciles to the cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the current fiscal year. The statements
of cash flows, along with the related notes and information in other financial statements, can be used to assess the following: RTD’s ability
to generate positive cash flows and pay its debt as the debt matures; the reasons for differences between RTD’s operating cash flows and
operating income (loss); and the effect of investing, capital, and financing activities on RTD’s financial position.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information that is essential to fully understand the data provided in the statements
of net position, statements of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position, and statements of cash flows.
RTD provides bus, paratransit, and light rail service in a 2,342 square mile area in and around Denver, Colorado. The activities of RTD are
supported by a 0.6% and 0.4% sales and use tax collected within the District. The 0.6% sales and use tax is used to fund the Base System
operations of RTD. The Base System operations provide the bus and the majority of current light rail services in the Denver area. The 0.4%
sales and use tax funds the FasTracks build-out program and operation and maintenance of those program elements as well as providing for
enhanced transit services in the District. Additional revenue sources include fare collections, federal, state, and local financial assistance,
investment income, and other income such as advertising and rental income.
Financial Analysis
Condensed Financial Information - Condensed financial information from the statements of net position and statements of revenues,
expenses, and changes in net position is presented below.
Statements of Net Position – As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, total assets and deferred outflows of resources of RTD exceeded
total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources by $3,322,352 and $3,176,938, respectively. The largest portion of this excess, in 2016

24

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 134

and in 2015, was invested in capital assets, net of related debt. RTD uses these capital assets to provide public transportation services to
customers; consequently, these assets are not available for future spending. Although RTD’s investment in capital assets is reported net of
related debt, it should be noted that funding required to repay this debt will be obtained from other sources such as sales and use tax, since
the capital assets themselves cannot be used to pay the related debt. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2016
was $(214,479) compared to $(199,265) in 2015. Substantially all of the unrestricted net position, although not legally restricted, has
been appropriated or reserved by the RTD Board for future capital acquisition and reserve policy requirements, and debt liquidation during
the budget process. The deficit balance in Unrestricted Net Position includes an allowance for a Net Pension Liability of $312,980 in 2016
for the represented employee defined benefit pension plan (see Note I). RTD has recognized this liability in its financial statements in
accordance with GASB Statement 68; however, RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining
agreement.
Condensed Summary Statements of Net Position
2016
Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Current assets
Current assets - restricted
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
Other noncurrent assets
Deferred outflows of resources
Total sssets and deferred outflows of resources

$

519,762
424,793
6,602,020
223,397
107,526
7,877,498

2015
$

447,414
414,548
6,131,608
357,908
77,736
7,429,214

2014
$

549,772
582,236
5,413,455
301,173
39,736
6,886,372

Liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred infows of resources
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources

238,297
4,311,085
5,764
4,555,146

290,568
3,957,007
4,701
4,252,276

313,687
3,390,984
627
3,705,298

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted
Total net position

3,461,952
74,879
(214,479)
3,322,352

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)
3,176,938 $

2,987,694
174,538
18,842
3,181,074

$

$

In 2016, capital assets net of accumulated depreciation increased $470,412 (7.7%) for acquisition of revenue equipment, buildings, land,
and construction in progress for the projects in the FasTracks program.
Current liabilities decreased $52,271 (18.0%) in 2016 primarily due to an accrued lower construction payment for the FasTracks Eagle P3
project to the project concessionaire due in early 2017.
Noncurrent liabilities and deferred inflows increased $355,141 (9.0%) primarily due to issuance of 2016A FasTrack Sales Tax Revenue
Bond and FasTracks Eagle Capital Lease, in addition to the implementation of GASB Statement No. 68, Accounting and Financial Reporting
for Pensions, and GASB Statement 71, Pension Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date.
The net position of RTD decreased by $145,414 during the current year compared to a decrease of $4,136 in the previous year. The
decrease in 2016 and 2015 was due to higher operating revenues, grant revenue income and sales and use tax collection increases, net of
increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses.

25

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 135

Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position–The following summary of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position shows the activities of RTD resulted in change of net position. The key elements of changes in net position for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative information for 2014 are shown in the following table:
Summary of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
2016
2015

Operating revenue:
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Nonoperating revenues (expenses):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain on Sale of Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/ Unrealized Loss on Assets
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Income before capital contribution
Capital grants and local contributions

$

Increase in net position
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)
NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)
$

134,622
5,803
140,425

$

120,530
5,347
125,877

2014
$

120,497
4,406
124,903

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
781,611
(641,186)

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
661,355
(535,478)

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
659,102
(534,199)

563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365
(56,821)
202,235

541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
12,886
169,313

514,721
75,544
165
16,861
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393
(2,806)
206,431

145,414

182,199

203,625

3,176,938
3,322,352

3,181,074
2,994,739
3,176,938

2,977,449
3,181,074

$

$

The information contained in the condensed information table is used as the basis for the revenue and expense discussion presented
below, surrounding RTD’s activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

26

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 136

Revenues - The following schedule and charts show the major sources of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and
2014.
Revenue Analysis
2016
Revenues
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain-sale of assets
Capital grants and local contributions
Total Revenues

$

$

134,622
5,803
563,598
77,335
6,371
15,591
202,235
1,005,555

27

2015
$

$

120,530
5,347
541,518
73,383
3,164
11,407
169,313
924,662

2014
$

$

120,497
4,406
514,721
75,544
165
16,861
206,431
938,625

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 137

Passenger fares – Passenger fares provided 13.4% and 13.0% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Farebox receipts, monthly
and annual pass revenue, and special event fares for bus and rail services are included in passenger fares. Passenger fares increased by
$14,092 (11.7%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $33 (0.0%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to new fare boundaries and
pricing, in addition to the launch of the University of Colorado A line commuter rail services. Passenger fares changes in 2015 were minimal.
Advertising and other – Advertising and other revenue provided 0.6% of total revenues in both 2016 and 2015; this includes revenues
from advertisements primarily on RTD’s buses and external wraps on light rail vehicles. Advertising and other income increased $456 (8.5%)
in 2016 compared to an increase of $941 (21.4%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 and prior year was due an increase in advertising revenue
related to a stronger economy, new rail lines and revenue for lease and naming rights.
Sales and Use Tax – Sales and use tax provided 56.0% and 58.6% of RTD’s total revenues in 2016 and 2015 respectively. Sales and use
tax is a dedicated 1.0% tax imposed on certain sales within the service area. Sales and use tax increased $22,080 (4.1%) in 2016 compared
to an increase of $26,797 (5.2%) in 2015. In 2016 and 2015, the District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased consumer
and business-spending activity as the District continues to experience population growth of 1.7% and 1.9%, low unemployment of 3.4%
and 3.8% as well as growth in personal income of 3.8% and 4.2%, respectively.
Grant operating assistance – Grant operating assistance provided 7.7% and 7.9% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Grant operating
assistance increased $3,952 (5.4%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,161 (2.9%) in 2015. The operating assistance is a federal grant
revenue program used to perform capital maintenance and maintain RTD’s revenue fleet of bus, paratransit, and rail vehicles. The increase
in 2016 and decrease in 2015 is the result of grant funding sources being available during the year.
Investment Income – Investment income provided 0.6% and 0.3% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Investment income increased
$3,207 (101.4%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $2,999 (1817.6%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to fixed securities getting
better yields. The increase in 2015 was due to fixed securities getting better yields in 2015 and progressively higher investment balances.
Other Income/Gain on sale of Assets – Other income provided 1.6% and 1.2% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015. Other income
increased $4,184 (36.7%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $5,454 (32.3%) in 2015. Other income includes interest subsidy income,
rental income from retail space, parking, and miscellaneous other items. The increase in 2016 is attributable to the sale of three Fort Lupton
parcels. The decrease in 2015 was due to reduction of asset sales, which was primarily attributable to the Denver Union Station land
parcels sold 2014.
Capital grants and local contributions – Capital grants and local contributions provided 20.1% and 18.3% of total revenues in 2016 and
2015. Capital grants and local contributions increased $32,922 (19.4%) in 2016 and decreased $37,118 (18.0%) in the previous year.
The increase in 2016 was a result of RTD securing a small starts grant for the Southeast Rail Extension, construction of the Civic Center
Station and betterments for the I-225 corridor. The decrease in 2015 was a result of lower capital contributions related to completion of
major construction projects: West Rail line, U.S. 36 Manages Lanes and Denver Union Station multi-modal hub.

28

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 138

Expenses - The following schedule and charts shows the major sources of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and
2014.
Expense Analysis
2016

Expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Interest expense
Other expense
Total Expenses

2015

2014

$

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154
77,272
1,258

$

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531
79,686
1,422

$

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
72,293
3,605

$

860,141

$

742,463

$

735,000

Expense Analysis
$250,000
$200,000
$150,000
$100,000
$50,000
$-

2016

29

2015

2014

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 139

Salaries and wages–Salary and wage expense is the largest expense category accounting for 19.0% and 20.3% of the total RTD expenses
in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Salary and wage expenses increased by $12,842 (8.5%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $7,695
(5.4%) in 2015. Increases in both years occurred from salary and wage performance (result based) and progression increases.
Benefits – Fringe benefits accounted for 11.2% and 10.3% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Fringe benefits increased by $19,990
(26.2%) compared to an increase of $14,722 (23.9%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 and 2015 is primarily due to implementation GASB
Statement Nos. 68 and 71 establish standards for measuring and recognizing net pension liabilities.
Materials and supplies – The materials and supplies expense category accounted for 6.1% and 7.9% of the total RTD expenses in 2016
and 2015 respectively. Materials and supplies expenses decreased $6,704 (11.4%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $3,272 (5.3%) in
2015. The decrease in both years is primarily due to a decrease in diesel/gasoline fuel prices.
Services – Services expense accounted for 6.8% and 10.7% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Services expense includes contracted
services such as security services; vehicle, equipment and right of way maintenance services; advertising and marketing services, and legal
services. Services expense decreased $21,189 (26.6%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $29,171 (26.8%) in 2015. The decrease in
2016 was primarily due to the contract service deduction for Westminster Station IGA and U.S. 36 managed lane project (Phase I). The
decrease in 2015 was primarily due to the contract service reduction for U.S. 36 managed lane project (Phase I).
Utilities – Utilities accounted for 1.7% and 1.8% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Utilities expense includes electric,
telecommunications, water and sewer, and natural gas for facilities. Utilities expense increased $547 (4.0%) in 2016 compared to a
decrease of $478 (3.4%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 occurred primarily due to traction power costs due to the opening of the University
of Colorado A line and the B Line commuter rail. The decrease in 2015 occurred due to reduction of traction power costs as a result of West
Rail Line reduced rail passenger car capacity.
Insurance – Insurance accounted for 1.2% and 1.1% of total expenses in 2016 and 2015. Insurance expense includes RTD’s self-insured
cost for general liability and worker’s compensation claims. In addition, RTD purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets. Insurance
expense increased $2,280 (28.1%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $2,829 (53.7%) in 2015. The increase in both years 2016 and
2015 was due increased frequency and severity of claims.
Purchased transportation – The purchased transportation expense category accounted for 18.2% and 15.2% of the total expenses in
2016 and 2015. Purchased transportation represents the costs of contracted transportation services for bus, commuter rail, access-a-Ride,
and call-n-Ride services. Purchased transportation costs increased $43,389 (38.3%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $1,726 (1.5%) in
2015. The increase was due to the opening of the University of Colorado A Line and B Line commuter rail purchased transportation service
in April 2016 and July 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to reduction in service.
Leases and rentals – Leases and rentals include lease expense for office space, office equipment, park-n-Ride facilities, and use of
communication towers. Leases and rentals expense decreased $174 (5.0%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $198 (6.1%) in 2015. The
decrease for 2016 was primarily due to reduction in stadium management lease costs. The increase for 2015 years is primarily due to RTD’s
need for additional office space.
Miscellaneous – Miscellaneous expense includes other incidental operating expenses not included in other defined categories.
Miscellaneous expenses decreased $348 (7.7%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,030 (30.9%) in 2015. This category includes
additional one-time project expenses creating fluctuations between years.
Depreciation – The depreciation expense category accounted for 25.8% and 20.5% of the total RTD expenses in 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Depreciation expense is a non-cash systematic allocation of the cost of capital assets over the estimated useful life of the
assets. Depreciation expense increased $69,623 (45.6%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $13,486 (9.7%) in 2015. The increase in

30

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 140

2016 occurred primarily due to the FasTracks assets that were placed in revenue service for U.S. 36, University of Colorado A line and B
line. The increase in 2015 occurred primarily due the acquisition of new fleet and CAD/AVL.
Interest expense – The interest expense category accounted for 9.0% and 10.7% of the total RTD expenses in 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Interest expense decreased $2,414 (3.0%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $7,393 (10.2%) in 2015. The decrease in
2016 is due to reduced principal resulting in decrease in interest expense. The increase in 2015 interest expense is due to the additional
borrowings surrounding the FasTracks build-out and scheduled fleet replacements.
Other expense – Other expense includes miscellaneous non-operating expenses not classified in other expense categories. Other expense
decreased $164 (11.5%) in 2016 compared to a decrease of $2,183 (60.6%) in 2015. The decrease in 2016 was a result of reduced
financial issuance costs. The decrease in 2015 was the result on reduced loss of sales of assets compared to prior year.
Capital Assets – Investments in capital assets include: land and rights-of-way; buildings and improvements; leasehold improvements;
revenue and non-revenue vehicles; shop and service equipment; security and surveillance equipment; computer equipment; and furniture.
RTD’s investment in capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, in 2016 was $6,602,020 compared to $6,131,608 in 2015. The
increase in capital assets in 2016 was $470,412 (7.7%) compared to an increase of $718,153 (13.3%) in 2015. RTD acquires its assets
with sales and use tax revenues, farebox revenue, federal capital grants, and proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds and certificates of
participation. The increases during 2016 and 2015 were primarily due to the cost of planning, design and construction of FasTracks projects
and fleet acquisition.
The following table summarizes capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative
information for 2014.
Capital Assets (Net of Depreciation)
2016
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shops, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total

$

$

584,328
2,578,853
396,224
760,518
116,214
2,165,883
6,602,020

2015
$

$

390,250
1,490,304
295,359
550,425
79,988
3,325,282
6,131,608

2014
$

$

303,432
1,561,311
297,212
458,579
38,859
2,754,062
5,413,455

Major capital asset events during the 2016 fiscal year included the following:
FasTracks North Metro Corridor - The North Metro Corridor is an 18 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and 162nd
Avenue, passing through Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn and unincorporated Adams County. A construction contract was
entered to complete the commuter rail line from DUS north to 124th Avenue by 2018 with an option to extend construction to 162nd Avenue
if additional funding is identified. In 2016, expenditures related to the North Metro Corridor were approximately $138,756.
FasTracks Northwest Corridor - The Northwest Corridor is a 41 mile transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Longmont,
passing through Denver, Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder, Longmont, unincorporated Adams County, and unincorporated Boulder
County and was constituted as a project separate from the ongoing work in the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. In 2016,
expenditures related to the Northwest Corridor were $38,541.

31

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 141

East and Gold Line Public-Private Partnership (Eagle P3) RTD was selected for inclusion in the FTA Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program (Penta-P). In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private
partnership to design, build, finance, operate and maintain several of the transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program.
The Eagle P3 project is a $2,185,000 project that includes a Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East and Gold Line Corridors as well
as the Northwest Rail Electrified Segment. The Eagle P3 partnership was awarded to a concessionaire, Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
through a competitive bid process culminating in a contract price that was $305,000 below internal estimates. The project is expected to
begin revenue service in 2016.
The Eagle P3 project will be completed in two phases. Phase I includes the East Corridor, Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and design
work for Phase II. Phase II includes the Gold Line Corridor and the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment. In 2016, construction expenditures
related to the Eagle P3 project were $213,479. The Eagle P3 Project elements are described below:
FasTracks East Corridor - The East Corridor is a 23.6-mile commuter rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station and Denver
International Airport. The East Corridor opened for revenue service in April 2016.
FasTracks Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility - The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility is designed to service the four planned
commuter rail corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, North Metro, and Northwest Rail) included in the FasTracks plan. The Facility opened
in 2015.
FasTracks Gold Line Corridor - The Gold Line Corridor is an 11.2 mile rail transit corridor between Denver Union Station to the vicinity
of Ward Road, passing through northwest Denver, unincorporated Adams County, Arvada, and Wheat Ridge. The Gold Line is planned
to be open for revenue service in 2017.
FasTracks Northwest Electrified Rail Segment – The Northwest Rail Corridor, described previously, includes a project segment,
referred to as the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment, extending from Denver Union Station to Westminster. This segment opened for
revenue service in Summer 2016.
FasTracks I-225 Rail Line – The I-225 Rail Line is a 10.5 mile extension of RTD’s existing light rail line from the Southeast Line Nine Mile
Station to the East Line commuter rail transfer point near the intersection of Peoria Street and Smith Road. The project includes eight
stations and serves the Aurora City Center and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. This line opened for revenue service in February
2017. In 2016, expenditures related to the I-225 Rail Line were $154,338.
FasTracks Southeast Rail Extension – The Southeast Rail Extension extends the popular Southeast Rail Line from Lincoln Station to the
new RidgeGate Parkway Interchange at I-25. The project will add 2.3 miles of light rail. New stations will be built at Sky Ridge Medical
Center, Lone Tree City Center and RidgeGate with a 1,300 space Park-n-Ride facility. In 2016, expenditures related to the Southeast Rail
Extension were $47,780. The project is expected to open for revenue service in 2019.
Additional information on RTD’s capital assets can be found in note D of this report.
Debt Administration
Outstanding debt – Outstanding debt includes sales tax revenue bond, a Transportation Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan,
certificates of participation, and a Purchase and Assignment Agreement. The 2016 outstanding debt was $3,614,608 compared to
$3,449,319 in 2015. Outstanding debt increased by $165,289 (4.8%) in 2016 and increased by $230,096 (7.1%) in 2015. The increase
in 2016 was due to issuance of a 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bond. The 2015 increase is due to new COPs issued for acquisition
of equipment, buses and light rail vehicles.
Sales tax revenue bonds – RTD issues sales tax revenue bonds to fund the acquisition and construction of assets. The sales tax
revenue bonds were $2,190,533 and $2,013,220 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The sales tax revenue bonds

32

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 142

increased $177,313 (8.8%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $24,263 (2.9%) in 2015. The increase in 2016 is primarily due to
issuance of the 2016A FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bond. The increase in 2015 is due to the receipt of TIFIA loan borrowings. The
sales tax revenue bonds are payable from RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required to maintain certain minimum deposits, as
defined in bond resolutions, to meet debt service requirements. The bonds may be redeemed prior to maturity, at a price equal to the
principal amount plus accrued interest thereon and a premium to the date of redemption.
Certificates of participation - Certificates of participation relate to financial obligations issued by the Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc.
(Authority), a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to
acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used by RTD. RTD leases the equipment acquired with the proceeds from the Certificates
under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own
debt. Certificates outstanding were $1,199,245 and $1,230,860 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Certificates
outstanding decreased $31,585 (2.6%) in 2016 compared to an increase of $166,005 (15.6%) in 2015. The decrease in 2016 is due to
principal payment reducing debt. The increase in 2015 was due to the issuance of Certificates for the acquisition of equipment, buses
and light rail vehicles.
The following table summarizes outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 with comparative information for 2014.
Outstanding Debt
2016
Bonds and COPs payable:
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Total Principal
Issuance premiums and discounts
Debt net of issuance and refunding

2015

2014

$ 2,190,533
1,199,275
3,389,808
224,800

$

2,013,220
1,230,860
3,244,080
205,239

$

1,955,657
1,064,855
3,020,512
198,711

$ 3,614,608

$

3,449,319

$

3,219,223

RTD maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor Corporation, Moody’s Investor Services, and Fitch Ratings. Credit ratings vary based
on the type of debt and the source of funds used for repayment.
RTD’s ratings are presented in the following table:
Rating
Agency
Standard
&Poor’s
Moody’s
Fitch

Base System Bonds 0.6%
Sales &Use Tax

FasTracks Bonds 0.4%
Sales& Use Tax

Certificates of Participation

AAA
Aa1
AA

AA+
Aa2
AA

A
Aa3
AA-

Additional information on RTD’s debt can be found in footnote E of this report.

Economic Factors and Subsequent Events after adoption of the 2016 Budget

33

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 143

RTD is dependent on sales and use taxes, which are the largest single source of revenue for RTD, representing 56.0% and 58.6% of the
total revenues in 2016 and 2015 respectively. Sales and use tax revenues are affected by the local economy in which changes will affect
the level of funding available to RTD during its fiscal year.
RTD is dependent on passenger fares collected for transit services provided. Passenger fares accounted for 13.4% and 13.0% of total
revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Passenger fare collections may be affected by fare levels charged by RTD. In January 2016,
RTD implemented a fare increase and modification to fare products offered to customers.
RTD is dependent on federal and local grant funding as well as local capital contributions for both operations and capital
expenditures. Grants and local contributions provided 27.8% and 26.2% of total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Grant funding
and local capital contributions are only available for use by RTD for qualifying expenditures after appropriation is made by the awarding
agency.
Each year fiscal year, RTD proposes an Amended Budget at mid-year to the Board of Directors for appropriation in order to adjust revenue
and expenditures for the remainder of the fiscal year according to existing economic conditions and fiscal results. RTD may also present
budget amendments to the Board of Directors for approval at any time during the fiscal year to accommodate economic factors.
In June 2016, the Board of Directors approved the 2016 Amended Budget in which revenue was adjusted downward to reflect economic
conditions and results and certain adjustments to appropriated expenditures were made to accommodate the expected lower funding
availability. In August 2016, the Board of Directors approved a second amendment to the 2016 Budget in which a planned debt offering
for fleet purchases was canceled and replaced with working capital appropriations.
Increases in operating expenditures are expected in 2017 due to the opening of new rail lines as well as a full year of operations of services
that opened during 2016 under the FasTracks program. The FasTracks program is a plan to build a comprehensive, integrated region-wide
transit network that will provide a reliable and safe system, enhance mobility and respond to the growing transportation needs within the
eight-county Regional Transportation District. Additional FasTracks expansion projects are in various stages of completion with openings
planned in future years.
Requests for Information
This financial report is intended to provide an overview of RTD’s finances for those with an interest in this organization. Questions
concerning any information contained in this report may be directed to the Chief Financial Officer.

34

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 144

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

35

Packet Pg. 145

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

36

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 146

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2016
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable interest bearing investments (note B)
Receivables:
Sales tax
Other, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $224 and
$270 at December, 31 2016 and 2015, respectively
Grants
Inventories
Other current assets (note C)
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Total current assets
Noncurrent Assets:
Capital assets (note D):
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total capital assets
Less accumulated depreciation
Net capital assets

$

216,713
37,825

2015

$

155,485
104,757

101,978

96,460

21,130
94,462
34,012
13,642
326,123
98,670
944,555

18,453
1,780
35,921
34,558
163,744
250,804
861,962

584,328
3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735
261,265
2,165,883
8,160,534
(1,558,514)
6,602,020

390,250
2,195,281
491,458
921,680
201,950
3,325,282
7,525,901
(1,394,293)
6,131,608

182,875
40,522
223,397

277,999
79,909
357,908

Total noncurrent assets

6,825,417

6,489,516

Total assets

7,769,972

7,351,478

Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred outflows of resources

32,926
74,600
107,526

36,331
41,405
77,736

Other Noncurrent Assets:
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - unrestricted (note B)
Total other noncurrent assets

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

37

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 147

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION (CONTINUED)
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016

2015

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Current portion of long-term debt payable from restricted assets (note E)
Accrued compensation (note F)
Accrued interest payable from restricted assets
Other accrued expenses
Total current liabilities

$

Noncurrent Liabilities:
Long-term debt, net (note E)
Net Pension Liability (note F)
Other liabilities (note E)
Total noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities

105,276
60,275
21,705
22,115
28,926
238,297

$

163,301
61,698
19,953
21,451
24,165
290,568

3,554,333
390,058
366,694
4,311,085

3,387,621
321,615
247,771
3,957,007

4,549,382

4,247,575

843
4,921

599
4,102

5,764

4,701

3,461,952
74,879
(214,479)

3,274,663
101,540
(199,265)

Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Debt related (note A)
Pension related (note A)
Total deferred inflows of resources
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (note I)
Restricted net position (note I)
Unrestricted net position (note I)
Total net position, as restated

$

3,322,352

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

38

$

3,176,938

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 148

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016
OPERATING REVENUE:
Passenger fares
Advertising, rent, and other

$

Total operating revenue

134,622
5,803

2015
$

120,530
5,347

140,425

125,877

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
222,154

150,808
76,399
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
152,531

Total operating expenses

781,611

661,355

OPERATING LOSS

(641,186)

(535,478)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance (note A)
Investment income
Other income
Gain(Loss) on capital assets
Interest expense (note A)
Other expense

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

584,365

548,364

INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS

(56,821)

12,886

202,235

169,313

INCREASE IN NET POSITION

145,414

182,199

NET POSITION, beginning of year (as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle (note A)
NET POSITION, beginning of year (as restated)

3,176,938

3,181,074
(186,335)
2,994,739

OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation

Capital grants and local contributions (note A)

NET POSITION, end of year (as restated)

$

3,322,352

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

39

$

3,176,938

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 149

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2016
Cash flows from operating activities:
Receipts from customers
Payments to suppliers
Payments to employees
Net cash used in operating activities

$

2015

142,496 $
(147,251)
(290,663)
(295,418)

130,385
(149,332)
(265,366)
(284,313)

77,335
558,080
9,927

73,383
538,443
10,322

645,342

622,148

Cash flows from capital and related financing activities:
Principal paid on long-term debt
Proceeds from issuance of debt
Issuance Premiums/Discounts
Capital grant funds and other contributions received
Proceeds from sale of assets
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
Cost of issuance
Interest paid on long-term debt

(133,098)
278,826
23,210
109,553
6,257
(632,911)
(1,246)
(136,856)

(54,348)
277,915
9,906
181,428
457
(816,359)
(1,444)
(132,865)

Net cash used in capital and
related financing activities

(486,265)

(535,310)

(157,517)
511,094
6,371

(455,295)
416,375
3,164

359,948

(35,756)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

223,607

(233,231)

Cash and cash equivalents - January 1

319,229

552,460

542,836 $

319,229

Cash provided from noncapital financing activities:
Grant operating assistance
Sales and use tax collections
Other revenue
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities

Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments
Interest and dividends on investments
Net cash provided/(used) by investing activities

Cash and cash equivalents - December 31

$

40

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 150

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
Years ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING LOSS TO NET CASH
USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating loss
Adjustment to reconcile operating loss to
net cash used in operating activities
Depreciation expense
Bad debt expense
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Decrease/(increase) in other accounts receivable
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
Decrease in other current assets
Increase in deferred outflow
Increase in accounts payable
Increase/(decrease) in accrued compensation and expenses
Increase/(decrease) in other accrued expenses
Increase in deferred inflow
Net cash used in operating activities
RECONCILIATION OF CASH and CASH EQUIVALENTS:
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Total cash and cash equivalents

2016
$

$

$
$

(641,186) $

(535,478)

222,154
(12)

152,531
21

(2,677)
1,909
20,916
(33,195)
129,341
1,752
4,761
819
(295,418) $

6,536
(2,798)
6,222
(41,405)
128,862
(856)
(2,050)
4,102
(284,313)

216,713 $
326,123
542,836 $

155,485
163,744
319,229

Noncash investing, capital and financing activities:
RTD had unrealized losses on investments of $100
and $34 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
RTD issued a DUSPA bond to fund the constuction of capital
assets in 2010 for $167,954. Assets contributed were $0 and
($486) for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
RTD received noncash local match contributions for federal grants
of $3,019 and $642 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

41

2015

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 151

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

42

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 152

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Organization
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) was created as a transportation planning agency, a political subdivision of
the State of Colorado, by an Act of the Colorado General Assembly (the Act), effective July 1969 (Title 32, Article 9,
C.R.S., 1973, as amended). In 1974, the Act was amended and RTD became an operating entity charged with the
responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of a public mass transportation system for the benefit of
the citizens of the District. The District is comprised of 15 separate districts located in Denver, Boulder, Broomfield
and Jefferson counties, and certain portions of Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld counties.
RTD is governed by a publicly elected board of directors consisting of 15 members. Each board member is elected to
serve a term of four years by the constituents of the district in which the board member resides. As required by Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), these financial statements present RTD and its component unit. The
component unit discussed in note A.2 is included in the RTD’s reporting entity because of the significance of its
operational or financial relationship with the District.
In 1988, a Senate Bill was enacted (privatization legislation) requiring RTD to implement by March 31, 1989, a plan to
competitively bid contracts for the provision of at least 20% of RTD’s bus service by private contractors. In 1999, the
Bill was amended requiring RTD to increase this provision to at least 35% of fixed route bus service. In 2003, the Bill
was amended to require that at least 50% of RTD’s vehicular service be operated by private transit companies. In May
of 2007, the legislation was amended to provide for “a system under which up to 58% of the District’s service” is
provided by private contractors.
2. Financial Reporting Entity – Blended Component Unit
The Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority) was formed in 1987 as a nonprofit corporation on behalf of RTD
for the purpose of issuing certificates of participation in a public offering collateralized by an installment purchase
agreement with RTD. RTD’s General Manager appoints the Board of Directors of the Authority. The Authority serves
as a financing mechanism for various financing arrangements for RTD. RTD follows pronouncements 14 and 61 issued
by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board which provides guidance regarding the inclusion of component units
in the primary government’s financial statement presentation. The activity related to the underlying financial obligations
of the Authority has been included as a blended component unit in RTD’s financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2016 and 2015. No separately audited financial statements are prepared for the Authority.
3. Basis of Accounting
The accounts of RTD are reported as a Proprietary Fund. Proprietary funds are accounted for on the flow of economic
resources measurement focus and use the accrual basis of accounting which reports all assets, deferred outflows of
resources, liabilities, deferred inflows of resources, revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Revenue is recognized when
earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred. Proprietary funds distinguish operating revenues
and expenses from non-operating items. Operating revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and
producing and delivering goods in connection with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing operations. The principal
operating revenues of RTD are charges to customers for services. Operating expenses include the cost of services,
administrative expenses and asset depreciation. All revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as
non-operating revenues and expenses.
It is RTD’s policy to apply GAAP in its presentation of financial statements. When both restricted and unrestricted
resources are available for use, it is RTD’s policy to use restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they
are needed.

43

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 153

4. Cash Equivalents
RTD considers all highly liquid investments, both restricted and unrestricted, with an original maturity of three months
or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
5. Interest Bearing Investments
Investments with a maturity date, when purchased, of less than one year are carried at cost or amortized cost which
approximates fair value. Investments with a maturity date of more than one year from the date of purchase are carried
at fair value.
6. Inventories
Inventories consist primarily of materials and supplies used in the ordinary course of operations. Materials and supplies
are stated at cost using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method.
7. Other Current Assets
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are recorded as prepaid items.
Escrows are deposits held in escrow during the period of construction. At the time projects are completed, escrows
are generally applied toward the cost of the project or may be forfeited by RTD upon breach of contract.
8. Receivables
Accounts receivable are stated at the amount management expects to collect from outstanding balances. Management
provides for probable uncollected amounts through a charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation allowance based on
its assessment of the current status of individual accounts. Balances that are still outstanding after management has
used reasonable collection efforts are written off through a charge to the valuation allowance and a credit to accounts
receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have not been material to the consolidated financial statements.
9. Restricted Assets
Restricted assets are assets restricted by the covenants of long-term financial arrangements.
10. Capital Assets
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost. Capital assets are defined by RTD as assets with an initial,
individual cost of more than $5,000 and an estimated useful life in excess of one year. Maintenance and repairs are
charged to current period operating expenses and improvements are capitalized. Upon retirement or other disposition
of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the respective accounts
and any gains or losses are included in non-operating revenue and expense. A pro rata share of proceeds from the sale
of property and equipment, which were acquired with federal funds, is required to be invested in a similar asset.
Interest is capitalized on assets financed with debt or certificates of participation from the date of the borrowing until
completion of the project. The amount of tax-exempt and taxable debt and certificates of participation (externally
restricted) interest to be capitalized is the difference between the interest expense and interest earnings on issuance
proceeds. The amount of other interest to be capitalized is calculated by weighted average construction expenditures
multiplied by the weighted average interest rate of the outstanding obligations.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

44
Packet Pg. 154

Total interest cost of RTD consisted of the following as of December 31:

Interest expense
Capitalized interest
Total interest cost

2016

2015

$

77,272
60,248

$ 79,686
53,696

$ 137,520

$ 133,382

11. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets, which are as follows:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment

10–20 years
30 years
8–25 years
3–10 years

Fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, are included in the asset balances in the accompanying financial
statements. The cost of fully depreciated assets was approximately $336,323 and $370,683 at December 31, 2016
and 2015, respectively.
12. Deferred Outflows/Inflows of Resources
In addition to assets, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred outflow
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of
net position that applies to a future period(s) and thus, will not be recognized as an outflow of resources
(expense/expenditure) until then. RTD’s deferred outflows were $107,526 and $77,736 as of December 31, 2016 and
2015, respectively.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred inflows
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents an acquisition of net
position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that
time. RTD’s deferred inflows were $5,764 and $4,701 as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
13. Compensated Absences
RTD employees receive compensation for vacations, holidays, illness, and certain other qualifying absences. The
number of days compensated in the various categories of absence is based generally on length of service. Compensated
absences, which have been earned but not paid, have been accrued in the accompanying financial statements.
14. Self-Insurance
Liabilities for property damage and personal injury are recognized as incurred on the basis of the estimated cost to RTD.
In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are
recognized as they are incurred.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

45
Packet Pg. 155

15. Revenue Recognition
Passenger Fares
Passenger fares are recorded as revenue at the time services are performed and revenue is collected from the farebox.
Sales of monthly passes are recorded initially as unearned revenue and recognized as income at the end of the month
for which the pass is used. Sale of MyRide stored value, ten ride and day pass tickets are recorded as income at the
time of sale. Sales of college based passes, which are valid for a specific academic semester, are recorded initially as
unearned revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the amount recognized in each month
determined by prorating the total contract amount over the semesters/quarters covered. Sales of Eco Pass and
Neighborhood Pass, which are valid through December 31 of a given year, are recorded initially as unearned revenue.
Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the total contract amount prorated evenly over the
number of months of the contract.
Sales and Use Taxes
Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, RTD levies a sales tax of 1.0% on net taxable sales made within the
District and a use tax of 1.0% on items purchased for use inside the District. As described in Note E, under the terms
of the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A, Series 2010A, Series 2010B, Series 2012A, Series 2013A bond
resolutions, and TIFIA Sales Tax Loan and Series 2016A, sales and use tax revenue is pledged for payment of debt
service. Sales and use taxes are collected by the State of Colorado, Department of Revenue and are remitted to a
trustee who satisfies debt service from the collections, as required under RTD’s bond and commercial paper resolutions,
and remits the balance to RTD.
Sales and use taxes are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month collected by the merchant. Sales and Use Tax Bonds
debt service will be paid from the collateralized sales and use tax revenues in the amount of approximately $3,167,423
through 2050. Principal and interest paid for the current year and pledged revenues received were $107,701.
Grants and Local Contributions
RTD receives grants from the federal government, through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). Grants are also
awarded to RTD by state of Colorado through the Colorado Department of Transportation. The federal and state
governments issue grants to RTD for operations and acquisition of property and equipment.
The amount recorded as capital grants was $185,324 and $157,616 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Operating
assistance grant revenue was $77,335 and $73,383 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other contribution revenue was
$16,911 and $11,697 in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Grants and local contributions are recorded as revenue by RTD once all applicable eligibility requirements are met.
16. Use of Estimates
The financial statements contained herein have been prepared in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). GAAP are uniform minimum standards of and guidelines to financial accounting and reporting. GAAP
establishes appropriate measurement and classification criteria for financial reporting. Adherence to GAAP provides a
reasonable degree of comparability among the financial reports of state and local governmental units. The preparation
of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves the use of management’s estimates. These estimates are
based upon management’s best judgments, after considering past and current events and assumptions about future
events. Actual results may differ from estimates.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

46
Packet Pg. 156

17. Pensions
For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflows of resources and deferred inflows of resources
related to pensions, and pension expense, information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position and additions
to/deductions from the plan’s fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis as they are reported by
the plan. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee contributions) are recognized when due and
payable in accordance with the benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
18. GASB 68 – Classification
During the year ended December 31, 2015, RTD implemented the provisions of GASB Statement No.68 (GASB 68),
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions, as amended by GASB Statement No. 71, Pension Transition for
Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date. GASB 68 requires governments providing defined benefit
pensions to recognize the long-term obligation for pension benefits as a liability, and to more comprehensively and
comparably measure the annual costs of pension benefits. This Statement also enhances accountability and
transparency through revised note disclosures and new required supplementary information.
19. Reinstatement of Prior Year Net Position
Net Position has been restated as required by implementation of GASB 68 as discussed in note 18 above.
Beginning net position as previously reported
December 31, 2014
Prior period adjustment – Implementation of GASB 68 Net pension
liability (measurement date)
Net Position as restated,
December 31, 2014

$3,181,074
(186,335)
$2,994,739

20. GASB 72 – Classification
In March 2015, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) released Statement No. 72, Fair Value
Measurement and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at
fair value. GASB's goal is enhance comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value
measurement for certain assets and liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This
standard expands fair value disclosures to provide comprehensive information for financial statement users about the
impact of fair value measurements on a government's financial position.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

47
Packet Pg. 157

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
Deposits
RTD’s deposits are subject to the State of Colorado’s Public Deposit Protection Act (PDPA). Under this act, all uninsured
public deposits at qualified institutions are fully collateralized with pledged collateral which is held in custody by any Federal
Reserve Bank or branch thereof, or held in escrow by some other bank in a manner as the banking Commissioner shall
prescribe by rule and regulation, or may be segregated from the other assets of the eligible public depository and held in its
own trust department. Colorado’s PDPA requires that pledged collateral to be held is clearly identified as being security
maintained or pledged for the aggregate amount of public deposits accepted and held on deposit by the eligible public
depository. The depository has the right at any time to make substitutions of eligible collateral maintained or pledged and is
at all times entitled to collect and retain all income derived from those investments without restrictions.
As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, RTD had bank deposits of $46,919 and $44,367 collateralized with
securities held by the pledging financial institutions’ trust department or agent but not in RTD’s name.
Investments
At December 31, 2016, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes
Total

Fair Value
<6 Months
6-12 Months
1-5 Years
$
232,108 $
62,892 $
58,493 $
110,723
5,142
8,107
64,948
51,699
2,765
2,765
15,164
17,598
60,071
27,309
$
359,892 $
141,900 $
78,799 $
139,193

At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the following:
Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial Paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes
Total

6-12 Months
1-5 Years
Fair Value
<6 Months
286,411 $
47,137 $
32,726 $
206,548
104,662
20,492
38,508
45,662
2,802
2,802
213,026
203,086
9,940
82,732
7,031
75,701
23,836
23,836
88,205 $
330,713
$
713,469 $
294,551 $
$

Interest Rate Risk, as a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses arising from rising interest rates, RTD’s
investment policy limits maturities of individual investment securities to 5 years, unless otherwise authorized by RTD’s
Board of Directors.
Credit Risk, investment transactions are made in accordance with the Colorado Revised Statutes (CRS) 24-75-601, et seq.
The types of investments, which are authorized by RTD’s internal investment policy, include the following:

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

48
Packet Pg. 158

1.
2.
3.
4.

Obligations of the United States government.
Obligations of the United States government agencies and United States government sponsored corporations.
Municipal notes or bonds that are an obligation of any state of the United States.
Corporate Bonds that are an obligation of corporations or financial institutions organized and operating in the United
States.
5. Commercial paper.
6. Time Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposits.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances Notes.
8. Repurchase agreements.
9. Money market funds.
10. Local government Investment Pools.
11. Any other Investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et seq.

Credit ratings of RTD’s portfolio, as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, are exhibited in the table below. Portfolio holdings
adhere to RTD’s investment policy and applicable statute. Investments rated AAA, AA and A are from the Standard &
Poor’s rating service. Investments rated A-1+/P-1 are from the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating services, respectively.
At December 31, 2016, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$
300,077
59,815
$
359,892

At December 31, 2015, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings consisted of the following
Investment Ratings
AAA (Standard & Poor’s)
AA (Standard & Poor’s)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$
414,481
85,962
213,026
$
713,469

Concentration of Credit Risk, it is the policy of RTD to diversify its investment portfolio. Assets held in the investment
funds shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss resulting from over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a
specific issue or a specific class of securities. The asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible, depending
upon the outlook for the economy and the securities markets.
RTD’s investment policy outlines the following maximum exposure limits for unrestricted investments. As of December 31,
2016, RTD was in compliance with these limits. As of December 31, 2015, RTD was in compliance with limitations set out
in RTD’s previous investment policy limitations.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

49
Packet Pg. 159

Investment Type
U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S Agencies 1
Municipal Bonds of a
Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds of a
non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds, Short
Term
Pre-Refunded Muni Bonds
Corporate bonds
Commercial Paper
Time Deposits/CD
Bankers Acceptances
Repurchase agreements
Local Government Investment
Pools
Money market funds

Maximum
Portfolio %
100%
75%
20%

Maximum
Issue %
100%
25%
3%

Maturity
Restrictions
5 years
5 years
5 years

Rating
Restrictions
N/A
AA
A

20%

3%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

5 years

“A-1 or “MIG 1”

40%
20%
40%
10%
20%
50%
100%

5%
3%
3%
3%
3%
10%
50%

3 years
3 years
270 days
1 year
1 year
90 days
N/A

AA
AA
A-1/P1/F1
AA
AA
AA
AAAm

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

1

In the event that one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agency rates such Agency obligations below the highest rating category, but no
lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD’s funds may continue to be invested in Agencies if such investments satisfy the requirements
of CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) which limits the maturity from the date of settlement to three years, provided that the book value limits of CRS 24.75.601.1
(m) (II) shall not apply. Rather, the diversification limit shall be set as follows: no more than 75% of the portfolio may be invested in Agencies, with any
more than 25% being invested in any one Agency.

Proceeds from the issuance of RTD’s obligations are invested in accordance with legal documentation governing the
transaction, notwithstanding any provisions of RTD’s investment policy to the contrary, and do not fall within the maximum
exposure limits listed above.
At December 31, 2016 and 2015, RTD had $607,668 and $692,547 of cash and investments that were restricted under the
provisions of bond agreements.
Fair Value Measurements
In March 2015, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) released Statement No. 72, Fair Value Measurement
and Application, which would generally require state and local governments to measure investments at fair value. GASB's
goal is enhance comparability of governmental financial statements by requiring fair value measurement for certain assets
and liabilities using a consistent definition and accepted valuation techniques. This standard expands fair value disclosures
to provide comprehensive information for financial statement users about the impact of fair value measurements on a
government's financial position.
Level 1 - Unadjusted quoted prices in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the District has the ability to
access at the measurement date. Examples derived from NYSE, NASDAQ, Chicage Board of Trade, Pink Sheets.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices under Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly
on the measurement date. Examples include Matrix pricing, market corroborated pricing; inputs such as yield curves and
indices.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value that rely on the reporting entity's reasonably
available information concerning the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

50
Packet Pg. 160

assumptions about risk. Examples include investment Manager Pricing for Private Placement, Private Equities, and Hedge
Funds.
Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2016:
Valuation Inputs
Level 2
Level 1
- $
232,108 $
64,948
2,765
60,071
127,784 $
232,108 $

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes

$

Total

$

Level 3
- $
-

Total
232,108
64,948
2,765

- $

60,071
359,892

Level 3
- $
- $

Total
286,411
104,662
2,802
213,026
82,732
23,836
713,469

Valuation Inputs Summary for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2015:
Valuation Inputs
Level 1
Level 2
286,411 $
- $
104,662
2,802
213,026
82,732
23,836
286,411 $
427,058 $

Investment in Securities at Value

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S. Agency Securities
Municipal Bonds
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Bankers’ Acceptance Notes

$

Total

$

NOTE C - OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
Other Current Assets consist of:
2016
Prepaid expenses
Eagle P3 construction escrow
City of Arvada escrow
Park Creek Metro escrow
Other constuction escrow
Assets held for sale
Total Other Current Assets

$

$

3,706
5,120
2,606
282
273
1,655
13,642

2015
$

$

4,914
23,861
2,606
486
273
2,418
34,558

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

51
Packet Pg. 161

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2016 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2016
12/31/2015
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

390,250
3,325,282

$

194,078
693,159

2016
Deletions

$

1,852,558

Balances
12/31/2016

$

584,328
2,165,883

3,715,532

887,237

1,852,558

2,750,211

2,195,281
491,458
921,680

1,211,939
115,658
267,434

2,698
315
51,379

3,404,522
606,801
1,137,735

201,950

63,449

4,134

261,265

3,810,369

1,658,480

58,526

5,410,323

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
704,977
123,389
2,697
Buildings
196,099
14,685
207
Revenue earning equipment
371,255
57,198
51,236
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
121,962
26,882
3,793
Total accumulated depreciation
1,394,293
222,154
57,933
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
2,416,076
1,436,326
593
Capital assets, net
$
6,131,608 $ 2,323,563 $ 1,853,151
Depreciation expense was $222,154 and $152,531 for years 2016 and 2015, respectively.

825,669
210,577
377,217
145,051
1,558,514

$

3,851,809
6,602,020

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

52
Packet Pg. 162

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2015 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2015
12/31/2014
Additions
Capital assets not being depreciated:
Land
$
Construction in progress
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
Capital assets being depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated

303,432
2,754,062

$

86,831
870,055

2015
Deletions

$

13
298,835

Balances
12/31/2015

$

390,250
3,325,282

3,057,494

956,886

298,848

3,715,532

2,183,870
480,330
857,745

11,411
11,128
134,253

70,318

2,195,281
491,458
921,680

148,138

55,944

2,132

201,950

3,670,083

212,736

72,450

3,810,369

Less accumulated depreciation:
Land improvements
622,559
82,606
188
Buildings
183,118
12,981
Revenue earning equipment
399,166
42,147
70,058
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
109,279
14,797
2,114
Total accumulated depreciation
1,314,122
152,531
72,360
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
2,355,961
60,205
90
Capital assets, net
$
5,413,455 $ 1,017,091 $ 298,938
Depreciation expense was $152,531 and $139,045 for years 2015 and 2014, respectively.

704,977
196,099
371,255
121,962
1,394,293

$

2,416,076
6,131,608

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

53
Packet Pg. 163

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of December 31:
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on
November 1 of each year through 2036, issued with coupons between from 4.00% to
4.50% payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including discount
of ($1,017) and ($1,069) for 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2014, The District did a
Modification and Exchange on these Bonds, it resulted in a premium with an ending
balance of $15,446 and $16,224 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

2016
$

373,639

2015
$

374,925

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2024, issued with a 5.25% coupon, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year; including premium of $4,378 and $4,937 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

74,203

74,762

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
each year through 2017, issued with coupons between 3.00% and 5.00%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of $692 and
$1,523 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

7,414

14,728

Subordinate Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010, Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA) with principal and interest due on February 1 and
August 1 of every year through February 2040, with a coupon of 5.85%.

151,263

154,246

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially on November 1 of
2037 and 2038, issued with coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year, including premium of $1,950 and $2,039 for 2016 and 2015,
respectively.

81,090

81,179

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Series 2010B, due serially on November 1 of 2046 through 2050, issued with coupon of
5.844%, payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year.

300,000

300,000

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A, due serially on November 1 of
2023 and 2037, issued with coupon of 3.0% and 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year, including premium of $59,320 and $62,167 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

534,255

537,102

Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on November 1 of
2013 and 2021, issued with coupon of .25% and 2.207%, payable semiannually on
May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $352 and $425 for 2016 and
2015, respectively.

44,327

61,420

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially on
November 1 of 2027 and 2036, issued with coupon of 4.25% and 5.0%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year; including premium of $38,729 and
$40,682 for 2016 and 2015, respectively

243,549

245,502

TIFIA Sales Tax FasTracks Loan, due on May 1 of 2025 thru 2045, loaned with
coupon of 3.14% and interest capitalized thru November 1, 2020. Payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 of each year from 2021 thru 2045.

305,675

296,284

Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A, due serially on November 1 of
2036 and 2046, issued with a coupon of 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year, including premium of 34,985 for 2016.

229,950

-

Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding Obligations, Series 2007A, under
a lease agreement for acquisition of transit buses and vehicles, payments are due
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2021, issued with a 5.535% coupon.

7,620

8,910

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

54
Packet Pg. 164

2015

2016
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Amended and Restated Series 2002A,
under a lease agreement for acquisition of transit vehicles and facilities, payments are
due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued with coupons between
4.00% and 5.00%, including premium of $0 and $3.675 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

$

-

$

85,115

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2010A, under a lease purchase
agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles, construct, install and improve certain
equipment and other capital projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 to 2031, issued with coupons between 3.00% and 5.50%, including premium
of $2,299 and $2,570 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

189,269

194,315

Certificates of Participation Taxable (Direct Pay Build America Bonds),
Obligations, Series 2010B, under a lease purchase agreement for acquisition of light
rail vehicles, construct, install and improve certain equipment and other capital projects.
Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 through 2040, issued with a
coupon of 7.672%.

100,000

100,000

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2013A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2027, issued with coupons between 2.00% and 5.00%,
including premium of $27,321 and $29,942 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

222,706

243,877

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2014A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2044, issued with coupons between 4.125% and 5.00%,
including premium of $23,294 and $24,144 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

464,209

465,059

Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2015A, as Lessee Under an
Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 to 2040, issued with coupons between 3.25% and 5.00%,
including premium of $17,054 and $17,980 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.

210,969

211,895

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Purchase and Assignment Agreement, Refunding
Project of the 2002A COP's, as Lessee Under an Annually Renewable Lease Purchase
Agreement. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued
with a coupon of 1.903%.

74,470

-

3,614,608
(60,275)

3,449,319
(61,698)

$ 3,554,333

$ 3,387,621

Total
Less current portion

Total Long-Term Debt

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

55
Packet Pg. 165

The Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are payable from and secured by RTD’s sales and use tax revenue. RTD is required to maintain
certain minimum deposits, as defined in the Indenture of Trust, to meet debt service requirements. Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
debt service requirements to maturity are as follows:

Year ending December 31,
2017

Principal
$

27,573

TIFIA
Capitalized
Interest

Interest
- $

$

Total

92,135 $

119,708
119,893

2018

28,212

-

91,681

2019

20,818

-

90,678

111,496

2020

21,705

-

89,792

111,497

2021

17,164

-

99,665

116,829

2022-2026

175,214

1,976

480,440

657,630

2027-2031

436,764

11,119

406,218

854,101

2032-2036

499,983

16,062

294,857

810,902

2037-2041

382,708

9,620

185,715

578,043

2042-2046

333,612

-

132,102

465,714

2047-2050
$

246,780

-

37,104

283,884

2,190,533 $

38,777 $

2,000,387 $

4,229,697

Certificates of Participation are issued by Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc., a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued
Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used
by RTD as well as for construction of the North Metro commuter rail line. RTD leases the equipment acquired and elements
constructed with the proceeds from the Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting
purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own obligations.
Annual repayment requirements on the Certificates to maturity are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017

Principal
$

Interest

Total

32,702 $

58,484 $

91,186

2018

38,465

57,253

95,718

2019

48,620

55,524

104,144

2020

58,038

53,301

111,339

2021

60,507

50,741

111,248

2022-2026

308,773

209,897

518,670

2027-2031

180,645

147,228

327,873

2032-2036

197,055

96,986

294,041

2037-2041

183,595

44,584

228,179

2042-2044

90,875

6,666

97,541

$

1,199,275 $ 780,664 $

1,979,939

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

56
Packet Pg. 166

Changes in Long-Term Liabilities
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2016, was as follows:

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds

$

Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable
Net Pension Liability
Other liabilities*
Total long-term liabilities

$

Balance

2016

2016

Balance

Due Within

12/31/2015

Additions

Reductions

12/31/2016

One Year

2,013,220 $ 204,356 $

27,043 $

2,190,533 $ 27,573

1,230,860

74,470

106,055

1,199,275

32,702

205,239

31,943

12,382

224,800

-

3,449,319

310,769

145,480

3,614,608

60,275

321,615

68,443

-

390,058

-

247,771

119,267

366,694

-

4,018,705 $ 498,479 $

344
145,824 $

4,371,360 $ 60,275

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability and the CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Sales Tax Revenue Bonds

$

Balance

2015

2015

Balance

Due Within

12/31/2014

Additions

Reductions

12/31/2015

One Year

1,955,657 $

84,001 $

26,438 $

2,013,220 $ 27,043

1,064,855

193,915

27,910

1,230,860

34,655

198,711

18,366

11,838

205,239

-

3,219,223

296,282

66,186

3,449,319

61,698

Net Pension Liability

276,116

36,499

-

321,615

-

Other liabilities*

150,186

109,205

2,620

247,771

-

Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and discounts
Total Bonds-COPs Payable

Total long-term liabilities**

$

3,645,525 $ 441,986 $

68,806 $

4,018,705 $ 61,698

*Other liabilities consist of Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax arbitrage call modification liability and the
CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). ** Beginning year balance (as restated).

In prior years, RTD defeased certain obligations by placing the proceeds of new obligations in an irrevocable trust to provide
for all future service payments on the old obligations. Accordingly, the trust account assets and the liability for the defeased
obligations are not included in these financial statements. Outstanding as of December 31, 2016 are the following amounts
which are considered defeased:
2002A Certificates of Participation – Light Rail Vehicles and Maintenance Facility $74,287
In December 2016, RTD entered a Capital Lease Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. to refund it's $74,470 previously
outstanding Series 2002A Certificates of Participation. The Proceeds of the 2016 Obligation will be placed in escrow with US
Bank and are being used for the purpose of advance refunding the District's Adjustable Rate Certificates of Participation
(2002A Transit Vehicles Project), Series 2002A, as reissued on June 1, 2007 (the "Reissued 2002A Obligation") and paying
the costs of issuing the 2016 Obligation. The transaction achieved a 6.5% NPV savings and $5,653 million of cash flow
savings between 2017 and 2022 and retained the same final maturity of 2022.
In November 2016, RTD issued its Tax Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2016A in the par amount
of $194,965 for the purpose of (a) financing additional costs of improvements, facilities and equipment for the transit

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

57
Packet Pg. 167

expansion plan know as FasTracks (b) funding capitalized interest, and (c) funding costs of issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds
were issued without a debt service reserve fund. The final maturity on the Bonds is November 1, 2046.
In August 2015, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A in the par amount of $193,915 with an average
interest rate of 4.60% to be used to finance the acquisition of equipment, vans, buses and light rail vehicles. Certain proceeds
were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for the certificates and pay for related costs of issuance. The final maturity
of the certificates is in 2040.
In January 2015, RTD drew the final $75,000 and recognized $9,001 of capitalized interest from the Transportation
Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan. Under the TIFIA loan authorization, RTD drew a total of $280,000 in 2013 thru
2015 and recognized $16,284 of capitalized interest. The draws from the TIFIA loan were used to pay for “Eligible Project
Costs” on RTD’s Eagle Project. The interest rate on the TIFIA loan is 3.14% with interest payments anticipated to begin in
2021 and final maturity expected in 2045. The TIFIA loan will be used to complement the other sources of debt, resulting in
a lower cost of funding than would have otherwise been available in the capital markets. The first TIFIA draw of $125,000
was made in 2013. The TIFIA loan is secured by a pledge of RTD’s 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
NOTE F– EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
Employee Retirement Plans
RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans and one defined contribution plan for substantially all fulltime employees:
•
•
•

ATU 1001 Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit
Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Contribution

Plans are administered by a pension trust that issues audited financial statements, which include financial information for that
plan. Those financial statements may be obtained from the plan administrators:
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2016, is presented below:
Net Pension
Plan
Liability
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
361,264
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
28,794
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
390,058

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
41,590 $
4,921
17,295
$
58,885 $
4,921

Pension
Expense
$
28,805
7,261
3,476
$
39,542

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $11,615.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $4,100.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

58
Packet Pg. 168

A summary of pension related items as of December 31, 2015, is presented below:
Net Pension
Plan
Liability
ATU 1001 Pension Plan - DB $
311,672
Salaried Pension Plan - DB
9,943
Salaried Pension Plan - DC
Total
$
321,615

Deferred Outflow Deferred Inflows
of Resources*
of Resources
$
20,508 $
4,102
6,705
$
27,213 $
4,102

Pension
Expense
$
19,547
2,508
2,870
$
24,925

*ATU 1001 Pension plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $11,092.
Salaried Pension Plan deferred outflow related to contributions subsequent to measurement date was $3,100.

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2016)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.
Death benefits state if an employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary.
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he or she has worked for at
least ten years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled
upon receipt of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to
qualify for a disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he or she had worked for at least ten

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

59
Packet Pg. 169

years in covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early
as age 50 if he or she has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after
attaining age 50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be
payable at any time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred
vested retirement disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.
The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,623
1,498
1,418

Total

4,539

1

Based on December 31, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 563,479
202,215

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

361,264
35.89%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
January 1, 2016
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

60
Packet Pg. 170

Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age
Healthy Mortality
Disabled Mortality
Other Information:

30 years
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
3.00%
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
7.00%
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
There were no benefit changes during the year.

Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount Rate that
reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s fiduciary net position
is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on an index of 20-year general
obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary
net position is not sufficient to pay benefits).
For the purpose of this valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate
is 3.57% (based on the weekly rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the “state & local bonds” rate from
Federal Reserve statistical release(H.15)); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 4.54%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 4.54 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate 3.57 %
Last year ending December 31 in the 2016 to 2115 projection period for which projected benefit payments are fully funded
2031
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected Real
Rate of Return
6%
9%
3%
1%
1%
6%
10%

Target Asset Allocation
40%
15%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

61
Packet Pg. 171

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2015
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2016

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
526,136
$
214,464

$

13,074
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(25,439)
37,343
563,479

$

11,542
3,869
(1,829)
(25,439)
(391)
(1)
(12,249)
202,215

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
311,672

$

13,074
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(11,542)
(3,869)
1,829
391
1
49,592
361,264

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption
Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 4.54%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is one percentage-point lower or one -percentage-point
higher:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

1% Decrease
(3.54%)
$ 430,651

Current Discount
Rate (4.54%)
$ 361,264

1% Increase
(5.54%)
$ 303,168

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
RTD reported $11,615 as deferred outflows resulting from contributions subsequent to the measurement date and will be
recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2017.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

62
Packet Pg. 172

For the year ended 2016 the employer recognized pension expense of $28,805. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $36,669 of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
26,746
14,844
$
41,590

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
4,921
$
4,921

*The increase in the Total Pensions Liability due to assumption changes includes the impact of the change is the Single
Discount Rate from 5.00 percent to 4.54 percent. This change in assumptions was measured at the end of the year.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$

$

17,360
11,384
4,630
3,295
36,669

ATU 1001 Pension Plan – Defined Benefit (2015)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 Pension Plan was established pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented
employees in accordance with the union agreement. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by
Compusys, Inc.
Benefits Provided
All benefits are paid in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity unless this form is rejected by the participant and the
spouse.
Normal retirement benefits under the Plan are paid to participants who have attained age 65 and have been with the Plan for
ten years. The benefit amount is based on final average earnings, years of employment under this Plan and age at date of
retirement.
Early retirement, effective January 1, 1992, any Participant who has accumulated 20 or more years of credited service and
terminated employment prior to attaining age 50, will be entitled to an early retirement benefit starting on the first day of any
month after he has attained age 50. The Plan was amended effective January 1, 2011. The years of credited service needed
to qualify for a normal retirement benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier for both the normal
and early retirement was revised.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

63
Packet Pg. 173

Death benefits state if an Employee, who is not eligible for a vested benefit or not eligible to retire, should die, his beneficiary
will be paid the accumulated employee contributions plus interest. Upon the death of a pensioner, a funeral benefit of $2,000
will be paid in a lump sum to the pensioners designated beneficiary
Disability benefits, an individual who becomes totally disabled prior to age 65 and retires from active employment with RTD
as a direct result of being totally disabled is entitled to a disability retirement benefit provided he has worked for at least ten
years for RTD in covered employment or any of its predecessors. An individual will be considered totally disabled upon receipt
of a disability award from Social Security. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a
disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Deferred Vested Retirement Benefit, an individual who terminated employment on or after January 1, 1993, for any reason
other than retirement, will be entitled to a deferred vested benefit at age 65 provided he had worked for at least ten years in
covered employment for RTD or any of its predecessors. A participant is entitled to deferred, vested benefits as early as age
50 if he has worked for at least 20 years in covered employment and terminates active employment on or after attaining age
50. If an individual with 20 or more years of service terminated employment prior to age 50, benefits will be payable at any
time after age 50. Effective January 1, 2011 the years of credited service needed to qualify for a deferred vested retirement
disability benefit was increased from five to ten years and the benefit multiplier was revised.
Benefit structure for participants hired on or after January 1, 2011. The following changes are included:
•
•
•
•
•
•

The benefit multiplier is changed from 2.5% to 1% with a new benefit schedule. (Priority 1).
Regular retirement is changed from age 55 with 20 years of service to age 60 with 20 years of service.
Sick and vacation payouts are no longer included in the pension benefit calculation. (Priority 2).
Vesting is changed from 5 years to 10 years.
Interest on employee contributions is changed from 5% to 3%.
The maximum service included in the benefit calculation is reduced from 30 years to 25 years. (Priority 3).

A “Trigger Policy” has also been provided that will partially rescind the modified benefit structure when certain Plan funding
benchmarks are achieved. If the total Actuarial Required Contribution (ARC) is less than 11% of payroll, pension benefits would
be restored in the order of priority listed above. The "Trigger" remains in effect until such time as the 11% ARC is restored.
Employees covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension
plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving Benefits
Inactive employee entitled to but not yet receiving benefits

1,687
1,410
1,228

Total

4,325

1

Based on December 31, 2014 actuarial valuation demographic information

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

64
Packet Pg. 174

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:

Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$ 526,135
214,463
$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the
Total Pension Liability

311,672
40.76%

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Net Pension Liability:
Valuation Date:
December 31, 2014
Notes
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for
implementation the following year.
Actuarial Cost Method
Entry Age Normal
Amortization Method
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
Remaining Amortization
30 years
Period
Asset Valuation Method
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
Inflation
3.00%
Salary Increases
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
Investment Rate of Return
7.00%
Retirement Age
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last
updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
Healthy Mortality
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Disabled Mortality
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
Other Information:
There were no benefit changes during the year.

Single Discount Rate
Projected benefit payments are required to be discounted to their actuarial present values using a Single Discount
Rate that reflects (1) a long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments (to the extent that the plan’s
fiduciary net position is projected to be sufficient to pay benefits) and (2) tax-exempt municipal bond rate based on
an index of 20-year general obligation bonds with an average AA credit rating as of the measurement date (to the
extent that the plan’s projected fiduciary net position is not sufficient to pay benefits). For the purpose of this
valuation, the expected rate of return on pension plan investments is 7.00%; the municipal bond rate is 3.65%
(based on the weekly rate closest to but not later than the measurement date of the “state & local bonds” rate from
Federal Reserve statistical release(H.15)); and the resulting Single Discount Rate is 5.00%.
Development of the Single Discount Rate
Single Discount Rate 5.00 %
Long-Term Expected Rate of Investment Return 7.00 %
Long-Term Municipal Bond Rate* 3.65 %
Last year ending December 31 in the 2015 to 2114 projection period for which projected benefit payments are
fully funded 2034

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

65
Packet Pg. 175

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Real Estate
Domestic Fixed Income
International Fixed Income
Commodities
Private Equity

30 Year Long-Term Expected
Real Rate of Return
5%
8%
3%
1%
1%
5%
10%

Target Asset Allocation
40%
15%
5%
15%
10%
5%
10%

30 Year Inflation Assumption
Actuarial Return Assumption

2%
7%

Changes in Net Pension Liability

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Contributions-employee
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
488,394

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
213,008

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
275,386

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
526,136

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
214,464

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(10,758)
(3,586)
(11,779)
355
36,286
311,672

$

$

$

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to the Single Discount Rate Assumption
Regarding the sensitivity of the net pension liability to changes in the Single Discount Rate, the following presents the plans’
net pension liability, calculated using a Single Discount Rate of 5.00%, as well as what the Plan’s net pension liability would
be if it were calculated using a S i n g l e D iscount R ate that is 1-percentage-point lower (4.00%) or 1-percentage-point
higher (6.00%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

1% Decrease
(4.00%)
$ 375,343

Current Discount
Rate (5.00%)
$ 311,672

1% Increase
(6.00%)
$ 258,200

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

66
Packet Pg. 176

Contribution
Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires
RTD to contribute 13% and the employee to contribute 5% of the employee’s qualifying wages. RTD has included the full
amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the represented pension plan, in accordance with financial
reporting requirements. RTD is current in making all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.
Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $19,547. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $27,498 of resources related from pensions from the following resources:
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$
18,291
2,217
11,092
$
31,600

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
4,102
$
4,102

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the measurement
date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended
December 31,
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$

$

19,860
6,530
554
554
27,498

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

67
Packet Pg. 177

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2016)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If the employee
terminates from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60
and 65, and 1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is
average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

68
Packet Pg. 178

Employees covered by the benefit terms for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 (December 31, 2015 measurement
date), pension plan membership consisted of the following1:
Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

361

Total

701

232
108

1

Based on January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information
2
Includes transfer outs

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 151,571
122,777

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

28,794
81.00%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2015, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2015 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
4.75% - 9.75%, based on age
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation.
Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target asset
allocation as of the December 31, 2015 (for disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2016) are
summarized in the following data and reflect assumed long-term expected real rate of return over a 30-year horizon upon
which the disclosure is based:

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

69
Packet Pg. 179

Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
8.7%
9.7%
1.5%
10.1%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
50%
10%
30%
10%
N/A

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables.
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2015 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience study
covering the period January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2013.
Single Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions would be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The discount rate does not incorporate nor require a 20-year tax-exempt general obligation municipal bond rate (with an
average rating of AA/As or higher).
Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following present the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as
what the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point
lower (6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 42,136

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 28,794

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ 17,207

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

70
Packet Pg. 180

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2015
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2016

Increase (Decrease)
Total Pension
Plan Fiduciary Net
Liability
Position
(a)
(b)
$
139,953 $
130,010

$

3,342
10,388
3,869
3,601
(9,582)
11,618
151,571

$

3,100
(610)
(9,582)
(141)
(7,233)
122,777

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
9,943
$

$

3,342
10,388
3,869
3,601
(3,100)
610
141
18,851
28,794

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
RTD reported $4,100 as deferred outflows resulting from contributions subsequent to the measurement date and will be
recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the year ended December 31, 2017.
For the year ended 2016 the employer recognized pension expense of $7,261. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $17,295 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 3,631
5,488
8,176
$ 17,295

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions*
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
$
-

*Assumption changes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2015 measurement date, January 1,
2015 actuarial valuation date): the amount reported as Assumption Changes resulted from a change in the salary increase
assumption (average weighted salary increase changed from 4.00% to 5.00%). This change is expected to be more reflective
of future plan experience.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

71
Packet Pg. 181

Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:
Year Ended,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$ 6,993
5,675
2,605
2,022
$ 17,295

Salaried Pension Plan - Defined Benefit (2015)
Plan Description
The Regional Transportation District Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan provides coverage for all full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The plan is a single-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by Fringe
Benefit Services, Inc.
Benefits Provided
Normal retirement eligibility age is 65 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit 2.5% of average final compensation
times credited service. Early retirement age is 55 with five years of credited service; monthly benefit if retire or terminate from
active status on or after age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/30 for each year less than age 60. If terminate
from active status prior to age 55, the normal retirement benefit is reduced 1/15 for each year between ages 60 and 65, and
1/30 for each year less than age 60.
Disability retirement is five years of credited service, totally and permanently disabled, and entitled to a Social Security
disability award; monthly benefit unreduced normal retirement benefit, payable upon approval for Social Security disability.
Pre-retirement death eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit survivor pension assuming the participant
retired the day before death with a 50% Joint and Survivor Benefit. If death occurs before age 55, payment is deferred until
the participant would have reached age 55 and is reduced for early commencement. Survivors of married participants may
elect to receive an annuity or a lump sum distribution. Survivors of unmarried participants will receive a lump sum distribution
if death occurs while the participant is actively employed with RTD. The lump sum is the present value of the survivor’s pension
above but determined as if the participant was married and the spouse was the same age as the participant.
Termination eligibility is five years of credited service; monthly benefit if not eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or if elected within six months, a lump sum equal to the present value of the age 65 accrued benefits,
payable in lieu of all other benefits in the Plan. Employee monthly benefit if eligible to retire normal retirement benefit, early
retirement benefit, or a lump sum equal to the present value of an immediate accrued benefit, payable in lieu of all other
benefits in the Plan.
Forms of annuity payments for normal form are 50% Joint and Survivor Annuity if married, Single Life Annuity otherwise.
Optional Forms are 25%, 50%, 66-2/3% or 100% Joint and Survivor Annuity with 5-year or 10-year Certain and Life Annuity
(60 or 120 months guaranteed) Social Security Adjustment (Age 62 or Age 65) Lump Sum.
Credited service is one year for each calendar year of 1,000 hours of service (except years and completed months in the year
of transfer). Credited service applies to vesting and service for retirement benefit eligibility. Average final compensation is

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

72
Packet Pg. 182

average of participant's highest consecutive 36 months of compensation in the last 120 months of credited service immediately
preceding the calendar month in which retirement occurs. Compensation excludes bonuses, severance pay, long-term disability
pay and other extra compensation paid in the Fiscal Year. Compensation includes deferrals made to the RTD Deferred
Compensation Plan and RTD Flexible Spending Account Plan, overtime, shift differentials, leave pay and salary reductions.
Employee covered by the benefit terms for the FYE December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014 measurement date), pension plan
membership consisted of the following1:

Active Plan Members
Inactive Plan Members or Beneficiaries Currently Receiving
Benefits
Inactive Plan Members Entitled to But Not Yet Receiving
Benefits2

382

Total

716

220
114

1

Based on January 1, 2015 actuarial valuation demographic information
Includes transfer outs

2

Net Pension Liability
The components of the net pension liability of the plan for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015 as follows:
Total Pension Liability
Plan Fiduciary Net Position

$ 139,953
130,010

Plan’s Net Pension Liability

$

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as of Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability

9,943
92.90%

Actuarial Assumptions
The total pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation with date of January 1, 2014, using the following actuarial
assumptions applied to all periods included in the measurement with a liability roll forward to December 31, 2014 for
disclosure purposes for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2015:
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return

3.00%
3.75% - 8.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses

The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a building-block method in
which best- estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected returns, net of pension plan investment expense
and inflation) are developed for each major asset class. These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate
of return by weighting the expected future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage including expected
inflation. Best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for each major asset class included in the pension plan’s target
asset allocation as of the December 31, 2014 measurement date.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

73
Packet Pg. 183

Mortality Rates for Annuities (60% Election Assumption)
Healthy: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants. Disabled: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree
Mortality Tables
Mortality Rates for Lump Sums (40% Election Assumption)
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male / 30% female for participants and 30% male /
70% female for beneficiaries.
The actuarial assumptions used in the January 1, 2014 valuation were based on the results of an actuarial experience
study covering the period January 1, 2009 - December 31, 2013.
Discount Rate
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.50%. The projection of cash flows used to determine
the discount rate assumed that RTD contributions will be equal to the actuarially determined contribution rate for the
applicable fiscal years. Based on those assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available
to make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected rate of return on
pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to determine the total pension liability.
The below table reflects assumed long-term expected real rates of return over a 30-year horizon upon which the disclosure
is based:
Asset Class
Domestic Equity
International Equity
Fixed Income
Real Estate
Cash

Long-Term Expected Real Rate
of Return
8.7%
9.7%
1.5%
10.1%
N/A

Target Asset Allocation
50%
10%
30%
10%
N/A

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

74
Packet Pg. 184

Changes in the Net Pension Liability
(in thousands)

Balances at 12/31/2014
Changes for the year:
Service Cost
Interest
Differences between expected and actual experience
Assumption Changes
Contributions-employer
Net investment income
Benefit payments, including refunds of employee contributions
Administrative expense
Other changes
Net Changes
Balances at 12/31/2015

Total Pension
Liability
(a)
$
125,723

Increase (Decrease)
Plan Fiduciary Net
Position
(b)
$
124,993

Net Pension
Liability
(a) - (b)
$
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
139,953

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
130,010

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(3,100)
(9,078)
127
9,213
9,943

$

$

$

Sensitivity of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following presents the net pension liability of the Plan, calculated using the discount rate of 7.50%, as well as what
the Plan’s net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is 1-percentage-point lower
(6.50%) or 1-percentage-point higher (8.50%) than the current rate:

Plan’s Net Pension Liability/Assets

1% Decrease
(6.50%)
$ 22,167

Current Discount
Rate (7.50%)
$ 9,943

1% Increase
(8.50%)
$ (638)

Pension Expense and Deferred Outflows of Resources and Deferred Inflows of Resources
For the year ended 2015 the employer recognized pension expense of $2,508. The employer reported deferred outflows and
inflows of $9,805 of resources related from pensions from the following resources.
Deferred Outflows of
Resources
$ 1,592
4,998
115
3,100
$ 9,805

Differences in experience
Differences in assumptions
Excess(deficit) Investment Returns
Contributions subsequent to the measurement date*
Total

Deferred Inflows of
Resources
$
$
-

*The amount reported as deferred outflows of resources resulting from employer contributions subsequent to the measurement
date will be recognized as a reduction in the Pension Expense for the year ending 2016.
Amounts reported as deferred outflow and inflows of resources related to pension will be recognized in pension expense as
follows:

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

75
Packet Pg. 185

Year Ended
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total

$ 5,765
2,665
1,347
28
$ 9,805

RTD Plan – Defined Contribution
Plan Description
The RTD defined contribution plan represents full-time salaried employees hired after January 1, 2008. The RTD Board adopted
amendment No. 8, effective January 1, 2008. RTD contributes 9% of the employee’s qualifying wage. Contributions totaled
$3,476 and $2,870 in 2016 and 2015, respectively. RTD employees cannot contribute to the Plan. Membership was 520 and
474 active employees in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
The Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust was formed pursuant to a Trust Agreement effective
July 1, 1971, between Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 (ATU 1001) and an agent of a transit enterprise owned by
the City and County of Denver, through July 3, 1974, and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) thereafter. In addition
to the original Denver Metro Division, employees of other RTD divisions have been approved for participation in the Trust
benefits. The Trust agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all its terms and provisions so long as there continues
to be a collective bargaining agreement between the Union and RTD.
The Trust provides health benefits (hospital, medical, dental, vision, life and short-term disability) for represented employees
of RTD and certain officers of ATU 1001 and health care benefits for retired employees actively working 600 hours or more
per quarter. The Trust is funded through contribution by the employer and employee, the share of benefit plan contributions is
set by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). RTD’s contribution was $19,025 and $16,848 for the years ended
December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Trust also provides insurance coverage for felonious assault for each
employee and funds the Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Legal Services Trust. The Trust self-insures part of its
health benefits, life insurance coverage and short-term disability. The plan issues audited financial statements, which include
financial information for the plan. The financial statements may be obtained from the plan: RTD ATU 1001 Health and Welfare
Trust, 2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 215 Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602.
Unearned Compensation Plan
RTD offers its employees an unearned compensation plan (the Plan), created in accordance with Internal Revenue Code
Section 457, which is available to substantially all employees and permits them to defer a portion of their compensation to
future years. Under the terms of the Plan, the unearned compensation is available to participants upon termination, retirement,
death or in the event of an unforeseeable emergency or other financial hardship.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

76
Packet Pg. 186

Compensated Absences
RTD considers all accrued compensated absences as due within one year. Employees accrue paid time off (PTO), vacation, and
sick leave based on time in service; employees are not allowed to accumulate more than twice their annual PTO or vacation
accrual and sick leave based on years of service. Employees are paid any outstanding compensated absence balances upon
leaving RTD. RTD records these accrued compensated absences as current liabilities under the principle of conservatism by
assuming these amounts are the most RTD would be obligated to pay in the near-term.
Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2016, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2015
Balance
$ 2,560
10,171
$12,731

2016
Accruals
$ 1,685
6,670
$ 8,355

2016
Payments
$ 1,592
6,308
$ 7,900

12/31/2016
Balance
$ 2,653
10,533
$13,186

2015
Payments
$ 1,491
5,882
$ 7,373

12/31/2015
Balance
$ 2,560
10,171
$12,731

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2015, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated absences due

12/31/2014
Balance
$ 2,459
9,745
$12,204

2015
Accruals
$ 1,592
6,308
$ 7,900

The accrued compensation liabilities of $21,705 and $19,953 as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, include
$8,519 and $7,222 of accrued wages, salaries, and fringe benefits in addition to accrued compensated absences.
NOTE G – OPERATING LEASES – LESSOR
Union Station Alliance (USA) Lease
In December 2012, RTD entered a contract with Union Station Alliance (USA) to renovate and lease RTD’s historic Denver
Union Station Building. The renovation by USA included a hotel, Amtrak facilities, office space, retail and restaurant services
as well as renovation of the Great Train Hall. The renovations were complete and open to the public in July 2014. The
agreement includes a 60-year lease to USA to operate and maintain the facility in which RTD will participate in certain revenue
collections.
NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
Operating Lease – Civic Center Transfer Facility
In 1976, RTD entered into an operating lease for a portion of the land on which the Civic Center transfer facility is located in
downtown Denver. As collateral for the lease, RTD must maintain an account balance with a minimum market value of $1,500 in
an escrow account, the interest on which accrues to RTD until the lease expires. This amount in escrow is included in restricted
assets in the accompanying financial statements.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

77
Packet Pg. 187

Fixed rental commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31, 2016, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022-2026
2027-2031
2032-2036
2037-2041
2042-2046
2047-2051
2052-2056
2057-2061
2062-2066
2067-2071
2072-2075

$ 262
265
267
270
273
1,405
1,477
1,552
1,631
1,714
1,802
1,893
1,990
2,091
2,198
1,839
$ 20,929

Rental expense relating to this lease amounted to $259 and $257 for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015,
respectively.
Operating Lease – Purchased Transportation
RTD has entered into a number of transactions in which certain of its light rail vehicles have been leased to and subleased
back from certain U.S. and foreign companies and has entered into a transaction in which its maintenance facilities have been
leased to and subleased back. As part of these transactions, RTD irrevocably set aside certain monies (which were received
from each counter party as payment for its leasing of light rail vehicles and real property) with a third party trustee.
The monies held by such trustees will be utilized to make the lease payments owed by the RTD under the transactions and are
therefore considered fully funded and economically defeased.
Capital Projects
As of December 31, 2016, RTD has contracts for the construction of various capital projects and the purchase of buses and
light rail vehicles. The costs to complete these projects and the purchase of buses/light rail vehicles total $560,716 and
$461,864 in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Grant Match Requirements
Under the provisions of current grants, RTD is obligated to satisfy certain matching requirements of these grants. At
December 31, 2016, RTD had a commitment to provide $253,704 in matching funds in order to receive $298,811 in future
federal and state grant funds.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

78
Packet Pg. 188

Privatization Contracts
In response to the privatization legislation (Note A), RTD has awarded contracts for specific groups of routes, not to exceed
58% as required by law for vehicular services. As of January 2017, slightly over 54.33% of RTD’s non-rail transit services
are delivered by private contractors operating under the auspices and direction of RTD.
ADA Paratransit Service
With the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), RTD was mandated to provide paratransit service to
the disabled individuals unable to use RTD’s fixed route buses, operating the same days and hours of service as the fixed route
service. This service, called Access-a-Ride, is a curb-to-curb (with door-to-door assistance upon special request) transportation
system offered to disabled individuals who cannot functionally use RTD’s regular fixed route system. Passengers eligible for
Access-a-Ride service must originate their trip within 3/4 of a mile of an RTD non-commuter fixed route. Since September
1996, RTD has been in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirement to provide paratransit
service to the disabled individuals unable to use fixed route buses.
Future Commitments under Construction Contracts
In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance and operate several of the transit improvements
contemplated under the FasTracks program, including the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East Rail Corridor, the Gold
Line Rail Corridor and the electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Corridor (together, the “Eagle P3 Project). The Eagle P3
Project is being delivered and operated under a concession agreement that RTD has entered with a concessionaire that has
been selected through a competitive proposal process. The selected concessionaire is known as Denver Transit Partners (DTP),
a special purpose company owned by Fluor Enterprises, Uberior Investments and Laing Investments.
The Eagle P3 Project construction will be completed in two phases with Phase I completed in 2016 and Phase II completed in
2017. Under the terms of the Eagle P3 Project agreement, RTD will make scheduled construction payments to DTP each year
from 2011 through 2017 for completed project elements. RTD will assume ownership of the Eagle P3 Project elements as
they are constructed. In addition, RTD will make scheduled secured principal and interest payments to DTP from 2017 through
2044 for the remaining Eagle P3 Project obligation. The Eagle P3 Project agreement also includes a provision whereby, upon
project completion and placement in service, DTP will operate and maintain the Eagle P3 Project during the period 2016 through
2044 for which RTD will make service payments.
In 2012, RTD entered a contract with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to complete the 10.5-mile I-225 light rail line, extending
from the currently existing Nine Mile station to connect the Southeast Line to the East Line. The I-225 Line is being completed
in coordination with the Colorado Department of Transportation’s I-225 highway project and opened in February 2017 to
provide connectivity to major activity centers like the Aurora City Center, Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Center and Denver
International Airport through a transfer at Peoria to the East Rail Line.
In 2013, RTD entered a contract with Regional Rail Partners to construct the North Metro Rail Line. The North Metro Rail
Line is an 18.5-mile electric commuter rail line that will run from Denver Union Station through Commerce City, Thornton and
Northglenn to Highway 7 at 162nd Avenue in North Adams County. The North Metro Rail Line is scheduled to open in 2018.
In 2014, RTD entered a contract with Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc. to design and construct the Southeast Rail Extension
Project. The Southeast Rail Extension includes 2.3 miles extending of the existing Southeast Light rail Line from Lincoln Station
through the City of Lone Tree to RidgeGate Parkway Station featuring a new Park-n-Ride with a structure of 1,300 parking
spaces. The Southeast Rail Extension is scheduled to open in 2019.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

79
Packet Pg. 189

Future Commitments under Service Contracts
The fixed commitments under the Privatization contracts (bus) in the years subsequent to December 31, 2016 are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total

$ 91,212
93,313
84,072
43,400
28,883
$ 340,880

Denver Transit Partner’s concessionaire service payment commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31,
2016, are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022-2026
2027-2031
2032-2036
2037-2041
2042-2044

$

82,168
84,989
111,726
122,077
105,193
621,636
707,673
864,355
941,373
470,519

$ 4,111,709
Diesel Fuel Contract
RTD contracts with Mansfield Oil Co of Gainesville, Inc. for diesel fuel. The contract is structured as a single year contract.
The fixed commitment under the Mansfield contract in 2017 is $16,225. RTD estimates usage of 9.6 million gallons at unit
cost of $1.6902 per gallon: 5.76 million gallons of RTD’s usage and 3.84 million gallons of RTD private carrier’s usage.
Contingencies
Federal Grants
RTD receives federal grants for capital projects and operating assistance, which are subject to audit by FTA. Although the
outcome of any such audit cannot be predicted, it is management’s opinion these audits will not result in liabilities to such an
extent that they would materially affect RTD’s financial position.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

80
Packet Pg. 190

Self-Insurance
RTD is self-insured for general liability and Workers’ Compensation claims. Liabilities are reported when it is probable that a
loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit
option as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are incurred.
RTD does not carry excess liability insurance for personal injury and property damage. Under the provisions of the Colorado
Government Immunity Act, the maximum liability, with certain exceptions as defined in the Act, to RTD for claims involving
personal injury and property damage is $350 per individual and $990 per incident.
For Workers’ Compensation, an excess coverage insurance policy covers individual claims in excess of $2,000. The amount
of settlements has not exceeded insurance coverage in any of the past three years.
RTD’s liability for unpaid claims includes an amount for claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). RTD’s Risk
Management determines incurred claims by investigating the accident and establishing a reserve. Reserves are established on
the day of assignment, reviewed at 30 days and again at 90 days. Reserves are reviewed every 90 days thereafter and based
on ultimate exposure. This amount is included in other accrued expenses in the statement of net assets. Changes in the
balances of claims liabilities for both general liability and Worker’s Compensation during the past year are as follows:

Unpaid claims, January 1, 2015
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

Auto Liability
$
2,691
3,052
(2,162)

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2015
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments
Unpaid claims, December 31, 2016*

Workers'
Compensation
Total
$
2,845 $
5,536
4,264
7,316
(3,177)
(5,339)

3,581
3,966
(3,337)
$

4,210

3,932
5,278
(4,539)
$

4,671

7,513
9,244
(7,876)
$

8,881

*All claim liabilities are considered current liabilities payable within one year.
Contract Disputes and Legal Proceedings
RTD is party to a number of pending or threatened tort lawsuits, workers’ compensation claims, or labor/employment claims
under which it may be required to pay certain amounts upon final disposition of these matters. RTD also has certain contract
disputes being considered in contractual dispute resolution proceedings. RTD’s legal counsel estimates that the ultimate
outcome of these matters is sufficiently covered by RTD’s general liability or workers’ compensation reserves, project
contingencies, or insurance, or would not otherwise materially affect the financial statements of RTD.
RTD is party to a lawsuit in which the plaintiffs/appellants seek to hold unconstitutional a 2013 state statute that made
several adjustments to the items upon which RTD and the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District could and could not collect
sales tax. The plaintiffs maintained that voter approval was required. The state District Court granted summary judgment in
favor of RTD and the other defendants (SCFD and the Colorado Department of Revenue). The plaintiffs appealed to the state
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the District Court’s ruling. The appellants have now sought discretionary Colorado Supreme
Court review, and the Supreme Court has decided to hear the appeal. If the District Court’s decision is reversed and the statute

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

81
Packet Pg. 191

is ruled unconstitutional, RTD may no longer be authorized to collect certain taxes and may possibly have to refund some taxes
previously collected together with interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees.
RTD is party to a lawsuit alleging that RTD has violated the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act by purchasing and operating light rail vehicles that do not meet the USDOT design specifications and that
do not allow sufficient room for wheelchairs to board and maneuver. The complaint also alleges a pattern and practice of
discrimination in RTD's operation of its light rail service by not ensuring sufficient room for passengers in wheelchairs to board.
Plaintiffs are seeking an injunction that potentially could require RTD to retrofit its fleet of light rail vehicles to remove seating
and expand the area for wheelchairs. In addition, Plaintiffs are seeking attorneys' fees and costs. The parties have executed
a class settlement agreement and have submitted the matter to the court for preliminary approval; thereafter, the parties will
petition the court for final judgment of the class settlement. RTD's costs for the settlement will be handled within RTD's
budget.
NOTE I – NET POSITION

December 31,
2016

Invested in capital assets, net of related debt

$

3,461,952

2015
$

3,274,663

Restricted net position
Restricted debt service
Restricted TABOR
Restricted FasTracks
Restricted Other
Total restricted net position

142,564
21,609
(90,794)
1,500
74,879

114,395
20,284
(34,639)
1,500
101,540

Unrestricted net position
Unrestricted - represented net pension liability*
Unrestricted - salaried net pension liability
Unrestricted net position
Total unrestricted net position

(312,980)
(7,399)
105,900
(214,479)

(284,175)
(138)
85,048
(199,265)

Total net position

$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

* Note: RTD has included the full amount of the actuarially determined net pension liability for the
represented pension plan, in accordance with financial reporting requirements. RTD is current in making
all required contributions under the collective bargaining agreement.

NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA
RTD’s annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds
of long-term debt and capital grants as revenue and expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal payments, and
excludes TABOR rebates under Amendment One, extraordinary loss and depreciation on, as well as gains and losses on
disposition of, property and equipment. The budget sets forth all proposed outlays for operations, planning, administration,
development, debt service, and capital outlays for the fiscal year. Prior to October 15, the General Manager submits to the
Board of Directors a proposed operating and capital budget for the fiscal year commencing the following January 1, which is
made available for public inspection and comment. On or before December 31, the budget is adopted in conjunction with an
appropriation resolution by the Board of Directors, who must also approve subsequent amendments thereto. In the absence

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

82
Packet Pg. 192

of such adoption, RTD has authority to begin making expenditures limited to 90% of the prior year’s approved appropriation.
RTD’s policy on budget transfers authorizes the General Manager to approve certain transfers within the budget.
A reconciliation for the years ended December 31 of the annual budget, as amended, to actual revenue and expenses is as
follows:
Revenues and Proceeds
Revenue, actual
Proceeds from debt/arbitrage relief
Federal capital grants and local contributions
Revenue, actual (budgetary basis)

2016
$

$

803,320
314,174
202,235
1,319,729

$

755,349
299,688
169,313
1,224,350

$

1,509,420

$

1,431,648

$

$

$

860,140
693,159
(222,154)
133,098
1,464,243

$

742,463
870,055
(152,531)
54,348
1,514,335

Appropriations, budget

$

2,213,487

$

2,507,386

Unused appropriations

$

749,244

$

993,051

Revenue, budget
Expenditures
Expenses, actual
Capital outlays
Depreciation, amortization, other
Long-term debt principal payments
Expenditures, actual (budgetary basis)

$

2015

Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except the Board of Directors has the authority, as stated in the adopted appropriation
resolution, to carry over the unused portion of funds for capital projects not completed, for a period not to exceed three years.
As of December 31, 2016, there was approximately $749,244 of unused 2016 appropriations for capital outlays available for
carryover to 2017.
NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS
In November 1992, Colorado voters passed an amendment (Amendment 1) to the State Constitution (Article X, Section 20)
that limits the revenue raising and spending abilities of state and local governments known as the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights
(TABOR). The limits on property taxes, revenue, and “fiscal year spending” include allowable annual increases tied to inflation
and local growth in construction valuation. Fiscal year spending as defined by the amendment excludes spending from certain
revenue and financing sources such as federal funds, gifts, property sales, fund transfers, damage awards, and fund reserves
(balances). The amendment requires voter approval for any increase in mill levy tax rates, new taxes, or creation of multi-year
debt. Revenue earned in excess of the “spending limit” must be refunded to the taxpayers unless voters approve retention of
these revenues. In addition, the amendment mandates that reserves equal 3% of fiscal spending be established for declared
emergencies.
On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted the Regional Transportation District from the revenue and spending
limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further
exempted RTD from the revenue and spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt
incurred to finance the Southeast Corridor light rail project or to operate such project for as long as any debt remains
outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in RTD’s sales and use tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%,
effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit improvement program. This authorization also exempted RTD
from any revenue and spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the increased tax
revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the FasTracks program. At the time
that all FasTracks debt is repaid, RTD’s sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the rapid transit

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

83
Packet Pg. 193

system financed through FasTracks. RTD has $3.477 billion in authorized debt, subject to the Amendments’ limitations. This
debt was authorized by the voters of the District in 2004 to pay for the FasTracks rapid transit improvement program. Based
on estimated fiscal year spending for 2016, $21,609 of year-end net position has been reserved for emergencies.
The Amendment is complex and subject to judicial interpretation. RTD believes it is in compliance with the requirements of
the Amendment based on the interpretations of the Amendment’s language available at year-end.
NOTE L – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On February 3, 2017, RTD refunded the Series 2010 FasTracks Sales Tax Revenue Bonds used for the Denver Union Station
Project Authority project. The refunding was completed for both principle and interest savings.
On February 24, 2017, RTD began light rail service with the 10.5 mile R Line connecting the existing track at Nine Mile Station
to the Peoria Station as part of the FasTracks Project.
RTD’s commuter rail service is operating under a waiver from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) which allows RTD’s
commuter rail service to continue operations while certain modifications to grade-level crossing gates are completed. The
waiver is subject to expiration, modification or renewal at the discretion of the FRA and may impact the services provided by
RTD.

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

84
Packet Pg. 194

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

85

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 195

13.91%

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered-Employee Payroll

2015

12.69%

84,774

7,994

18,752
10,758

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

There were no benefit changes during the year.

86

January 1, 2016
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of July 1 each year for implementation the following fiscal year. Actual contributions are made pursuant to a collective bargaining
agreement.
Entry Age Normal
Level Percentage of Payroll, Open
30 years
5-Year smoothed market, 0% corridor
3.00%
7.00% During first 5 years of service, 3.00% after five years of service
7.00%
Experience-based table of rates that is specific to the type of eligibility condition. Last updated for the 2015 valuation pursuant to an experience study of the period 2012-2014.
RP-2000 Combined Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.
RP-2000 Disabled Mortality Table, generational projected with Scale AA.

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age
Healthy Mortality
Disabled Mortality
Other Information:
Notes

Valuation Date:
Notes

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two
years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

82,994

Covered-Employee Payroll

17,131 $
11,542
5,589

$

20161

Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution

ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plans Summary
As of December 31,

Required Supplementary Information

Packet Pg. 196

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

435.29%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

367.65%

84,774

40.76%

311,672

10,758
3,586
11,779
(24,312)
(355)
1,456
213,008
214,464

11,937
27,714
(6,476)
28,879
(24,312)
37,742
488,394
526,136

2015

2014

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

87

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two years.
Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

82,994

Covered-Employee Payroll

361,264 $

11,542 $
3,868
(1,829)
(25,439)
(391)
(12,249) $
214,464
202,215 $

13,074 $
26,324
(4,711)
28,095
(25,439)
37,343 $
526,136
563,479 $

35.89%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

20161

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

ATU 1001 Pension Plan

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

Packet Pg. 197

2007

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

9.92%

10.04%

30,880

5,682
3,100
2,582

2015

2014

2013

2009

Mortality (Lump Sums)

Mortality (Annuities)

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion.

88

401(a) 17 compensation and 415 limits are assumed to increase with inflation.
Turnover: 0.00% - 10.43%, based on age
Disablement: 0.06% - 1.63%, based on age
Expenses: $165 per year payable monthly

2010

Other Information:

2011

January 1, 2015
Actuarially determined contribution rates are calculated as of January 1, twelve months prior to end of the fiscal year in which contributions are reported.
Entry Age
Level dollar, fixed and declining 20 years.
16 years
Smoothed over 5 years, based on Actuarial Value of Assets expected return.
3.00%
4.75%-9.75%
7.50%, net of investment expenses
Age
Rate
55
15.00%
55-61
10.00%
62
25.00%
63-64
15.00%
65-66
40.00%
67 or older
100.00%
Vested inactive participants are assumed to retire at age 62.
Healthy Participants: RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy employees and annuitants
Disabled Participants: RP-2014 Disabled Retiree Tables
RP-2014 Blue Collar Mortality Tables for healthy annuitants, blended 70% male/30% female for participants and 30% male / 70% female for beneficiaries.

2012

Valuation Date:
Notes
Actuarial Cost Method
Amortization Method
Remaining Amortization Period
Asset Valuation Method
Inflation
Salary Increases
Investment Rate of Return
Retirement Age

Actuarial Methods and Assumptions Used to Calculate Actuarially Determine Contribution Union:

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only currently available for two
years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

Contribution as a Percentage of Covered-Employee Payroll

6,768 $
3,100
3,668
31,257

$

20161

Covered-Employee Payroll

Period Ending December 31,
Actuarially Determined Contribution
Actual Contribution
Contribution Deficiency (Excess)

RTD Salaried Pension Plan

(in thousands)

Last 10 Fiscal Years

Schedule of Contributions Multiyear

2008

2007

Packet Pg. 198

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

92.12%

Plan's Net Pension Liability as a Percentage of CoveredEmployee Payroll

32.20%

30,880

92.90%

9,943

3,100
9,078
(7,034)
(127)
5,017
124,993
130,010
730

2,673
9,366
2,228
6,997
(7,034)
14,230
125,723
139,953

2015

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion.

This schedule is required by GASB 68 to show information for a 10 year period. However, information is only
currently available for two years. Additional years will be presented as they become available.

1

31,257

Covered-Employee Payroll

28,794 $

3,100 $
(610)
(9,582)
(141)
(7,233) $
130,010
122,777 $
730

3,342 $
10,388
3,869
3,601
(9,582)
11,618 $
139,953
151,571 $

81.00%

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

20161

Plan Fiduciary Net Position as a Percentage of the Total
Pension Liability (b) / (a)

Plan's Net Pension Liability - Ending (a) - (b)

Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Contributions - RTD
Contributions - Members
Net Investment Income
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Administrative Expenses
Other
Net Change in Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Beginning
Plan Fiduciary Net Position - Ending (b)
Plan's Net Pension Liability - Beginning

RTD Salaried Pension Plan
Period Ending December 31,
Total Pension Liability
Service Cost
Interest
Changes to Benefit Terms
Differences Between Expected and Actual Experience
Assumption Changes
Benefit Payments, Including Lump Sums
Net Change in Total Pension Liability
Total Pension Liability - Beginning
Total Pension Liability - Ending (a)

Schedule of Changes in the Plan’s Net Pension Liability and Related Ratios Multiyear
Last 10 Fiscal Years
(in thousands)
2014

89

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

Packet Pg. 199

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

90

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 200

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSE AND REVENUE
BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS
Year Ended December 31, 2016
(In Thousands)
Adopted
Budget
Operating revenue
Passenger fares
Other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses

$

Operating loss
Nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/unrealized loss capital assets
Total nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Proceeds from debt
Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants
Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficiency) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital
outlays and debt principal payments
$
Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenses
Proceeds from debt
Long-term debt principal payment
Depreciation
INCREASE IN NET POSITION

Final
Budget

Variance positive
(negative)

Actual

158,073 $
5,384
163,457

130,173 $
4,797
134,970

134,622
5,803
140,425

162,560
58,779
58,556
141,244
21,487
7,740
176,361
3,732
4,969
635,428

163,836
59,130
60,001
139,385
19,382
7,665
175,696
3,557
9,601
638,253

163,650
96,389
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457

186
(37,259)
7,821
80,825
5,162
(2,717)
19,091
269
5,418
78,796

(471,971)

(503,283)

(419,032)

84,251

590,487
83,763
1,240
11,029
(117,313)
569,206
413,025

569,763
96,767
3,840
20,200
(117,313)
573,257
457,091

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365
314,174

(6,165)
(19,432)
2,531
(10,273)
5,664
40,041
(1,258)
11,108
(142,917)

1,605,069
(271,159)
1,333,910
(61,698)

1,396,223
(258,089)
1,138,134
(61,698)

693,159
(202,235)
490,924
(133,098)

(703,064)
55,854
(647,210)
(71,400)

(885,348) $

(672,767)

(144,515)

$

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion

91

693,159
(314,174)
133,098
(222,154)
145,414

$

$

4,449
1,006
5,455

528,252

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

Packet Pg. 201

STATISTICAL SECTION

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

11.B.a

This part of the Regional Transportation District’s comprehensive annual financial report presents detailed information as a context for
understanding what the information in the financial statements, note disclosure, and required supplementary information says about
the government’s overall financial health.
Contents

Page

Financial Trends

93-95

These tables contain trend information to help the reader understand how the government’s financial performance and well-being
have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity

96

These tables contain information to help the reader assess the government’s most significant revenue source.
Debt Capacity

97-98

These tables contain information to help the reader asses the affordability of the government’s current levels of outstanding debt
and the government’s ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Operating Information

99

These tables contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader understand how the information in the financial report
relates to service the government provides and the activities it performs. The demographic and economic indicators help the reader
understand the environment within which the government’s financial activities take place.

92
Packet Pg. 202

1

$ 3,322,352

18,842

19,193
155,345
174,538

$ 2,987,694

2014

53,218

18,304
117,827
136,131

$ 2,788,100

2013

45,782

17,451
316,711
334,162

$ 2,348,966

2012

46,199

16,392
491,313
507,705

$ 1,872,790

2011

166,299

15,486
424,348
439,834

$ 1,597,631

2010

132,035

15,158
442,489
457,647

$ 1,456,493

2009

143,913

16,821
393,223
410,044

$ 1,338,453

2008

186,280

16,829
412,822
429,651

$ 1,162,486

2007

Table 1

93

$ 3,176,938 $ 3,181,074 $ 2,977,449 $ 2,728,910 $ 2,426,694 $ 2,203,764 $ 2,046,175 $ 1,892,410 $ 1,778,417

(199,265)

20,284
81,256
101,540

21,609
53,270
74,879

(214,479)

$ 3,274,663

2015

$ 3,461,952

2016

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Total net position

Unrestricted net position (note I)

Invested in capital assets,
net of related debt (Note I)
Restricted (Note I)
Emergencies
Debt and other
Total restricted net position

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
NET POSITION BY COMPONENT 1 (In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 203

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)
548,364
12,886
169,313
182,199
3,181,074

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)
584,365

(56,821)

Capital grants and local contribution 202,235
Increase in Net Position
145,414
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
3,176,938
(as previously reported)
Change in accounting principle,
(note A)
Net Position, Beginning of Year,
(as restated)
Prior Period Adjustment
Net Position at End of Year
$3,322,352
$3,176,938

2,994,739

(186,335)

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531
508,824
(382,947)
152,531
(535,478)

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183
559,457
(419,032)
222,154
(641,186)

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses
Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation
Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss A
Total Nonoperating Income
Net income before
capital grants and local contributio

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
2016
2015
Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
$ 134,622 $ 120,530
Other
5,803
5,347
Total Operating Revenues
140,425
125,877

$3,181,074

206,431
203,625
2,977,449

(2,806)

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

$2,977,449

242,566
248,539
2,728,910

5,973

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481
(388,441)
127,256
(515,697)

$ 117,841
5,199
123,040

$ 120,497
4,406
124,903
204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057
(395,154)
139,045
(534,199)

2013

2014

$2,728,910

311,676
302,216
2,426,694

(9,460)

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008
(373,746)
115,269
(489,015)

$ 112,929
5,333
118,262

2012

2010

107,478
157,589
2,046,175

50,111

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)
448,042

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315
396,111
(293,755)
104,176
(397,931)

94

(92,217)
$2,426,694 $2,203,764

238,292
315,147
2,203,764

76,855

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331
(283,952)
104,280
(388,232)

$ 108,497 $ 97,942
4,882
4,414
113,379
102,356

2011

131,711
153,765
1,892,410

22,054

371,405
68,146
29,379
3,243
40
(34,179)
(23,037)
414,997

161,747
56,835
42,783
9,512
3,767
103,975
2,680
6,866
388,165
(286,918)
106,025
(392,943)

96,890
4,357
101,247

$2,046,175

$

2009

39,389
113,993
1,778,417

74,604

412,824
50,814
52,456
3,106
1
(56,273)
(977)
461,951

155,799
61,056
36,835
10,575
5,333
102,743
2,464
2,619
377,424
(285,095)
102,252
(387,347)

88,205 $
4,124
92,329

115,133
222,344
1,556,073

107,211

418,407
47,040
57,471
4,706
1,055
(52,272)
(861)
475,546

150,560
49,157
30,654
8,678
5,090
97,819
2,195
2,390
346,543
(265,033)
103,302
(368,335)

77,128
4,382
81,510

2007

$1,892,410 $1,778,417

$

2008

Table 2

Packet Pg. 204

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

2

1

Planning,
Administrative
and Development
$
43,916
52,492
61,841
77,360
64,030
77,115
81,781
83,152
81,356
89,452
Depreciation
$
103,302
102,252
106,025
104,176
104,280
115,269
127,256
139,045
152,531
222,154

Interest
Expense2
$ 52,272
56,273
34,179
48,735
51,274
51,371
61,223
72,293
79,686
77,272

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTD capitalizes certain interest costs, which are included in capital outlays.

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Transit
Operating
Expenses2
$
302,626
324,931
326,324
318,751
333,301
414,893
429,700
436,905
427,468
470,005

(In Thousands)

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES AND CAPITAL OUTLAYS1

95

Other
Nonoperating
Expenses
861
$
977
23,037
5,145
6,251
4,895
4,146
3,605
1,422
1,258
Capital
Outlays2
$
156,785
282,758
410,354
712,552
616,953
702,119
769,359
862,701
870,055
693,159
$

Total
659,762
819,683
961,760
1,266,719
1,176,089
1,365,662
1,473,465
1,597,701
1,612,518
1,553,300

Table 3

Packet Pg. 205

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

Sales/Use
Tax
$
418,407
412,824
371,405
397,549
415,180
449,787
468,586
514,721
541,518
563,598

Grant
Operating
Assistance
$
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Operating
Revenues
$
81,510
92,329
101,247
102,356
113,379
118,262
123,040
124,903
125,877
140,425

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
REVENUE BY SOURCE1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

Interest
Income
$ 57,471
52,456
29,379
8,065
6,484
2,613
2,040
165
3,164
6,371
$

Other
4,706
3,106
3,283
3,653
11,356
14,494
28,170
16,861
11,407
15,591

96

Total
Revenue
$ 609,135
611,529
573,460
604,278
635,991
654,083
710,079
732,194
755,349
803,320

Capital
Grants
$ 107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324

Local
Contributions
$
7,558
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911

Total Revenue
and Capital Grant
& Contributions
$
724,270
650,918
705,171
711,756
874,283
965,759
952,645
938,625
924,662
1,005,555

Table 4

Packet Pg. 206

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

84,821

84,101

83,490

2014

2015

2016

$

76,786

2013

14,502

13,714

13,711

28,973

28,451

31,285

43,502

57,226

62,373

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

14,428

Interest

2008

2007

70,752

2012

$

27,043

26,438

25,712

20,725

26,211

25,010

44,511

44,430

45,505

38,590

Principal
$

110,533

110,539

110,533

97,511

96,963

95,656

90,835

87,640

90,449

87,035

Total

$

34,655

27,910

31,290

25,735

28,575

25,955

26,725

18,340

17,515

17,105

Principal
$

97,028

85,136

74,792

57,020

57,026

54,928

40,436

32,054

32,017

31,533

Total

Certificate of Participation Debt Service Requirements

46,324

70,646

2010

2011

43,210

2009

48,445

44,944

$

Interest

2008

2007

97

$

LAST TEN YEARS (UNADUITED)

Sales Tax Bond Debt Service Requirements2

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS1
(In Thousands)

Sales Tax

563,598

541,518

514,721

514,721

449,787

415,180

397,549

371,405

412,824

418,407

Collections

5.10

4.90

4.66

5.28

4.64

4.34

4.38

4.24

4.56

4.81

Ratio

Coverage

Table 5

Packet Pg. 207

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

56,924

60,035

99,619

99,203

108,071

128,323

141,327

145,863

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

$

61,698

54,338

57,002

46,460

54,786

50,965

71,236

62,770

63,020

55,695

Principal
$

207,561

195,665

185,325

154,531

153,989

150,584

131,271

119,694

122,466

118,568

Total
$

98

Source: The financial records of RTD and the Offical Statements of the respective debt issues.

59,446

62,873

2009

$

Interest

Total Debt Service Requirements

2008

2007

(In Thousands)

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS (Continued)

1,005,555

924,662

938,645

952,645

965,494

874,283

654,083

573,460

611,528

609,135

Revenue

Total

4.84

4.73

5.08

6.16

6.27

5.81

4.98

4.79

4.99

5.14

Ratio

Coverage

Packet Pg. 208

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

3

2

1

76,257,759
101,776,337

102,991,663
119,076

131,221
5,550,000
1,021
1,021
779
1,955
834
7

71,345,729

100,248,216

101,322,384

120,613

136,677
5,550,000
1,023
1,023

779
2,034
834
7

344,348

338,363
62,833,246

331,580

59,005,677

255,696

252,034

236,573

735
1,929
821
7

119,706
5,550,000
1,011
1,011

107,635

104,987,248

103,851,061

77,464,530

63,935,032

211,702

208,086

197,637

2,870,000
40
2,340
45,746,927
9,751
138
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
9

2014

2,870,000
40
2,340
47,575,444
9,566
137
65
18
15
20
5
13
4
8

2015

2,920,000
40
2,342
44,368,116
9,077
172
124
16
16
3
13
4
5

2016

752
1,901
785
6

118,385
5,600,000
992
992

106,709

101,966,009

100,844,239

77,079,604

63,010,579

335,391

254,071

208,387

2,800,000
40
2,340
45,246,715
9,509
136
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
7

2013

700
1,715
779
6

139,083
5,400,000
998
998

129,517

99,122,065

97,959,296

77,320,228

63,640,443

326,747

255,501

210,811

2,800,000
40
2,340
38,824,067
9,841
145
71
11
17
17
5
13
4
7

2012

697
1,785
797
6

126,849
5,400,000
969
969

117,261

98,384,882

97,272,342

76,577,627

61,634,723

325,900

254,197

205,504

2,800,000
40
2,348
42,996,614
9,698
138
64
11
16
17
5
12
4
9

2011

99

Source: Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. All other data comes from the financial records of RTD.
Reflects total Mile, including Light Rail.
Excludes purchased transportation services.

January 1 population within RTD
service area1
Cities and towns served
Square miles in service area
Total miles 2
Passenger stops
Number of fixed routes
Local
Limited
Express
Regional
Skyride
Boulder City
Longmont City
Miscellaneous
Ridership average weekday,
without Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA, and Van Pool
Total annual boardings without
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and ADA
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA service, and Van Pool
Daily miles operated (average weekday),
including Mall Shuttle
Daily miles operated (average
weekday), including Mall Shuttle
and Light Rail
Diesel fuel consumption, gallons 3
Total active buses
Wheelchair lift equipped buses
Number of employees 3
Salaried
Represented (includes part-time)
Fleet requirements ( peak hours)
Operating facilities 3

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

DEMOGRAPHIC AND OPERATING DATA

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

696
1,744
806
6

134,294
5,200,000
1,025
1,025

124,248

97,724,928

96,657,335

76,825,609

62,902,963

323,311

255,068

209,172

2,800,000
40
2,348
41,449,988
10,140
148
66
11
20
16
5
14
7
9

2010

664
1,802
830
6

159,824
5,400,000
1,050
1,050

149,750

98,746,429

97,687,476

77,928,088

63,578,004

328,291

259,873

212,758

2,800,000
40
2,348
48,862,622
10,199
150
67
11
20
16
5
15
7
9

2009

623
1,903
862
6

163,987
6,000,000
1,039
1,039

152,848

104,071,339

103,362,667

82,727,534

67,910,015

344,954

273,737

224,918

2,760,000
40
2,337
49,947,763
10,199
165
72
13
24
18
5
15
7
11

2008

611
1,923
862
6

166,571
6,000,000
1,071
1,071

155,153

96,326,580

95,275,984

76,620,488

62,007,583

320,311

255,987

207,734

2,700,000
40
2,331
50,706,993
10,329
170
73
15
25
18
5
15
8
11

2007

Table 6

Packet Pg. 209

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

SBP Operations Program
SBP Capital Program
RTD Statement of Debt
RTD Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue
RTD Advertising and Ancillary Revenues
RTD Federal Grant Receipts
Five-Year Summary of Revenue/Expense Statements
Five-Year Summary of Budget/Actuals
RTD 2014 and 2015 Budget
Trip Fares
RTD Net Retail Sales

Table Title

Statements of

Summary Balance Sheet

100

Net Position – pg. 37-38

Statistical Section – Table 4

Location in CAFR

RTD Revenues by Source

Table Title

Debt Disclosure Tables Updated in Body of 2016 CAFR

7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

CAFR
Table

Debt Disclosure Tables for 2016 CAFR

Packet Pg. 210

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1,2

2

1

28,276
136,109
97,276
7,374
372
1,362
1,027
(15,843)
3,024
976
860
66,975
44,360
(2,010)
20,600
197
42,815
3,831
623
89,115
(36,850)
$ 490,469

$

2017
$ 26,238
140,251
100,222
7,603
383
1,366
1,030
(16,338)
3,118
1,007
887
69,388
45,709
(2,073)
21,228
218
44,120
334
642
93,001
(38,003)
$500,331

2018
$ 23,538
143,644
102,559
7,827
395
1,400
1,057
(16,820)
3,211
1,036
913
73,502
46,810
(2,135)
21,733
224
45,172
344
661
93,895
(42,710)
$506,256

2019
$ 20,640
147,498
105,304
8,036
405
(17,275)
3,297
1,064
937
75,433
48,065
(2,193)
22,321
230
46,393
355
680
95,055
(43,863)
$512,382

2020

101

Interest payments are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Interest payments on bonds and certificates of participation (COPS) issued for purposes other than FasTracks.

Interest Payments
Bus Operations – Current RTD
Bus Operations – Private Carrier after Contract
Bus Operations - call-n-Ride
Private Contract Administration Costs
Service Increases – RTD-Operated
Service Increases – Private Contractor
FasTracks Service Allocation - Bus1
Cost Sharing Agreements - Bus Service
Van Pool Program
Section 5011 Local Match
LRT Operations
ADA Operating Costs
FasTracks Service Allocation - ADA1
Facilities Maintenance - Base
Facilities Maintenance - Additional Costs
Capital Programs - Base
Capital Programs - Additional Costs
Direct Costs - Other Departments
Indirect Costs - Other Departments
FasTracks - Cost Allocation
Grand Total

Program

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2017-2022 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - OPERATING PROGRAM (In Thousands)

$ 17,558
151,376
108,065
8,247
416
(17,734)
3,385
1,093
962
77,440
49,328
(2,251)
22,915
236
47,627
363
697
95,766
(45,029)
$520,460

2021
$ 14,471
155,339
110,883
8,463
427
(18,204)
3,475
1,121
988
79,492
50,617
(2,310)
23,522
243
48,890
136
715
120,770
(46,223)
$552,815

2022
130,721
874,217
624,309
47,550
2,398
4,128
3,114
(102,214)
19,510
6,297
5,547
442,230
284,889
(12,972)
132,319
1,348
275,017
5,363
4,018
587,602
(252,678)
$ 3,082,713

$

Total Cost

Table 7

Packet Pg. 211

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

$

$

122,746

1,062
5,456
160

82
5,915
4,127
154
$

96
1,189
557

93
3,274
232

115,230

478
2,230
-

6,434
2,059
1,544

2018
57,925
25,586
212
27,795

$

6,930
206
35,575

2017
48,605

$

$

99,251

1,776
164

98
1,531
574

492
2,296
-

30,276
219
-

2019
61,825

$

$

101,499

168

101
1,707
589

2,245
-

31,724
225
-

2020
64,740

$

$

2

102

Principal payments are set at the time the bonds are issued and do not change with inflation.
Long-term debt service costs include principal payments on bonds and COPs and are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
3
Capital expenditures and discretionary capital amounts are presented in year of expenditure dollars.

1

Grand Total

Program
Long Term Debt Service1,2
Fleet Modernization and Expansion3
Buses and ADA Vehicles
Other
Light Rail Vehicles
Passenger Infrastructure3
Bus Infrastructure
Rail Infrastructure
Park-n-Rides3
Capital Support Equipment3
Vehicles and Bus Maintenance Equipment
Information Systems, Computer Equip. for Ops.
Security Equipment
Bus Maintenance Facilities3
District Shops
Facilities Construction and Maintenance3
Systems Planning3
Discretionary Capital3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2017-2022 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - CAPITAL PROGRAM (In Thousands)

90,987

173

104
605

518
2,305
-

24,797
230
-

2021
62,255

$

$

179,884

70,984
177

106
391
592

2,366
-

48,326
237
-

2022
56,705

$

$

709,597

82
6,977
82,343
996

7,922
13,501
1,544
598
8,092
3,149

167,639
1,329
63,370

Total Cost
352,055

Table 8

Packet Pg. 212

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

11.B.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF DEBT
as of December 31, 2016

Outstanding 2

Sales Tax Bonds
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071 - FasTracks

$

373,638

1

74,203

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20101

7,417

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007

RTD Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue (DUSPA) Fastracks, Series 2010

151,263

1

RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2010AB
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A1
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013AB 1
RTD Sales Tax TIFIA Loan4
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2016A1
Total Sales Tax Revenue Debt

$

381,089
534,255
44,327
243,549
305,675
229,949
2,345,365

Outstanding 2

Lease Purchase Agreements
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Taxable Certificates of Participation, Series
2007A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation,
2010AB

7,620

FasTracks Series
289,270

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A

222,705
464,209

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
210,969
2016A JPM Lease Puchase Agreement Refunding
Total Certificates of Participation Debt

$

74,470
1,269,243

Total Debt

$

3,614,608

$

2,920,000
1,238

RTD Distirct Populaiton3
Per Capita Debt Requirement
1

The Bond Resolution pursuant to which the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are issued provides that pledged for the payment of such Bonds are
the Sales Tax Revenues and "any additional revenues legally available to RTD which the Board in its discretion may hereafter by Supplemental
Resolution pledge to the payment of the Bonds".

2

RTD is current on its obligations under all such debt.

3

Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments.

4

Capitalized interest thru 2020

103

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

Table 9

Packet Pg. 213

11.B.a
Table 10

Percent
Change
Revenue
Fare
in Fare
1
Boardings
Revenue
Revenue
Year
$
14.9%
2007
81,714
77,128
2008
89,254
88,205
14.4%
2009
83,337
96,890
9.8%
2010
83,732
97,942
1.1%
2011
83,428
108,497
10.8%
2012
85,442
112,929
4.1%
2013
87,820
117,841
4.3%
2014
91,049
120,497
2.3%
2015
88,927
120,530
0.0%
2016
88,982
134,622
11.7%
1
Totals for 2007-2016 include both access-a-Ride boardings and vanpool
boardings.
ADVERTISING AND ANCILLARY REVENUES - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)
Advertising
Ancillary
Year
Revenue
Revenues
$
$
4,706
2007
3,194
2008
2,854
3,106
2009
2,866
3,243
2010
3,301
2,892
2011
3,992
2,528
2012
3,524
2,214
2013
2,924
20,123
2014
4,324
2,085
2015
4,160
1,186
2016
3,722
2,081

Table 11

GRANT RECEIPTS AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)

Table 12

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Grant
Capital
$
107,577
39,220
129,211
102,213
186,073
193,991
159,783
171,549
157,616
185,324

Local
Contributions
$
7,556
169
2,500
5,265
52,219
117,685
82,783
34,882
11,697
16,911

Grant Operating
Assistance
$
47,041
50,814
68,146
92,655
89,592
68,927
88,243
75,544
73,383
77,335

104

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

ANNUAL RIDERSHIP AND FARE REVENUE - 2007-2016
(In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 214

11.B.a

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES

Table 13

AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)
Years ended December 31
2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares

$

Other
Total Operating Revenues

134,622

120,530

$

$

120,497

$

117,841

$

112,929

5,803

5,347

4,406

5,199

5,333

140,425

125,877

124,903

123,040

118,262

178,974

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits

260,039

227,207

204,790

192,405

Materials and supplies

52,180

58,884

62,156

64,798

58,300

Services

58,560

79,749

108,920

112,479

109,853

Utilities

14,220

13,673

14,151

13,567

11,833

Insurance

10,382

8,102

5,273

5,568

3,776

Purchased transportation

156,605

113,216

114,942

113,006

111,130

Leases and rentals

3,288

3,462

3,264

3,210

2,401

Miscellaneous

4,183

4,531

6,561

6,448

15,741

Total Operating Expenses

559,457

508,824

520,057

511,481

492,008

Operating loss before depreciation

(419,032)

(382,947)

(395,154)

(388,441)

(373,746)

Depreciation

222,154

152,531

139,045

127,256

115,269

Operating Loss

(641,186)

(535,478)

(534,199)

(515,697)

(489,015)

Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues

563,598

541,518

514,721

468,586

449,787

Grant operating assistance

77,335

73,383

75,544

88,243

68,927

Interest income

6,371

3,164

165

2,040

2,613

Other income

9,927

10,322

10,248

28,170

11,035

Gain/Loss on Capital Assets

5,664

1,085

6,613

(82)

3,459

Interest expense

(77,272)

(79,686)

(72,293)

(61,223)

(51,371)

Other expense/Unrealized Loss

(1,258)

(1,422)

(3,605)

(4,064)

(4,895)

Total Nonoperating Income

584,365

548,364

531,393

521,670

479,555

Net income before capital grants and local contributions

(56,821)

12,886

(2,806)

5,973

(9,460)

Federal capital grants and local contributions

202,235

169,313

206,431

242,566

311,676

Increase in Net Position

145,414

182,199

203,625

248,539

302,216

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as previously reported)

3,176,938

3,181,074

2,977,449

2,728,910

2,426,694

Net Position, Beginning of Year (as restated)
Net Position at End of Year

2,994,739
$

3,322,352

$

3,176,938

$

3,181,074

$

2,977,449

$

2,728,910

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISCTRICT

105
Packet Pg. 215

$

$

(959,239)

58,942

1,480,625

1,687,076
(206,451)

457,091

550,165

551,368
78,832
4,310
11,020
(95,365)
-

(426,928)

555,546

202,135
67,741
139,607
15,015
7,595
114,214
3,415
5,824

128,618

$

182,199

870,055
(299,688)
54,348
(152,531)

(289,985) $

54,348

700,742

870,055
(169,313)

299,688

548,364

541,518
73,383
3,164
10,322
1,085
(79,686)
(1,422)

(382,947)

508,824

227,207
58,884
79,749
13,673
8,102
113,216
3,462
4,531

125,877

(698,800)

62,187

1,535,647

1,811,720
(276,073)

795,604

520,002

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
-

(416,572)

546,980

184,597
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931

130,408

$

46,460

1,550,456

1,811,720
(261,264)

261,376

487,752

466,429
82,385
3,165
15,246
(79,473)
-

(384,024)

508,793

131,347
69,469
149,007
14,846
6,270
116,675
3,263
17,916

124,769

203,625

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)

(3,709) $ (1,231,812)

57,002

656,270

862,701
(206,431)

573,324

531,393

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

(395,154)

520,057

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561

124,903

$

248,539

769,359
(693,841)
442,598
(127,256)

(142,321) $

442,598

526,793

769,359
(242,566)

693,841

521,670

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)

(388,441)

511,481

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448

123,040

(868,297)

56,563

1,448,275

1,709,182
(260,907)

583,788

490,726

436,521
79,760
3,338
21,186
(50,079)
-

(437,973)

559,490

159,460
59,714
189,519
11,705
6,299
113,346
2,464
16,983

121,517

$

302,116

702,119
(545,763)
57,827
(115,369)

203,302

57,827

390,443

702,119
(311,676)

545,763

479,555

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)

(373,746)

492,008

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741

118,262

106

* RTD's annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenues, and expenditures include capital outlays
and bond principal

145,414

Net Income

(144,515) $

693,159
(314,174)
133,098
(222,154)

(672,767)

133,098

490,924

1,138,134
61,698

693,159
(202,235)

1,396,223
(258,089)

Increases (decreases) to reconcile budget basis
to GAAP basis
Capital expenditures
Long-term debt proceeds
Long-term debt principal
Depreciation

Excess (deficit) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital outlay
and debt principal payments

Long-term debt principal payment

Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants

314,174

584,365

457,091

573,257

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

Total nonoperating revenue

563,598
77,335
6,371
9,927
5,664
(77,272)
(1,258)

569,763
96,767
3,840
20,200
(117,313)
-

559,457
(419,032)

Nonoperating revenue (expense):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unlrealized loss

638,253

Total Operating Expenses

260,039
52,180
58,560
14,220
10,382
156,605
3,288
4,183

(503,283)

222,966
60,001
139,385
19,382
7,665
175,696
3,557
9,601

140,425

Operating loss

134,970

Total operating revenues

Operating expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Table 14
FIVE-YEAR SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES AND REVENUES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS (In Thousands)*
2013
2012
2016
2015
2014
Budget
Actual
Actual
Budget
Actual
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Budget
Operating revenues:
Passenger fares
$
130,173 $ 134,622 $
123,373 $ 120,530 $
124,985 $ 120,497 $ 119,346 $ 117,841 $ 116,092 $
112,929
Other
4,797
4,406
5,423
5,199
5,333
5,423
5,425
5,347
5,245
5,803

Packet Pg. 216

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

$

Net position summary:
Net investment in capital assets

5,166,922

62,328
15,813

120,658

19,784

112,218

$

$

3,987,320

107

29,160
11,442

126,117

18,678

118,398

3,683,525

3,987,320

1,236,415

Adjustments reflect cash activity from the Statement of Net Position.
2
Funds restricted by bond covenants, other contracts and policy guidelines.
3
Appropriated funds which are available to fund future year expenditures for the FasTracks program.
4
Board appropriated funds per policy guidelines and funds designated for capital replacement.

1

Ending net position

Restricted Board appropriated and capital replacement fund4
Unrestricted fund

Restricted FasTracks

3

Restricted TABOR fund

$

5,166,922

$

Ending net position

4,836,121

2,449,046

Adjustments1

Restricted debt service, project related and other2

635,428
117,313
61,698
517,887
1,087,182
2,419,508

Expenditures:
Operating
Interest expense
Debt payments
Current capital
Capital carryforward
Total expenditures

$

134,970
569,763
354,856
24,040
7,466
228,375
197,416
1,516,886

163,457
590,488
354,922
12,269
27,229
150,000
71,300
1,369,665

Beginning net position
Revenues:
Operating
Sales & use taxes
Federal and local grants
Interest and other income
FasTracks - change in construction reserve
Financing proceeds
Contributed capital
Total Revenues
638,253
117,313
61,698
553,002
843,221
2,213,487

August 2016
Amended Budget
$
3,447,506

2016
Adopted Budget
$
3,767,719

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FISCAL YEAR 2016 AND 2017 BUDGET SUMMARY (in thousands)

$

$

$

4,772,628

44,732
24,016

112,804

23,438

137,894

4,429,744

4,772,628

1,655,049

626,076
160,912
58,898
334,001
864,089
2,043,976

156,434
608,274
477,004
16,525
(22,438)
95,361
1,331,160

2017
Adopted Budget
$
3,830,395

Table 15

Packet Pg. 217

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Regular 10Ride
$ 23.50
40.50

Multiple Trip Fares
Local - Denver, Boulder and Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional

Other 10-Ride
$
11.75
20.25

1

Senior/ Disabled/
Student Fare1
Free
$
1.30
2.25
4.50

Regular Day
Pass Book
$
26.00
45.00

Other Day Pass
Book1
$
22.50
20.25

Regular Monthly
$
99.00
171.00

Other Monthly1
$
49.00
85.00

Table11.B.a
16

108

Packet Pg. 218

Includes monthly fares for youth, student, disabled and senior patrons. Youth patrons include children ages 6-19. Student includes any student with a school identification card. Seniors include
age 65 and older.

1

Fare
Free
$
2.60
4.50
9.00

Single Trip Fares
Mall Shuttle and Free Mall Ride
Local - Denver, Boulder, Longmont and light rail
Rail and bus regional
Airport

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
TRIP FARES

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

1

Boulder
County
$ 3,538
3,491
3,216
3,391
3,721
3,851
4,033
4,359
4,547
4,798

Jefferson
County
$
6,185
6,043
5,536
5,656
6,001
6,202
6,538
7,013
7,505
7,718

Adams
County 1
$ 4,804
4,785
4,240
4,433
4,749
5,323
5,731
6,436
6,932
7,301

Only a portion of each of these counties lies within the District

Year
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016

Denver
County
$
10,751
11,057
9,269
9,766
11,239
12,415
12,861
14,254
14,629
15,251

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RTD NET TAXABLE RETAIL SALES (In Millions)

Arapahoe
County 1
$
7,294
7,098
6,459
6,817
7,486
8,109
8,456
9,211
9,887
10,144

109

Douglas
County 1
$
2,616
2,524
2,319
2,390
2,778
2,912
3,108
3,318
3,575
3,786

Broomfield
County 1
$
934
901
790
935
944
991
1,004
1,045
1,077
1,055
Other
$ 592
666
474
718
1,041
1,036
1,399
1,359

Total Taxable
Transactions
$
36,714
36,565
32,303
34,106
37,959
40,839
41,731
45,636
49,551
51,412

Percent Annual
Increase or
Decrease
2.4%
-0.4%
-11.7%
5.6%
11.3%
7.6%
2.2%
9.4%
8.6%
3.8%

Table 17

Packet Pg. 219

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Packet Pg. 220

11.B.a

Attachment: 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 221

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 222

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 223

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 224

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 225

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 226

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 227

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 228

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 229

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 230

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 231

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 232

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 233

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 234

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 235

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 236

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 237

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 238

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 239

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 240

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 241

Attachment: Draft Report to Governance (3140 : 2016 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and

11.B.b

Packet Pg. 242

11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Citibank Call Modification

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the execution and
delivery of a second modification and exchange agreement and a third supplemental indenture of
trust relating to a portion of a portion of the District’s sales tax revenue refunding bonds (FasTracks
Project) Series 2007A, and other matters related thereto.
BACKGROUND:
The Regional Transportation District (“RTD”) sold its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2006A (the “Series 2006A Bonds) in a principal amount of $600,000,000 in 2006. In April,
2007 RTD issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2007A (the “Series
2007A Bonds”), in a principal amount of $363,725,000, to advance refund a portion of the Series
2006A Bonds, the principal maturing from 2030 to 2036 in the amount of $364,265,000, to realize a
reduction in interest expense. The amortization of the Series 2007A Bonds was structured similar to the
refunded principal of the Series 2006A Bonds, with the majority of principal maturing from 2030 to
2036. A portion of the Series 2007A Bonds are subject to redemption at the option of RTD on or after
November 1, 2017. Another Portion of the Series 2007A Bonds are subject to redemption at the option
of RTD on or after November 1, 2024.
This action item discusses the modification of the call provisions of the portion of the Series 2007A
Bonds that are subject to optional redemption on or after November 1, 2024 in exchange for
receiving a onetime payment from the owner of the bonds, CitiBank N.A. (“Citi”).
DISSCUSSION:
The Series 2007A Bonds are currently outstanding in the principal amount of $360,310,000. Citi
currently owns Series 2007A Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of $220,825,000, which
represents the majority of the principal outstanding in years 2030 to 2035, the details of which are set
forth in the following table:

Packet Pg. 243

11.C

Bond
Outstanding
Maturity
Principal
Maturity
Amount
11/1/2030 $ 56,375,000
11/1/2031
33,915,000
11/1/2032
36,535,000
11/1/2033
64,300,000
11/1/2035
70,220,000
$ 261,345,000

Percentage
Citi Proposed
Principal
of Maturity
Current Optional
Optional
Amount Owned Owned by Redemption/Call Date Redemption/
by Citibank
Citibank
of Citi Owned Bonds
Call Date
$ 56,375,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
33,915,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
36,535,000
100%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
34,000,000
53%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
60,000,000
85%
November 1, 2024
non-callable
$ 220,825,000
84%

Citi has approached RTD with an offer pursuant to which RTD would amend the optional redemption
date of the Citi owned Series 2007A Bonds from November 1, 2024 and make the bonds non-callable
against receipt of a one-time cash payment from Citi. As of May 1, 2017, the payment from Citi to RTD
was estimated at approximately $16,000,000. The sale of the additional call protection by RTD to Citi,
with respect to the Series 2007A Bonds owned by Citi, can be analyzed in the context of a partial
refunding of the Series 2007A Bonds, with the savings of such “refunding” realized in the form of an
upfront-payment by Citi to RTD. If the proposal is accepted by RTD, the portion of the Series 2007A
Bonds owned by Citi would no longer be subject to optional redemption.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The estimated payment by Citi of $16 million represents approximately 7% of the principal amount of
Series 2007A Bonds owned by Citi. This is more than twice the (i) RTD threshold of 3.0% net present
value savings as a percent of refunded principal, and (ii) recommended threshold of 3.0% for execution
of a refunding by the Government Finance Officers Association.
Since the value of this transaction is dependent on interest rates at the time an agreement is reached,
the resolution allows staff to proceed with this transaction as long as a minimum payment of $13
million, net of associated costs is obtained by RTD.
Costs of execution related to this transaction include fees for financial advisory, legal and other fees and
will be funded from the proceeds of this transaction.
Net funds received by RTD must be applied toward FasTracks projects.

ALTERNATIVES:
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2017, authorizing the execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange
agreement and a third supplemental indenture of trust relating to the districts Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A, and other matters related
thereto. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series
of 2017, authorizing the execution and delivery of a second modification and exchange
agreement and a third supplemental indenture of trust relating to the districts Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A, and other matters related

Packet Pg. 244

11.C

thereto. This is not the recommended action as it would not take advantage of the one-time
payment currently available to the District.
ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (PDF)



Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (PDF)



Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 245

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 246

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 247

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 248

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 249

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 250

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 251

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 252

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 253

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 254

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 255

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 256

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 257

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 258

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 259

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 260

Attachment: Resolution Approving Citibank Modification (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.a

Packet Pg. 261

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 262

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 263

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 264

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 265

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 266

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 267

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 268

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 269

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 270

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 271

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 272

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 273

Attachment: Modification and Exchange Agreement - May 2017 (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.b

Packet Pg. 274

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 275

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 276

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 277

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 278

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 279

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 280

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 281

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 282

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 283

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 284

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 285

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 286

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 287

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 288

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 289

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 290

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 291

Attachment: Third Supplemental Indenture - RTD 2007 FasTracks Bonds (2017-002 : Citibank Call Modification)

11.C.c

Packet Pg. 292

12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Additional Funding for Triunity-Hill Joint
Venture Contract for FasTracks Construction
Management Support Consultant Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Triunity -Hill Joint
Venture for Construction Management Support Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks,
increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value through July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for
this award is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects
where CMSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in future
year capital budgets.
BACKGROUND
In April 2014, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to the TriunityHill Joint Venture for an amount not to exceed $15,150,000 for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services. Notice to Proceed was issued on July 15, 2014, for a six-year contract with
four one-year options. This contract amendment would increase the total contract not-to-exceed
value through the contract end date of July 14, 2020 to $34,400,000.
As of April 21, 2017, RTD has contracted for a total of $13,405,863 in services to be delivered through
December 31, 2017, and is in the process of negotiating change orders for an additional $948,028,
which would bring the actual contract amount to $14,353,891. As of the February 2017 invoice, RTD
has paid out a total of $7,858,674 on this contract.
The Triunity-Hill JV includes a certified DBE as 51% managing partner. RTD has set a DBE goal of
27% for this contract. As of the February 2017 invoice, actual DBE participation has been 49.64% .
DISCUSSION
The CMSC serves as an extension of RTD staff. RTD staff provides overall management and control
of the FasTracks program and administration of this contract. The CMSC provides key personnel to
support the program in specialized disciplines and short-term roles, generally meeting one or more of
the following criteria:





Technical knowledge or experience that RTD does not have in-house
Functions for which RTD cannot hire staff within its salary structure
Roles lasting less than a year
Functions that require less than a full-time equivalent employee

Each position in the FasTracks organization is evaluated individually to determine whether that
position falls within the above criteria for using a consultant. In addition, before a consultant is

Packet Pg. 293

12.D

actually brought into the FasTracks program, an assessment is made as to whether the position is
still needed, and an interview is conducted with the appropriate RTD manager(s).
The detailed scope of work for the CMSC contract is negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s
work tasks. The purpose of the annual re-negotiation of the contract is to ensure that specific tasks
and deliverables respond to the evolving needs of the FasTracks Program. The initial funding for the
contract covered the tasks and deliverables needed through the end of 2017. The requested
additional funding is expected to cover the tasks and deliverables needed through July 14, 2020. If
RTD needs additional services past the current contract end date, future Board action will be needed
to exercise the contract options and increase the contract not-to-exceed amount.
To date, the CMSC has provided the following support for the FasTracks program, and will continue
providing this support through the end of 2017:









Construction support for North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
DBE support
Project controls support
Specialized planning and environmental support
TOD support
Specialized engineering support
Quality management support
Selected closeout staffing roles on the Eagle and I-225 corridors

RTD envisions the CMSC providing continuing support in those areas through 2020, as well as
additional support in the following areas:
 Closeout support for North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
 Preparation of federally-required before and after studies for the Eagle and Southeast Rail
Extension projects
 Preparation of the annual Quality of Life report
The specific work scope for each future year would be established late in the prior year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total Contract Not to Exceed Amount for the CMSC contract from would be $34,400,000 w ith
this amendment. These funds would be utilized upon inclusion in a specific future work program.
Funding for the future work program is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 20182020 in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the
specific projects in future year capital budgets.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs &
FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve
a contract amendment to Triunity-Hill Joint Venture for Construction Management Support
Consultant Services (CMSC) for FasTracks, increasing the Not-to-Exceed contract value through
July 14, 2020 by $19,250,000. Funding for this award is included in the 2016 Annual Program
Evaluation for 2018-2020 in the specific projects where CMSC support would be utilized, and
will be appropriated in the specific projects in future year capital budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to increase the
contract not-to-exceed value. Instead, terminate the contract and perform all the work in-house
with RTD staff. This is not recommended as RTD does not have the staff capacity to fill the roles
anticipated to be filled by CMSC personnel.

Packet Pg. 294

12.D

3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to increase the
contract not-to-exceed value. Instead, terminate the contract and re-solicit this work to another
consulting team. This is not recommended as the CMSC is satisfactorily performing its work
assignments and providing valuable technical and project management assistance to the RTD
team.
Selection of alternatives two or three would delay the implementation of the FasTracks Program as
there would be a major loss of continuity on the program.

Prepared by:
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Pranaya Shrestha, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 295

12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Subject:

Approval of increased Contract Authorization
to Front Range Systems Consultants (FRSC)
for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant
Services

General

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
increase the board authorized contract amount with Front Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the
amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total contract not-to-exceed authorization of $67,482,759
and will provide funding through the remainder of 2017. Funds for the contract authorization are
included in the specific project budgets where FRSC support would be utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to extend the
contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and increase the total
contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract authorization of $70,982,759. Funding for this
scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where FRSC
support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
BACKGROUND
In April 2005, RTD advertised a Request for Proposals for professional services for a Systems
Engineering Consultant for the overall FasTracks Systems Engineering Services. On September 20,
2005 the RTD Board approved the selection and award to FRSC for the Systems Engineering work for a
six year term and an option for another six years. The RTD Board approved exercising the six year option
in November 2011.
FRSC has successfully performed the stated tasks outlined in the original Scope of Work. Specific
systems design and support scope in their contract includes traction electrification system (TES)
including overhead contact system (OCS) and traction power substations (TPSS), train control,
communication and central control system, corrosion control, systemwide electrical, rail vehicles, and
operation planning support. FRSC has worked with RTD staff in a number of areas:










Provided construction management support for the West Rail Line Project
Provided construction management support for the I-225 Rail Line Project
Provided Systems Engineering & Construction Management Support on the Eagle Project
Provided construction management support on the light rail substation PLC Upgrade Project
Completed the design documents for the I225 Project
Provided Systems Engineering Support on the On-Call Systems Engineering Contract
Provided construction management support for the Denver Union Station Project
Provided construction management support for the North Metro Project
Provided construction management support for the Southeast Rail Line extension

Packet Pg. 296

12.E




Provided engineering review and inspection services of the Eagle P3 commuter rail vehicles
Provided engineering advising services in regard to the commuter rail vehicle equalizer beam
warranty issue

DISCUSSION
The RTD selected a single Systems Engineering Consultant for the entire FasTracks Program for
consistency and standardization of design. This approach will save the RTD cost and will facilitate the
operation and maintenance of the system. The initial contract award was for the final design services
for the West Corridor and evaluation of commuter rail vehicle type. The work effort is consistent with
the work required to move each corridor forward and maintain the FasTracks schedule.
In particular, FRSC will support RTD’s Systems Engineering staff on managing; the Southeast Rail Line
Extension, the I-225 Rail Line, the North Metro Rail Line, the US36 BRT line and the Eagle Project. The
proposed Scope of Work to be performed under the increased Contract Authorization is as follows:


Program Management & Support Services
o Provide CADD and Quality Assurance services as required by RTD
o Provide project management and administration
o Provide coordination and project control, cost estimating, cost control assistance
o Provide document control functions for systems engineering
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Provide reviews and comments on the overall FasTracks schedule
o Incorporate design changes as requested by the RTD
o Prepare PE stamped construction drawings and specifications



Eagle Project
o Support RTD’s System Engineering staff in reviewing and processing close out documents
o Provide operations & maintenance cost estimating & life cycle support
o Assist with systems engineering expertise and evaluation of operational issues
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes
o Provide engineering advising and engineering inspection services for the commuter rail
vehicles



I-225 Corridor LRT Project
o Support RTD’s System Engineering staff in reviewing and processing close out documents
o Assist RTD with systems engineering technical knowledge and expertise
o Assist RTD in reviewing the I-225 schedule
o Provide field verification inspections
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes



North Metro Line
o Review systems submittals and construction design documents submitted by the Contractor
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Assist RTD in reviewing the North Metro Rail Line schedule
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes including
operations and maintenance
o Perform field inspections
o Perform quality assurance audits as required by RTD’s Quality Assurance Program

Packet Pg. 297

12.E



Southeast Rail Extension Project
o Review submittals and construction design documents submitted by the Contractor
o Assist RTD in coordination with civil designers and other government agencies as it relates to
System Engineering
o Assist RTD in reviewing the SERE Systems schedule
o Perform field inspections
o Perform quality assurance audits as required by RTD’s Quality Assurance Program
o Assist in cost estimating and negotiations for any systems-related changes

RTD has reached the stage of the FasTracks program where several of the ongoing corridor projects
have reached revenue service, and are entering the closeout phase. At this time, it is crucial to retain
the institutional knowledge needed to close out all contracts and meet the final reporting requirements
for FTA grant projects. Other projects will be completing construction and entering systems integrated
testing in 2018 The proposed time extension to the FRSC contract would make the resources available
to RTD to complete construction, systems integrated testing, and project closeout in a timely and costeffective manner.
The contract extension through 2018 will cover specific named individuals and functional areas, with
projected timeframes of availability for each one. In the event that a named individual were to leave the
FRSC team before the end of the contract timeframe, the contract would be amended to remove all
remaining hours for that individual. Any future consultant support outside of these designated areas will
be procured through the Systems Engineering Consultant contract to be awarded later in 2017, and will
not be added to the scope of this contract.
Specific projects where FRSC assistance is anticipated in 2018 include:
o Eagle P3 Commuter Rail
o North Metro Rail Line
o Southeast Rail Extension
The DBE goal for this contract was set at 10%. To date FRSC has achieved a 17.5% DBE goal. Front
Range Systems Consultants has proposed a 13% DBE goal for the 2017 work, exceeding the RTD
proposed goal of 10%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for project scope to be completed in 2017 is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized. Funding for
2018 scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018 in the specific projects where
FRSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018 capital budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the Board of Directors increase the board authorized contract amount with Front
Range Systems Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $3,173,202. This will result in a total contract
authorization of $67,482,759 and will provide funding through the remainder of 2017. Funds for the
contract authorization are included in the specific project budgets where FRSC support would be
utilized.
It is further recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to FRSC to

Packet Pg. 298

12.E

extend the contract completion date from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, and increase
the not-to-exceed contract amount by $3,500,000, for a total contract not-to-exceed authorization
of $70,982,759. Funding for this scope is included in the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation for 2018
in the specific projects where FRSC support would be utilized, and will be appropriated in the 2018
capital budget.
Do not accept the Recommended Action. Reconsider the System Engineering approach. This is not
recommended as RTD does not currently have the specialized staff to meet the System Engineering
needs of the FasTracks Program. Selection of alternative two could delay implementation of the
FasTracks Program.

Prepared by:
Russ Larson, Manager, Systems Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 299

12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 25, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 25, 2017

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through
June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the Contract
Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 4 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.

Board of Directors Report
State Legislative Liaison Services
May 2, 2017
Page 2 of 2

Packet Pg. 300

12.F

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year
option (June 30, 2017 through June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$127,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for
Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 301

12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Timekeeping System Contract

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
for the new time and attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed
$750,000.
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s current union time and attendance (hardware and software) system, TruTrack, is over fifteenyears old and has passed its end-of-life. Due to the age of the legacy system, a host of issues have
arisen which makes supporting the TruTrack system difficult and in some cases, impossible.
 The current system is unstable, difficult to support and has had multiple outages, at times
occurring daily.
 Replacement hardware does not exist to continue to repair the onsite (RTD) hosted system.
 Replacement time clocks are no longer available.
 In the event of a catastrophic failure, a manual time tracking and payroll generation effort
spanning multiple work groups would be required.
In consultation with the business unit, it was determined that replacement of the existing TruTrack
system is absolutely necessary to assure the future ability to meet union payroll. Given the complexity
of the union payroll structure, the business owner and stakeholders completed a thorough due diligence
assessment and identified requirements to replace the legacy system.
DISCUSSION:
To assure the ongoing ability to track and report represented employees’ (non-operators) time and
attendance and to generate union payroll from this tracked information, RTD must replace the existing
legacy system, TruTack, with a modern and fully supported software as a service (SaaS) hosted time
and attendance system.
RTD is leveraging through US Communities, the KRONOS Contract #14-JLR-003, lead agency is Harford
County Public Schools (Maryland). Contracts and Procurement confirmed RTD’s participation in all the
Cooperative Agreements.
RTD issued the RFP to two firms with existing publicly procured contracts, ADP and KRONOS to provide
a proposal for design, implementation and support for the new time and attendance system for the next
five years.
The evaluation team consisted of personnel from the following departments: Finance, Accounting,
Payroll, Maintenance Reporting and IT. The proposals were reviewed in accordance with the evaluative
criteria as set forth in the RFP for this procurement including: fulfilling RTD-specified design and

Packet Pg. 302

12.G

functionality requirements, cost, functional strength, experience, qualifications, project plan and
schedule. After reviewing the two submitted proposals, interviews with both vendors and obtaining
clarifications, the evaluation team unanimously selected KRONOS Incorporated, as the time and
attendance vendor to move forward in the procurement process. The reasons for selecting KRONOS
include but is not limited to:
 KRONOS fully meets approximately 97% of RTD’s requirements. This was highest among the
two competing vendors.
 Of the remaining requirements, KRONOS offered reasonable alternatives with minimal impact to
the District.
 RTD requires 99.5% uptime and KRONOS guarantees 99.75% uptime and has provided 99.9%
uptime over the last six years, far exceeding RTD requirements and assures business continuity.
 KRONOS has over 40 years of experience delivering time and attendance systems. They are
industry-leading experts.
 KRONOS has a strong and proven project implementation strategy and has successfully deployed
their time and attendance system globally.
 KRONOS is scalable and could be expanded to include all employees, both represented and
salaried with future modification.
This new service will assure RTD’s ability to capture and report represented employees’ time and
attendance and generate accurate payroll for represented employees (non-operators). The vendor’s
primary data center is located Massachusetts with a failover/backup center in Illinois.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The KRONOS proposal provides for system design, implementation, testing and training for $132,175.
First year Operational Services for $72,624 with the first year is assumed to be a partial year. Years
two through five operational service will be $108,936, per year. Total cost of the KRONOS proposal is
$640,543. The implementation of the time and attendance system is fully funded with existing approved
capital and operating funds and includes the first year of maintenance and licensing. The total not-toexceed contract amount will be $640,543. Implementing a complex payroll system to ensure continuity
of union payroll may result in changes unforeseen at the time the scope of work was produced. To
allow for a timely implementation, it’s in RTD’s interest to have contract authority beyond the proposal
amount by $109,457, to allow for such events.
Authority is requested from the Board for a total
amount of $750,000 which includes implementation costs, annual maintenance and licensing for five
years and contingency to cover any unforeseen expenses. There are sufficient funds budget in 2017 for
the implementation. Future funds for operations will be incorporated in the maintenance and operations
budgets.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the recommendation that the Financial Administration & Audit Committee and the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract for the new Time and Attendance system to KRONOS Incorporated, in an
amount not to exceed $750,000. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not approve the recommendation that the Financial Administration & Audit Committee and the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Time and Attendance system to KRONOS
Incorporated, in an amount not to exceed $750,000. This is not the recommended action
because the existing system is unstable and in immediate need of replacement.

Packet Pg. 303

12.G

Prepared by:
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Eric Dunham, Senior Project Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 304

12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

May 10, 2017

Subject:

Non-Profit Program 2017

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: May 10, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Non-Profit program
continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017. In addition, any new program applicant
will be put on a wait list as well as any existing agency that did not order in 2016. New participants in
2017 will be limited to what they already ordered. Any entity that has ordered at or above what they
ordered in 2016 will not be able to order any additional product in 2017. The remaining face value at the
end of May 2017 will be divided proportionally among the remaining participants based on their
proportional value of the orders placed in 2016 to the total value of all orders in 2016.
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s Non-Profit Program has been in existence for more than 25 years. The purpose of the program is
to offer government agencies and nonprofit organizations the opportunity to purchase discounted RTD
fare media for distribution to their means-tested clients.
Last year the RTD Board approved several changes to the program including changing the name of the
program, offering the new Day Pass ticket books, changing all discounts to 50%, permitting agencies to
recover up to 100% of the price paid to RTD for the fare media, easing some of the administrative
burden, and raising the program face value amount from $5,800,000 to $6,800,000. We currently
have 309 agencies in the program. Of those, 57 are new participants that joined in 2016 and 17 are
new participants that joined in 2017.
DISCUSSION:
With the changes made for 2016, we anticipated additional interest in the program. We knew we
needed to put some level of controls on the program while allowing additional participants to purchase
fares. We limited those that were already participating in the program to their previous year’s purchases
+ 10%. This allowed approximately $35,000 (face value) per month or $420,000 (face value) per year
for new participants. However, in December the volume of orders was so large, our manual tracking
process was not able to keep pace with the volume of orders as precisely as we had been able to up to
that point and we went over the approved amount by $700,000 (face value).
In just the first two months of 2017, we have had 10 new organizations join the program and with the
current sales from existing customers and the new ones, we could easily exceed the current board
authorized program total of $6,800,000 by mid-year.
In March, we approached the Board Executive Committee with a short-term measure so that we could
slow down the rate of buy in the program until we could bring a more permanent solution to the Board
for consideration. The following is the short-term plan.

Packet Pg. 305

12.H





Any new program applicant will be put on a wait list for now as well as any existing agency that
did not order in 2016
Current members (pre-2016) are limited to what they purchased last year for each month
For new members (2016 and 2017), we are averaging their total amount purchased last year and
limiting them to that amount

At the April Financial Administration and Audit Committee, we presented three potential options.




Keep the program amount the same, which would result in a reduction from 2016 amounts
Increase the program by $730,000 face value
Increase the program by $1,000,000 face value

The majority of the Board input indicated that we should stay within the 2017 budgeted face value of
$6,800,000. To stay within the $6.8 million threshold, we need to do the following:





Any new program applicant will be put on a wait list as well as any existing agency that did not
order in 2016.
New participants in 2017 will be limited to what they already ordered.
Any entity that has ordered at or above what they ordered in 2016 with not be able to order any
additional product in 2017.
The remaining face value at the end of May 2017 will be divided proportionally among the
remaining participants based on their proportional value of the orders placed in 2017 to the total
value of all orders.

Staff will come back will a recommendation for 2018 once the Pass Working Group has had an
opportunity to meet and make recommendations and we see how the 2018 budget is looking.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
With the option presented, there would be no financial impact to the current 2017 budget.

ALTERNATIVES
1.

Approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for 2017. This is
the recommended action.
2.
Approve another face value amount for 2017 for the Non-Project program. This is not
the recommended action.
3.
Do not approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Non-Profit program continue to maintain a $6,800,000 face value amount for
2017. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 306

12.H

Packet Pg. 307

