Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 1 of 9

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

May 12, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held
May 11, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Vice-Chair James, Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly, Kemp, Malpiede,
Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Pulliam

Directors Bagley, Christopher, Tayer, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Jesse Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn
Conover, Bob Downes, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins, Bill Holmes,
Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay,
Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Sue Sandoval, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Debra Baskett, Audrey DeBarros (36 Commuting Solutions), Burt Bondi
(Bondi & Company), Cheryl Wallace (Bondie & Company), Holman Carter
(ATU 1001)

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Vice -Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit Committee to order
at 5:32 p.m.
Vice-Chair James began the meeting by showing the trophy awarded to the District for
sponsoring the 2010 NAIOP Challenge.
I.

Recommended Actions


2009 Audited Financial Statements - Terry Howerter introduced Burt Bondi and
Cheryl Wallace from Bondi and Company to present the comprehensive annual
financial report. Mr. Bondi spoke to the audit of the District’s Financial Statements.
Bondi and Company concluded that the Financial Statements fairly represent the
financial position of the district as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. No
exceptions to compliance or controls over the Federal programs we administer. It is

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 2 of 9

a clean opinion. There were about fifteen adjustments posted which is fairly
standard.
Cheryl Wallace reviewed the Report to Governance. The Committee received a
copy of this report along with a response letter from the District. A copy of this
report is available in the meeting minute notebook.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports
relating to the year ended December 31, 2009 as prepared by Staff and audited by
the District’s independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made a
motion to forward this action item
to the May 18, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Terry Howerter thanked Susan Sandoval and Tom Barlow as well as the rest of
staff involved in their work on this audit. He also introduced Doug McLeod as the
Manager of Financial Reporting.


State Audit, Item #11 - Bill Holmes introduced this item. The recommended action
is in compliance with what the State Audit recommended in regards to modified
procedures in how internal audit reports to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee. Not significant changes but they do provide more transparency for the
District.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors adopt the revision of the reporting structure for the internal audit
function to improve communication procedures and independence of the
department in light of the State Audit Examination.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a
motion to forward this action item
to the May 18, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 3 of 9



U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment – Bill Van Meter introduced this item. He
gave a presentation on the background of the action. Phase 1 BRT was completed
earlier this month with the opening of the Broomfield park-n-Ride. US 36 is
requesting a commitment of $30 million by RTD to provide leverage for a
TIGER/TIFIA loan that would help pay for a $160 million project to extend a
manager/BRT lane in each direction to 120th Avenue interchange in Broomfield. For
a copy of this presentation please see the Financial Administration and Audit
committee Meeting Minute Notebook. He reviewed the pros and cons of the
recommended action.
General Manager Washington added that this request has been analyzed extensively
at the staff level. We believe this is a great way to leverage the funds that the US
36 coalition has already realized. It does advance construction on a key corridor
and fits into our new motto of “Build as much as we can, as fast as we can until it
is all done.” The benefits outweigh the cons.
Chair Kemp added that we have really pushed our corridor stakeholders to complete
segments of the FasTracks program. Here’s an example of a corridor getting
together and pushing to get something done that will be a significant improvement
and also shows that we have shovels in the dirt on yet another corridor in the
FasTracks program.
Director Busck said that this will unify communities and get the project going
forward.
Director O’Boyle didn’t think this was a good idea. CDOT needs to have a bigger
commitment. We need to not leave other corridors with less money to accomplish
things.
Mr. Van Meter said that CDOT has committed $30 million and Russ George has
stated his commitment to the project. They have been working cooperatively to
move the project forward.
Director O’Boyle was very concerned about impacting 2011 and 2012 budgets. He
thinks that advancing one piece and letting the rest go is not good policy. Raiding
one corridor to fund another is not Board policy. Four or five years ago the
Southeast corridor was on its way to obtain additional Federal dollars to fund the
corridor. There was a concern that Federal government would not be willing to
give us money in the future. Unless the entire project can be supported, he doesn’t
think he can support this.
Director Pulliam asked how much commitment to the Boulder corridor has already
been spent. Mr. Van Meter said the current commitment is $208 million and no
money from the $208 million has been spent. We have spent between 20-25

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 4 of 9

million for BRT Phase 1. Director Pulliam wants a thorough analysis of what has
been spent so far on US 36 BRT.
General Manager Washington added that $208 million was the original
commitment. Nothing has spent against that. Phase I work has been completed
but no monies have been spent on Phase 2. One of the big issues in this action is
leveraging. We are leveraging monies that other folks are bringing to the table. We
can do quite a bit of good with this money.
Chair Kemp said that he takes a regional approach to the FasTracks program. This
action makes sense in that we are completing a viable part of the FasTracks
program.
It addresses congestion and public need.
This is a significant
improvement.
Director McMullen said he will support the motion. It is what his constituents
want. They understand it is a regional issue, we are being pragmatic with the
dollars we have and we are continuing FasTracks.
Director Brohl thought that the terms that were used on first bullet on the Con list
maybe are misstated. Any dollars that we use in any corridor cannot be used in
another corridor. What she is hearing staff say is that there is $200 million
budgeted for bus rapid transit in the US 36 corridor. We have 30 million that we
can choose to use in one of two ways: we can choose to use it as part of the
$200 million already budgeted. By approving this action, we get the benefit of all
these other dollars. If we don’t put our $30 mil in, this doesn’t happen and the
money dries up. This gives us something in the ground: a functional, tangible,
deliverable. She is not hearing that $30 million is being taken from another
corridor. This is something already budgeted and she will support it.
Director Malpiede thanked Director Brohl for her comments. The piece that is
important is the collaboration of the community that has come together to get this
done. Communities have done their due diligence to bring us a tangible project.
This will be better for the FasTracks vote.
Director Cohen commended Director O’Boyle for his thoughtful opposition. He will
support the action because of the leverage and coming together of communities.
We told people to find other players and find other monies and this is what they
did. It is our turn to step up to the plate and follow through on our commitment.
Director O’Boyle wanted a clarification on the accuracy of the first bullet on the
Con list that it would leave $30 million less for other FasTracks projects and this
doesn’t correspond with Director Brohl’s statements. This has serious implications.
Leverage is a good tool but not to the extent where some part of the project is left
behind. Director O’Boyle would like to defer this action and would give staff an
opportunity to respond to that first bullet and what that really means.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 5 of 9

Marla Lien responded that we are not reducing any corridor’s adopted FasTracks
budget. Whatever was adopted and adjusted by the APE is not being reduced but
we all know that the FasTracks Financial plan that was adopted (including the sales
tax assumptions vetted through a regional process and DRCOG) indicates that we
will not have sufficiently available cash on hand to complete those corridor budgets
and certainly between now and 2011 we are severely constrained with cash on
hand. Yes it is true between now and 2011 and 2012 knowing the amount of cash
we will have on hand means $30 million spent on one corridor means $30 million is
not available for another corridor.
General Manager Washington added that this is in the absence of additional funds
in 2011 and 2012. What we are saying is that some of the construction ready
work that we were looking to do in other corridors we would not be able to do.
Mr. Van Meter said he stands by the wording in the bullet and he was agreeing
with Director Brohl’s statement in that the $30 million was committed by the Board
in September of 2009. There was no relative difference or impact on other projects
as that money was already committed. The two are not in conflict.
Director Cohen said that this is a zero sum gain; no money is being taken from any
other corridor’s budget.
Director Busck said the fact is nothing is coming out of anyone else’s corridor.
Thirty million is coming out of $208 million and it will enhance our image by finally
getting something done in the North area.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors offer a contingent fiscal commitment of $30 million to leverage the $10
million awarded to the U.S. 36 Corridor project through the “Transportation
Investment Generating Economic Recovery” (TIGER) grant program into a
significant, $160 million project, based on the following contingencies:
a.
The Eagle P3 project financial close matches or betters the established
budget as anticipated.
b.
The balance of $130 million project funding is found and committed to by
the by the loan deadline.
c.
In order to demonstrate local financial support to U.S. DOT and to satisfy
Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) to commit $769,231 in local match via cash
or in-kind cost reductions to RTD’s share of the project.
Through preparation of the U.S. 36 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the U.S.
36 communities, in concert with RTD and the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT), have been planning improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor
for the last six years. The planning efforts have culminated in the recommendation
of multi-modal improvements ready for implementation. Funding for the $30 million
is included in the FasTracks Financial Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT – Phase 2 project and
is programmed for expenditure in 2010 and 2011, which meets the fiscal obligation
timeframe requirements for TIGER.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 6 of 9

Motion:

Director Busck made a
motion to forward this action item
to the May 18, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Brohl seconded
the motion.

Vice- Chair James wanted to clarify; our commitment of $30 million gets us $130
in other people’s money? Mr. Van Meter said we are short $17 million but with the
commitment from RTD we are confident we can pursue the TIFIA loan for this
project. September 2010 will be the formal application for the loan. We are
pursuing every avenue to find the money to close the gap.
Vote on
Motion:



The motion passed 10-1 (Directors
Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, Martinez,
McMullen, and Pulliam voted in
favor, Director O’Boyle voted
against.)

Budget Transfer for West Corridor - Susan Cohen brought this action forward to
the Committee. In the 2010 Adopted budget a less aggressive construction
scheduled was assumed. Construction is moving very rapidly on the West Corridor.
Half the budget has been spent already and we have committed our entire budget
for 2010. There are invoices and property acquisitions coming in the next month
so staff is requesting the budget transfer.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a transfer of $20,000,000 from the West Corridor Parking
Garage project to the West Corridor project budget. This transfer would accelerate
funding originally programmed in 2011 for the West Corridor project into 2010.
Funding for the West Corridor parking garages would be replenished in the 2010
Amended Budget to allow design-bid packages for the garages to be issued in late
2010.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a
motion to forward this action item
to the May 18, 2010 Board
meeting agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 7 of 9

II.

First Quarter Internal Audit Report - Bill Holmes and Kevin Parker were present to answer
any questions on the report that was included in the packet. There were no questions on
this item.

III.

First Quarter 2010 Investment Report - Teresa Sedmak gave this report. Our year to date
yield is significantly lower than last year with interest rates at historically low levels. The
District is a 2.4% versus 3.3% for the entirety of 2009. We are struggling as far as
getting yield on our investments.

IV.

Fitch Ratings Recalibration of RTD Credit Ratings, Standard and Poor’s Revised
Outlook, Moody’s Revised RTD Credit Ratings - Teresa Sedmak gave this report and said
our credit ratings which have recently been recalibrated to be more comparable to other
credits. Our ratings were revised upwards by both agencies. These are revised ratings,
not upgrades. Standard and Poor’s did affirmed the ratings and revised its outlook on
COPs for RTD based on “the possibility that significant additional appropriations
obligations might be encumbered on prior-lien sales tax debt issues as part of RTD’s Eagle
P3 project” and staff feels this is premature as we do not have any bids yet. We are not
going to be downgraded; they are concerned about the financial obligations we are
undertaking for that contract.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know if this has an effect on our ability to borrow money and
the rates. Ms. Sedmak answered we have strong credit and the upward movements in the
ratings do make a difference in the cost at which we can borrow.
Director Pulliam has some concern over the credibility of rating agencies. Ms. Sedmak
said there has been some concern over the validity of credit ratings. What she has
observed over the past year and a half is that credit agencies have gotten more stringent
and are asking more questions and really delving into the credit.

V.

RTD Participation Under the State of Colorado Merchant Card Purchasing Program
With Wells Fargo Merchant Services - Teresa Sedmak reported that the District has used a
number of different vendors in the past and is now consolidating to one contract with
Wells Fargo which will allow us to achieve a pricing advantage on our credit card
processing. Mr. Howerter said this will be key to re-starting credit card services at Civic
Center and Market Street Stations and moving toward credit card service down the
Southeast line.
Director McMullen commended staff for the $30,000 savings.

VI.

Random Audit by Internal Revenue Service – RTD $116,460,000
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2004A – Ms. Sedmak said that staff has been working
on this for awhile. In late January 2010 staff received document request on bonds issued
in 2004 for TREX. They will be looking at how we spent the proceeds and making sure
we are in compliance with IRS laws regarding municipal bonds. We are cooperating with
the investigation and have no reason to believe we are not in compliance with the
requirements. We are using Sherman & Howard as counsel as they were bond counsel on
the transaction.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 8 of 9

VII.

March 2010 Financial Status Report – Terry Howerter gave this report. Ridership for
month of March is down 4.8%. Cost recovery ratio is in compliance through March of
2010. Sales tax is $2 million higher than March of 2009. Our run rate year to date is
3.2% over 2009. This is good news in the March receipts. Mr. Howerter noted that in
March of 2009 we did not have vendor allowance exemption and we have that in March
of 2010. Without that we would be about break even with March of 2009.
Director O’Boyle wanted a clarification on fare revenue and ridership. Fare increase in
January 2009 and yet since that time we have had a decrease in ridership but an increase
in fare revenue. It seems illogical to say it is due to fare increase.
Mr. Howerter shared that accounting for our ten ride ticketbooks is much better and use of
these passes is way up over 2009. In addition our college passes are up over 2009 as
well.

VIII.

2011-2016 Transit Development Program Second Draft and 2010 Amended Budget
Update – Terry Howerter gave his presentation. Continuing to monitor sales tax and fuel.
2010 Amended budget will be coming at next meeting. The District is looking at several
ideas for containing costs and cutting budgets.
There was a lengthy discussion regarding some of these issues such as charging a fare for
the 16th Street Mall shuttle, increasing eco-pass rates, eliminating transfers, contractors
paying full price for fuel, reducing the contractors guaranteed profit margins, and service
cuts.
Mr. Abel responded to the issue of fuel costs for the contractors, that they would add a
risk premium to the contract. Treating fuel as a pass through eliminates the risk premium
and that more than offsets what they would build in for risk premium.
Mr. Abel spoke to the contractors guaranteed profit margins, reducing this might not get
the desired effect as the contracts have only had small increases. The contractors have
been very sensitive to our economic needs. The smallest increase was .5 and largest was
1.5%.
Director Malpiede asked about the elimination of transfers. We are losing revenue with
people using transfers incorrectly and illegally. Mr. Abel shared that staff is looking at a
variety of ways we can address the transfer issue maybe with a Day Pass or Smart Card.
Director Brohl spoke to the evaluation of fares on the 16th Street Mall, we would have to
get new buses, the three door buses will not work. We would need to do an analysis on
how people pay to come downtown and take into account the goodwill that could be lost
and delays on the service. Mr. Howerter shared that he is not even sure how we would
price revenue on this.
Director Busck said whatever we choose to do effects many different areas. He
proposes to the board that we not play a dart game when we are looking at the amount of

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 11, 2010
Page 9 of 9

people or dollars; we have to look at the whole picture. If we need a Friday or Saturday to
look at these issues and focus on ridership and services. If we take things one at a time,
we will lose the war.
Director McMullen wanted to know how much money does RTD gets from fare evasion.
Staff answered that RTD receives nothing, it goes to the jurisdiction. He wanted to know
if this is something we ought to pursue in terms of getting revenue. General Counsel
Marla Lien shared that we have looked at this extensively. It is not ever going to be worth
the administration costs. The State statue has criminal enforcement which acts as a
deterrent, RTD would not be able to have criminal enforcement.
Director McMullen noted that Salt Lake City has their own transit police and he wanted
information and numbers on how this works.
Director O’Boyle suggested checking with E-470 and Ms. Lien said they have special
permission through the tolling authority to collect the fines.
Director Martinez wanted to look at fare increases and additional advertising. Are there
other ways we can get advertising revenue?
He was concerned about the elimination of transfers and reminded the committee that this
could really affect people that have to take several routes to get to work or to look for a
job. We would need a solution for them.
Director Daly wondered about the vendor allowance and if we could extend it. Ms. Lien
thought that would be very difficult given the current climate at the legislature.
Mr. Howerter said the TDP and amended budget will come back to the Committee in June
2010 with final approval in July 2010. This is a very tight time frame with all the other
meetings and the Eagle P3 decision.
Director Martinez wanted to know when we will get April sales tax numbers. Mr.
Howerter said that it will not be before the next Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting. April sales tax figures will come in on June 5, 2010.
IX.

Other Matters - No other matters were discussed.

X.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee will be June 1, 2010.

XI.

Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee -Vice-Chair James declared the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting adjourned at 7:26 p.m.

