Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 22, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
September 22, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve (12) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Cohen arrived after
roll call. Director James was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Helen Rahming was available to receive her award. Mike Gil, Acting AGM for Bus Operations,
presented this award and talked about Helen’s extensive 32 years of work history that
spanned from driving a bus to retiring as the Assistant Manager for Bus Operations working for
Greg Yates.
Helen Rahming indicated she will treasure the moments and memories that she has of working
for RTD. Director Daly added Helen was one of the first female bus drivers.
Special Awards-Board members who participated in Roadeo driving challenge
The following Directors were presented with awards for their participation in the bus roadeo on
August 29, 2009:
Director Tom Tobiassen, 1st Place
Director Bruce Daly, 2nd Place
Director Matt Cohen, 3rd place
Amidst some friendly ribbing, Matt Cohen expressed that he acquired a profound respect for
the job of the bus operators and the level of skills and sheer dexterity required. His hat is off
to them for the good job they do on a day-to-day basis.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Ralph Owens, member of the Arvada Transportation Committee provided his support to the
RFP for the P3 and shared a number of reasons why this is good for the region. He shared
some comparisons to Europe and how the people have embraced public transportation as
being good for the environment and good for business.
Kim Day, Manager of the Department of Aviation at DIA, provided a handout with some
statistics about DIA and a copy of their master plan. She emphasized four areas where the
East Corridor train will benefit the airport: Environmental concerns, passenger demand,
employee needs and the DIA-RTD Intermodal partnership. She stated the importance of this
East corridor to the DIA Master Plan.
Honorable Mayor Bob Frie, Arvada, shared the Arvada City support for the release of the

Eagle P3 and their ongoing support for the full build out of the entire system.
Rick Gibbons representing the City of Arvada Gold Line Advisory Committee offered their
support to the East and Gold Lines, Maintenance Facility and Northwest tracking system
that is proposed as the first two phases of the P-3 rollout.
Jane Schnabel, member of Arvada Advisory Committee, spoke of the positive partnering
relationship they have with RTD and offered support to the issuance of the Eagle P3 RFP.
Bob Wilson, Chair of the Gold Line Advisory Committee, supports the issuance of the Eagle
P3 RFP and emphasized the importance of implementing in a timely manner. He expressed
that it was a collaborative regional effort that gave birth in 2004 to the approval of
FasTracks and it will take no less to finish the product.
Bill Mitchell representing Visit Denver, stated support for the release of the Eagle P3 RFP
and spoke to the importance of having a good transportation system to attract companies
and visitors to Colorado. He shared that one factor in the loss of a bid for a convention in
Denver was the concern regarding the distance from DIA to downtown Denver and the lack
of adequate, affordable transportation. He believes the East Corridor will provide a
competitive advantage for Denver and will allow them to advertise in their brochure this
option for transportation from DIA to Denver.
Honorable Mayor Nancy Sharpe, Greenwood Village and Chair of the Metro Mayors Caucus,
stated they support the moving forward of FasTracks and understand the challenges of a
full system build out. They are supportive of finding solutions to the financial dilemma and
the need to explore options. However, the solution does not need to pit one area of this
region against another but instead look for a regional solution for all stakeholders. FasTracks
is significant to the environment and has economic impact. It gives the metropolitan region
a competitive edge for growth in future communities coming together for TOD development
and sustainable growth. They support a continuous and full build out of FasTracks.
Craig Kocian, City of Arvada, provided his support for Eagle P3 RFP release for the Gold
Line and the full build out of the regional system.
Irene Fouts, Bailey, spoke on the upcoming close of the Pine Junction park-n-Ride. She
noted a number of Pine Junction park-n-Ride users get dropped off so reliance on the
number of cars in the parking lot is not truly indicative of the number of riders. The
Montview facility provide insufficient protection, does not have emergency phones and
poses more of a safety hazard including; traffic backup, nowhere to stage buses or to
turnaround properly. She also shared one of the factors affecting current ridership is the
high number of people who have lost jobs in Park and Jefferson Counties. When the
economy turns around, we should expect increased ridership. Moreso than ever, the
residents there will be dependent on bus service to find employment and to get around.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck provided an update from this committee. Krauthamer
provided their update on current status including the posting of the ad in The Wall Street
Journal which will be on their website for 30 days. Additional postings will be in The Denver
Post, Denver Business Journal, COMTO and APTA. They have revised the search line and plan
to share with the full Board in a couple of weeks. They are also identifying a strategy for
stakeholder involvement and the subcommittee hopes to have this ready for Board review and

approval shortly. They have started the discussion on comparable compensation models
including trying to identify the questions that prospective candidates may have on housing
allowance and other benefits type questions.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
There was no Metro Mayors report.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 18, 2009
MOTION:

Director Brohl moved for the adoption of the August 18, 2009
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Daly had stepped out and Director James was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 FasTracks Presentation to Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce
Interim General Manager Phil Washington and Maria Garcia Berry briefed approximately
100 people from the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce. Liz Rao, former
FasTracks Manager, provided the introduction.
 FasTracks Briefing and Meeting with Adams County Commissioners, September 16
Director Busck, Interim General Manager Phil Washington and RTD staff provided an
update to the Adams County Commissioners on FasTracks.
 Interview with WYNC Public Radio Reporter Regarding FasTracks, September 17
As part of the White House Town Hall Forum, Interim General Manager Phil Washington
had a chance to talk to a reporter who was following this tour. They conducted this
interview at the DUS platform where they communicated RTD has one of the most
aggressive transit programs in the country.
 COMTO Town Hall Presentation, September 17
Interim General Manager Phil Washington presented to approximately 125 people on
the benefits of FasTracks and the investment to this community. Directors Tobiassen
and Cohen were present.


White House Town Hall Forum, September 18
Interim General Manager Phil Washington participated in a full day of activities
scheduled in support of the tour by White House Secretaries of EPA, HUD and DOT.
This was part of an urban affairs tour focusing on affordable housing, environmental
and transportation issues and included a number of elected officials and officers
including the Director of Urban Affairs. Phil Washington presented on FasTracks and
DUS. RTD provided the train for the entourage to travel to 10th and Osage where they
announced financial support for the Lincoln Housing development. Board members
participating in the community forum included Chair Kemp and Directors Brohl, Daly
James and Pulliam.



Trip to Omaha to visit Union Pacific Railroad Officials, September 21
Chair Kemp and Director Busck along with Interim General Manager Phil Washington

and John Shonsey traveled to Omaha to visit Union Pacific Railroad Officials and update
them on the importance of the FasTracks project. They were well received by the
senior officials from UP who thanked the elected officials for showing an interest in
relationship building. This trip helped to position RTD with the UP officials who have
several projects under consideration with various transit sources.


Travel to Washington DC for Congressional Visit, September 23-25
Interim General Manager Phil Washington and Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations
Officer, traveled to Washington, DC to meet with the Colorado Congressional Delegates
as well as Congressmen from other states who are interested in FasTracks.



TIGGER Grants
RTD was recently awarded two TIGGER grants: $770,000 for the East Metro Bus
Maintenance facility at a savings of $135,000 per year and $325,000 to Boulder for a
heating upgrade, a savings of $72,000 per year. Interim General Manager Phil
Washington will apprise the Board on any impacts to the budget.

Director Christopher inquired for current status on the RTD property in Fort Lupton. Phil
Washington indicated he will check and follow up later. Director Busck indicated there are
some discussions and inquires and there could be a movement by the City of Brighton to annex
some of the property.
X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through H.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director James was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant
Contingent Commitment
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors offer fiscal support for the U.S. 36 application for “Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery” (TIGER) funds. Through preparation of the U.S. 36
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the U.S. 36 communities, in concert with RTD
and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), have been planning
improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor for the last six years. The planning efforts have
culminated in the recommendation of multi-modal improvements ready for
implementation. It is recommended that RTD offer support for the application by
pledging $30 million for transit-related improvements, beginning in 2010, contingent
upon the receipt of at least $30 million in TIGER grant funds for the U.S. 36 project and
a corresponding match commitment from CDOT. Committing these matching funds will
strengthen the application and better position this project to maximize the opportunity
for federal funding. Funding for the $30 million is included in the FasTracks Financial
Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT - Phase 2 project.

B.

January 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of

Directors approve moving the proposed January 10, 2010 Service Changes
(Attachment A) on to public review and comment.

XI.

C.

2010-2015 Transit Development Program (TDP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the 2010-2015 Transit Development Program (TDP).

D.

Adoption of 2010 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2010 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.

E.

Kacey Fine Furniture Easement at 11305 W. 6th Avenue, Lakewood, CO
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to grant a permanent parking easement underneath a proposed LRT bridge
extension to the owners of the adjacent Kacey Fine Furniture property at 11305 W. 6th
Avenue, Lakewood, Colorado.

F.

Recommendation for Amendment of Contract for Outside Legal Counsel – PPP
Concession Agreement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that a contract amendment
in the amount of $1.325 million be added to the contract with the firms of Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (Freshfields) and Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell LLP (KKR) to assist
in all steps necessary to procure a concessionaire and draft a concession agreement for
construction of the Gold Line and East Corridor commuter rail lines through a Public
Private Partnership (PPP). The total contract not to exceed amount will be increased to
$4.325 million. Funding for this contract in 2009 is included in the 2009 Amended
Budget for the PPP project. Funding for 2010 and 2011 is included in future years for
the FasTracks financial plan.

G.

Budget Transfer for Central Corridor Signal Software Modifications
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of $2.1 million from the Central Corridor Enhancements capital
budget to the FasTracks expense budget to cover an IGA with the City and County of
Denver for signal systems enhancements to allow increased frequency of LRT
operations, which cannot be classified as a capital expenditure by RTD. Funding for
this project is included in the 2009 Amended Budget for the FasTracks Central Corridor
Enhancements capital project.

H.

Budget Transfer for Station Area Master Plans (STAMPS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of $813,280 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the
FasTracks expense budget to provide funding for Station Area Master Planning, Next
Steps Planning and Corridor-Wide Planning. Funding for these projects is provided
through federal Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) grants and local
jurisdictions.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

I.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Final One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the fourth and final one-year option with Ciber as well
as incrementally increasing the total contract upset limit an additional $475,000 to
extend the contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK008).
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to Ciber through the competitive bid
process totally separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year
plus four one-year options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor.
Through negotiations, Ciber has agreed to reduce their billing rate 9% for the remainder
of the current option year through the term of the final option year ending April 25,
2011.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve IT
Contingency Work Order Contract Final One-Year Option.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Kemp indicated he was the one who had pulled this
item from the unanimous consent agreement and had his
questions answered. He is satisfied this item can move
forward.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director James was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

J.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 – Decrease in Director’s TRAVEL Expenses
(Updated for 2010)
MOTION:
Director Brohl made the motion to approve this item.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.
Chair Kemp explained this item was discussed at the
Executive Committee and brought forth to be voted by
the full Board. The change is needed because the current
resolution covered 1 year only (2009).
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director James was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

K.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 - Decrease in Director’s LOCAL Expenses
(Updated for 2010)
MOTION:
Director McMullen made the motion to approve this item.

Director Busck seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

Director Christopher raised the issue that a number of
them have been incurring excessive mileage charges due
to the number of adhoc committee meetings, FasTracks
meetings, GM Executive Search Committees and he felt
local expenses need to be reviewed for mileage. Director
Busck and Chair Kemp agreed with the concern but
shared this issue will be addressed at the next Financial
Administration Committee. Directors Christopher and
Pulliam felt this item should be removed or tabled pending
the outcome from the discussion. Director Chacon
expressed that during this period of poor economy, a
sacrifice might be appropriate. After much discussion,
Director Chacon called for the question.

VOTE ON THE CALL
FOR THE QUESTION: A voice vote was made on the call for the question.
The motion passed.
VOTE ON THE
RESOLUTION:

The resolution passed 10 in favor (Cohen, Chacon,
Busck, Tayer, Kemp, O’Boyle, McMullen, Tobiassen,
Brohl and Bagley) and 4 against (Christopher, Pulliam,
Martinez and Daly). Director James was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

L.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009 - REGIONAL EQUITY COMPACT RESOLUTION
Director Tayer thanked the Board for their support and willingness to draft a
resolution that they perceived to be equitable and fair. However,
In a subsequent conversation with Mayor Murphy, Mayor Murphy noted the Metro
Mayors Caucus, representing communities from across the Denver metropolitan
region, shares the same interest in addressing concerns regarding the equitable
allocation of FasTracks resources that the draft resolution highlights. To that end,
Mayor Murphy suggested that we refer the issue to the FasTracks Task Force, an
ongoing partnership between the RTD Board, the Metro Mayors Caucus and the
business and environmental communities. The Task Force will report back to the
Metro Mayors Caucus and the RTD Board of Directors within 60 to 90 days on their
own proposal for addressing these equity issues while continuing to work toward
full build-out of the FasTracks program.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to pull this item from the
agenda.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed 14 in favor and 0 against. Director
James was absent.

Several Directors commented on this resolution:
Director Christopher indicated he was not here when this resolution was presented.
However he fully supports this resolution and the intent and spirit aligned to his
constituency. Had he been here, he would have supported this resolution.
Director Martinez reminded the Board it is important to remember what we are trying to
accomplish. We cannot short change the process or the fact that there will be costs in
circulators and feeder service to get people from their homes to the platform in the
regions where the trains are going in. We will still need to be able to move people from
point A to B and this must be factored into any proposal for service changes. It is
important that the Board talk to staff throughout this process and capture the financial
cost to this whole region.
Director McMullen applauded the Directors in the North for their courage and what they
were trying to do in bringing forth equity. He offered his support in spirit to the goal of
this resolution as one Director from the South supporting the North.
M.

Issuance of Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP), Increase Stipend Agreement,
Negotiation of Compensation Agreements
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors:
(a) directs staff to issue the Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP) on September 30,
2009 to allow the East Corridor, Gold Line and Northwest Rail Electrified Segment to be
jointly procured and delivered under a single concession agreement so that all corridors
will open for passenger service in 2016 in accordance with the FasTracks program
(b) approves an increase in the amount of the stipend agreement from $1,750,000 to
$2,500,000 per team to provide bidder teams an increased incentive to remain in the
Eagle P3 procurement process which, in turn, will provide a more competitive process
that will maximize the value to RTD.
(c) authorizes the transfer of $2,250,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the
PPP project in the FasTracks capital budget to pay for the increase in the stipend
amount. This would advance funding included in the FasTracks financial plan in 2010
for PPP preparation.
(d) authorizes the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a compensation agreement
with the three pre-qualified teams invited to respond to the Eagle Project RFP (the
Proposers) in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 to be payable in the event that
RTD elects not, or is unable, to execute and implement a concession agreement with
the selected proposer through no fault of the selected proposer. Payment only will be
made to the team that is selected by the Board for a contract award, and not to the
unsuccessful teams. As a condition of this compensation RTD would receive all of the
design work, including calculations, analyses and other supporting work that the
selected team completed as part of the proposal process. Additional funding of $17.5
million for the compensation agreement, which equals the difference between the
stipend amount and the compensation agreement amount for the selected proposer, is
included in the FasTracks financial plan for the Eagle project corridors in 2010, and will
be budgeted at that time.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the issuance
of Eagle project request for RFP.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Several Board members provided comments related to
this action item.
Directors Busck and Tayer indicated they would support

this action but want every opportunity explored to look at
what cost savings there may be.
Director Christopher noted that in 2004 when the voters
voted for FasTracks there were a number of assumptions
built into the package, one of which was PPP. He never
dreamed we would be faced with this dilemma—moving
ahead but leaving other corridors at risk. He will vote for
this but this has strong political consequences. He has
struggled long and hard with this decision but it is a good
business decision for RTD and this region.
Director Brohl reemphasized it is critical that the entire
FasTracks program is built out. She applauded staff and
the Board in working through those tough issues to move
ahead and make a good decision based on doing the most
good for as many as possible. She commends staff for
thinking outside the box. As we move forward we need
to continue to look outside the box for creative solutions
and to stay steadfastly committed to the full regional
corridor build out of FasTracks.
Director Martinez stated this is a regional approach. It is
the Board’s responsibility to keep their eyes on the ball
and the bottom line and to challenge and question
anything that is out of line. They will need to ask the
tough questions—how can we make savings and stay
within the budget and timeline to deliver this regional
product. The Board cannot let up in showing due
diligence in making this a regional solution.
Director McMullen stated as the Chair of the FasTracks
committee, he wants everyone to know we are still on
time with our build out process and will get there as
promised in the 2004 election. We have our guiding
principles and roadmaps and he is confident we will get
there. He then commented on how ironic that the Board
would be celebrating their 40 years as an elected Board
while addressing another crossroads in their history.
Chair Kemp summarized the comments by thanking staff
and the Board for all the hard work it took to get to this
point and move the vision forward. This has required
true diligence and work with the constituents and the
public to put things in place to reassure we can move in
the right direction.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed 14 in favor and 0 against. Director
James was absent.

Chair Kemp read the following statement from Director James:
“I am unable to attend this Board meeting, so I am unable to vote, but I appreciate this
opportunity provided by Chair Kemp to inform the Board of my position on the Eagle
Project RFP. I won’t go into all of the details here because we have fully discussed and
considered the Eagle Project RFP. Please know that if I was able to be present at this
meeting I would vote for the Recommended Actions including Item M, regarding the

Eagle Project RFP with its provisions a, b, c and d. The Eagle Project is a vital part of
the FasTracks project. With its various components that have been added recently,
and with the Federal funding that increasingly looks to be available, release of the Eagle
Project RFP is a very important step toward success of the FasTracks project.”
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
Phil Washington requested permission to review a brief PowerPoint outlining the next
steps following the approval for the release of the RFP. He reviewed the steps leading
up to each key decision and indicated the next going forward steps will be the approval
of the 2010 financial plan and the APE and Financial plan review on 10/8/09. He
committed to providing these steps to the Board for future and all critical FasTracks
decisions.
XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business. Director McMullen wanted to thank Irene Fouts, the lone
ranger who came to speak on the Pine Junction closure.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business

XIV.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, September 22, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Shirley Bennett
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Carol Duecker
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien

Caitlin Magee
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Helen Rahming – RTD retired
Brian Middleton
Maria Garcia Berry
Ed Colby – URS
M. MacIntyre – MTP
H. Seekings – MTP
Eliot Jamison – MTP
John Weber – UCD
Ralph Owens – Arvada Transportation Committee
Mary Buckley – DIA
Ravi Swamy – BBRI
Stever Roberts – Systra
Linda Brown
Jane Schnabel – GLAC
Gene Putman – City of Thornton
Rick Gibbons – City of Arvada
Jim Beers – Fluor
Beth Beers
The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of Lone Tree
T. Hower – MTP

Julie Skeen
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Susan Wood
Greg Yates

S. Roescher – MTP
T. Rose – MTP
Ed Romero – R/W
Kim Day – DIA
Brian Pinkerton – City and County of Denver
Fred Hansen – JCI
Bob Wilson – GLAC
Bill Mitchell – Visit Denver
The Honorable Nancy Sharpe – Metro Mayors
Craig Kocian – City of Arvada
Mac Callison – City of Aurora
Suellen Cole
Irene Fouts
Bob Manwaring
The Honorable Bob Frie – Mayor of Arvada

