1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, January 6, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:24 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:35 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:24 PM
6:24 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

6:24 PM
6:35 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:24 PM
6:24 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:36 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:33 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:24 PM
6:33 PM

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Jim Kelley,
Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Nikita
Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Margaret Ansted, John Ansted, Ernest Archuleta,
Felisha Archuleta, Jena Archuleta, Loressa Archuleta, Rose Archuleta,
Caryn Boddie, Peter Boddie, Matt Cohen, Michael Cummings, Andrea
DeBarros, Mike Dino, Mike Donahue, David Eckerle, Justin Everett,
Frank Francone, Frank Francone Sr., Frankie Francone, Stuart
Francone, Derek Fynboh, Ferris Fynboh, Jami Fynboh, Alicia Garcia,
Joni Goheen, Dale Honor, Eugene Howard, Kathy Hoy, Kerstin
Kimbriel, Sam Kimbriel, Brant Langdon, Alyssa Montoya, Bill Mark,
Logan Mark, Honorable Judge Neighbors, David Pineda, Joe Racosky,
David Ruchman, Terre Rushton, Leo Sankauski, Chairman Seku,
Kenny Shepard, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Ean Tafoya, Shane
Tempel, Rebecca Thomas, Debra Ulett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Joe Webb, Monte Whaley, Bob Wilson, Ken Witt

B. Recommended Actions

• Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
Station Naming Plan, codifying final name and nomenclature changes for
the U.S. 36 BRT Line as follows:
a. Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
b. The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US
36•Sheridan station.
c. The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa
station.
d. All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S.
36•Church Ranch; U.S. 36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S.
36•McCaslin)

Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the January 20, 2015 Board
Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Nadine Lee, US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Project Manager,
stated that this action relates to the nomenclature for each
boarding area as well as two potential name changes along the
US 36 BRT Line. She said that the first component requests
that boarding areas be referred to as “stations”. This follows
RTD’s naming philosophy of all other high capacity corridors
while “stops” are typically used along services like local bus
routes. She noted that the second part requesting renaming
two stations is to provide clarity. There is a Westminster
station planned along the Northwest Rail Line so changing the
current US 36 • Westminster Center station to US 36 •
Sheridan station prevents confusion. Additionally, there are
several Park-n-Rides along Table Mesa. Renaming this station
to include US 36 clarifies that this is the BRT station.
Nadine Lee explained that this recommendation was being
brought to the Board now so that they could proceed with
sign fabrication, providing enough lead time for the fabrication
to be done by opening day. She noted that this action has no
financial impact; the project budget already includes funding to
fabricate the signs. The only impact would be if signs had to
be re-printed at a later date.
Nadine Lee stated that staff has presented this to stakeholders
and received a general consensus and support for the
proposal.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that he confirmed with the City of
Westminster that they were supportive of the renaming of
their station.
Chair Sisk thanked Nadine Lee, Rick Clarke, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs, and Chris Quinn, Planning
Project Manager, for their efforts in working with the
stakeholders to form a consensus. He reiterated how
important it is for RTD to continue to build trust with our
stakeholders on all our projects.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Update
Nadine Lee reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is
available in the January 6, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet. She also provided a US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Reference
Guide. She explained that the reference guide provides important
background information on the project as well as highlighting some major
features. Nadine Lee offered to meet with any Board member that would
like to review the project in greater detail.
Nadine Lee outlined the notable US 36 BRT/Express Lanes Progress as
follows:
 Phase I (Federal Blvd to 88th Street)
o Over 86% complete
o 6 bridges complete
o Eastbound mainline paving and slip ramps complete
o Eastbound Broomfield platform complete
 Phase II (88th Street to Table Mesa)
o Over 44% complete
 Programmatic BRT Activities
o Branding identity complete – Flatiron Flyer
o Issued Notice to Proceed for opening day vehicle procurement
Committee Chair Hoy commented that the Board should be very pleased that
Nadine Lee is working on this project. He said she does such an amazing
job though her enthusiasm and dedication to working with the stakeholders.
He thanked her for all her hard work.
Chair Sisk extended his appreciation to the entire project team. He shared
that he just attended a US 36 Commuting Solutions breakfast at which
General Manager Washington gave a very informative presentation. He said
that people are very excited about what is happening; the thought of having
US 36 BRT in operation this year is pretty amazing.
Chair Sisk indicated that he is often asked when there will be a switch from
HOV2+ to HOV3+. He recognizes this is a CDOT question but hopes it

can be something RTD begins to educate the stakeholders about with
CDOT’s assistance. Nadine Lee stated that the change will happen by 2017
at the latest but she did not have an exact date.
Chair Sisk inquired if the canopies at the stations would have real time
information. Nadine Lee said that each station has a programmable display
that will have the schedule information on opening day. General Manager
Washington explained that the infrastructure at the stations will be in place
for real time information as soon as the technology becomes available.
Director Bagley pointed out that the intersection at US 36 and McCaslin
Boulevard will be a diverging diamond interchange. This type of interchange
is different than any other interchange in the RTD system as well as the first
of its kind in the region. He thinks it might be worthwhile for the Board to
have another presentation about how the interchange works. Nadine Lee
shared that there is a fact sheet that was prepared by CDOT as well as a
video. She said she will get the Board some additional information.
General Manager Washington stated that a Request for Qualifications (RFQ)
has been issued for custom buses that better meet the criteria for true BRT
(i.e. low floor, two doors, quick loading, etc.); RTD received five proposals
that are currently in the review process. He said that staff would keep the
Board updated on the process and if any Requests for Proposals (RFPs) are
issued.
General Manager Washington commented that another important piece of
the project is the education and outreach that CDOT will be doing in
conjunction with RTD. He said the Board would begin to see these activities
in the coming months.
General Manager Washington noted that the last piece staff was working on
was the Grand Opening of the BRT with CDOT. He explained that RTD will
have the buses in October, 2015, but Phase II of the managed lanes will not
yet be complete. He shared that he recognizes that CDOT wants to have a
Grand Opening but it does not make sense for RTD to be running the BRT
buses for two or three months and then have the Grand Opening. He
recognized that it will be important for RTD to coordinate this with CDOT
and the contractor.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 3, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:04 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

