Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 23, 2007 1:00
p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 18, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 16,
2007 at 1:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Chairman Pro Tem Bill Christopher; Director Lee Kemp,
Treasurer; Directors Elfenbein, and Busck
Directors Brohl, Secretary; Quinlan, Second Vice-Chair,
and Kinton (via telephone)
Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Paula Perdue
Jeff Lieb, Kevin Flynn
Chairman Pro Tem Christopher called the meeting to
order at 1:00 p.m.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella provided an explanation of the following items listed under
Unanimous Consent. Additionally, the request was made by Director
Kemp to move Recommendation Modification to RTD Investment Policy
and Adoption of 2007 Performance Measures to Unanimous Consent
from Recommended Action since they had been passed out of
committee.
 Unanimous Consent
Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass
enclosure located on the wall at the entryway to the RTD
Administration office located at 1600 Blake St as the location for
posting of public notices including Board and Committee meetings
for 2007.
Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract with the Seniors’
Resource Center for the Provision of “Evergreen call-n-Ride”
contracted demand response transit services. This contract is for
one year for an amount not to exceed $498,144 with four (4)
one-year options in the amount of $517,684 (option year 1),
$539,653 (option year 2) $562,593 (option year 3) and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 23, 2007 1:00
p.m. Page 2 of 5
$586,504 (option year 4), for a total five year amount not to
exceed $2,704,578. These costs are based on an hourly rate and
include estimated fuel costs which will be treated as a “passthrough.” This proposal represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 16D0046, to provide “Evergreen” Public Transportation
Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to
begin March 11, 2007.
Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement
with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to
provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $500,000.
Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement
with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR
VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2007 and shall be in an amount not
to exceed $350,000.
Cost Sharing Agreements-FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding
agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision
of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County,
Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for
calendar year 2007 and for amounts not to exceed $323,420 for
Boulder County, $87,035 for Adams County and $89,116 for
Jefferson County.
Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing
Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 23, 2007 1:00
p.m. Page 3 of 5
Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas.
This agreement is for calendar year 2007 and is for an amount not
to exceed $1,207,418. It is also recommended that the Board
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an
Agreement with Special Transit, to provide local match funding for
the acquisition of HOP replacement vehicles in an amount not to
exceed $915,000.
Extraordinary Snow Event Funding
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $850,000 from
the bus operations diesel fuel account to fund the contracted snow
removal services in 2007. In addition, it is recommended that the
Board of Directors increase the snow removal services’ contracts
for a total amount not to exceed $850,000.
Funding for Off-Duty Denver Police
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize execution of a 2007 purchase order for the
Denver Police Secondary Employment for $389,160.00. Funds for
the 2007 purchase order are in the 2007 adopted budget.
Recommendation Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended that the Financial/Administration Committee
support a modification to the District’s Investment Policy such
that the Policy would include, as Eligible Investments, all
investments permitted under Colorado Revised Statutes as
permitted investments for public funds (CRS 24-75-601.1).

.

Adoption of 2007 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial/Administrative Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the accompanying performance
measures, goals and objectives to be included in the 2007
Performance Report.


Recommended Action
Board Resolution 2 Series of 2007-Commitment to RTD Riders
This recommended action is discussed under II below.
Recommendation for Contract Award to Marsh USA for Insurance
Brokerage and Administrative Services
It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award to
Marsh, USA a 5 year contract with a 5 year option to provide
Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative
Services on a Rolling Owner Controlled Insurance Program

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 23, 2007 1:00
p.m. Page 4 of 5
(ROCIP).
May 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 6, 2007 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.
Note: A late development has occurred regarding Routes 410 and
P. It will be presented/discussed at the Operations Committee
meeting.
Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for
Design Engineering and Property Acquisition for Union Pacific
Facilities
It is recommended following the Executive Session from January
9, 2007, that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to enter into a contract with the Union Pacific Railroad
(UP) for 50% design and engineering on relocation of UP trackage
and yards and for UP property acquisition for its relocation, in an
amount not to exceed $40 million. Funding is included in the
FasTracks Program and 2007 FasTracks Budget.
II.

Board Resolution of Commitment to Riders
Director Brohl provided a draft of a Resolution of Commitment to RTD
riders which generated much discussion. Concerns were raised over
how does RTD let our customers know we care about their issues while
not subverting the tremendous effort and positive response of the RTD
staff and employees during the blizzards in December.
After hearing the issues and concerns, Director Brohl offered a revised
version of this Resolution which she will send to the Board for review
and comments. It was further requested by the Board Members that
RTD General Manager provide a “lessons learned review” to the Board at
a later Board session.

III.

Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure
located on the wall at the entryway to the RTD Administration office
located at 1600 Blake St as the location for posting of public notices
including Board and Committee meetings for 2007.
Members of the Executive Committee indicated they are in favor of
proceeding with the posting as noted.

IV.

RTD Champions of Transit Awards
General consensus was reached that this award will be presented to the
recipients at a venue where they can receive highest visibility. This will

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 23, 2007 1:00
p.m. Page 5 of 5
be followed up with an announcement at the next Board meeting of the
recipients of this award.
V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjournment – Hearing no objections, the meeting was adjourned at
2:05 p.m.

