Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
June 26, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Diane Borden – Senior Graphic Designer – 36 years
Raymond Speer – General Repair Certified Mechanic – 23 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of May 22, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
16th Street Mall Project; Consent to release Environmental Assessment and
authorization to enter into agreement(s) with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors:
1.

Authorize the General Manager or his Designee to consent to release the 16th
Street Mall Alternatives Analysis and Environmental Assessment for the minimum
30-day public review and comment period; and

2.

Authorize the General Manager or his Designee to negotiate and execute one or
more agreements with the City and County of Denver (CCD) concerning funding,
design, construction and maintenance of the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction
Project within the “Agreement Parameters” listed in the Discussion section of this
report.

This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals: Strategic Goal
#1 – Fiscal Sustainability and Strategic Goal #3 – State of Good Repair.
B.

August 2018 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 2018 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $1,924,000 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
The Recommended Action proposed falls in line with the following GM Goals.
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability
C.

Approval of Selection of Employee to RTD Salaried Trusts

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ appointing William Weidenaar to a
term expiring 12/31/2020 as a trustee for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e.,
Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability, and
Task Goal #2 – Workforce and Human Capital

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Approval of General Manager's 2019 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2019 as
amended in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.

E.

2018 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2018 to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2018 Amended Budget, to increase the appropriation by $28.6 million to
$1,329.0 million as detailed below in the Discussion section overview of the 2018
Amended Budget, and to decrease the appropriation of Capital Carryforward (previously
approved capital funds) by $103.8 million to $639.7 million.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability
F.
Ratify and Reaffirm the Execution of a Contract with Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs
The Executive Committee presents to the Board of Directors a motion to ratify and
reaffirm the General Manager’s execution of a contract for state legislative liaison/lobbyist
services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) that has been executed
pursuant to and consistent with the General Manager’s contract and with the delegations
of authority previously issued by the Board regarding the General Manager’s contracting
authority.
This recommended action is consistent with General Manager’s Core Goal #5 - Effective
Communications & Community Outreach.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

