Jun 26 2018 0530 PM Board of Directors Board
Meeting SD 480
DOUG TISDALE: Daylight time. I would respectfully request everyone in the room, please,
remember to silence your phones or put them on stun. I would also note, please, for the sake of
the record and for the benefit of the public to be informed, note that this meeting is being video
and audio recorded. It is part of our new system, and commencing with the month of June, we
have been formally recording both video and audio for these meetings.
We turn now to the second item on our agenda, which is the Pledge of Allegiance. And we regret
that a last minute circumstance took away the person we had ready to pledge, but I would ask
you all to rise and let us be led by a former Girl Scout, who in fact was a Girl Scout leader as
well. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would please follow the lead of Director Kate Williams.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for
which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. She's still got it.
[LAUGHTER]
All right. The next item on our agenda is for our Executive Manager of the Board, Ms. Barbara
McManus to please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Archuleta.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Good afternoon. I am present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Solano. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. It's now time for our safety briefing.
Please be aware that, at RTD, safety is our core value. And so we begin this meeting with a short
safety briefing. Please note, if we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, we will
ask our RTD General Counsel, Rolf Asphaug, to make that telephone call.
Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. If needed, an
automatic emergency defibrillator, an AED, device is in a glass case located just outside this
room on the wall to the right. In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other
emergency, please, we ask you to calmly exit out the door that you came in at the back of this

room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and then exit through the front
door.
Police and our security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. And anyone
needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as
necessary. Now, on a related safety note, please understand that, while RTD takes every
precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles and facilities, the agency relies on
both staff and the General public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity
on buses and trains and around stations, stops and platforms.
As such, we encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app.
Again, that's the Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous
activity and to communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in
the event of any emergency situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and
the Apple App Store. Thank you very much for that.
The next item on our agenda is to proceed with the retiree awards. And there are two retirees for
the month of June that will be recognized, one of whom has been able to join us this evening.
And I now ask Assistant General Manager Scott Reed to come forward to introduce Ms. Diane
Borden, who has been with us for 36 years. Mr. Reed.
SCOTT REED: Thank you. I am pleased, but also quite saddened to announce Diane's retirement
this evening. She is someone with whom I have had the pleasure of working for many, many
years. Actually, since the first minute that I got here 26 years ago myself. And I have tremendous
respect for her. She has done amazing things for the district. She has seen and been part of some
of the incredible achievements and changes that we've seen over the years.
And I can recall, literally, my first day at RTD when I started as a temporary employee, Diane
kind of took me aside and talked to me about some of the procedures and processes that we have
in place here. I was very green, I was very nervous starting my first day, and she really helped
me out. And I remember at that time thinking, that is so cool that she's been here 10 years. And
thinking myself, boy, I would really like to do this for 10 years. This is a cool place to work. I
really like what's going on.
And, you know, here now for me, 26 years later, and for Diane a total of 36, we have seen some
incredible changes. And with that, I do want to introduce her direct supervisor, our Manager of
Graphic Design, Cheryl Holmes, who will take it from here. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. Holmes.
CHERYL HOLMES: Kind of a lot shorter than Scott. Anyway. There is no stepping stool. Any
way. I just wanted to acknowledge Diane. Do you want to come up here? In marketing, Diane's
been the Senior Graphic Designer for as long as I've been here-- 17 years. But as long as pretty
much she's been here at RTD, I think it's a real interesting career of looking at Diane and how
creative she is and how hard it is to be creative every single day.

It is just a feat that, me being in the design industry, I cannot fathom. She's a master of design,
and I thought it was appropriate to put her little bit that I could put on this table over here of
designs that Diane has done throughout the years. We've won APTA grand prize awards with her
designs. She's been here since every rail opening. She's been through seven General Managers.
And she comes into work the most positive person and smiling every single day. You will be
missed, Diane. You Really will.
[APPLAUSE]
DIANE BORDEN: Well, I don't know what to say after all that except, thank you. It's been an
amazing time working here and I'm tearing up just thinking about it, but I'm just so thankful that
I got to work here all this time and do the thing I love to do the most, which is doing graphic
design. So I just work with an incredible team, the teamwork is what I'm really going to miss, all
the people I've worked with all these years in every department, in my department, every
division. It's just been an awesome time and I just thank you all for allowing me to be here and
have the privilege of doing this dream job for all this time. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That was a privilege to be able to honor Diane. And I
will tell you that the exhibit over there, if you have not had a chance yet to look at that, is most
impressive. And we appreciate it. For the sake of the record, I will note that Director Paul Solano
has joined us this evening. Prior to the conduct of any business, just in time. And I have a
question for staff. And that is, has our other retiree been able to join us this evening?
DAVE GENOVA: No. I don't believe so, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you, Mr. General Manager. In that case, we would all like
now to take a second to acknowledge and recognize Raymond Spear. Raymond Spear is a
General Repair Certified Mechanic, and we recognize him for his 23 years of distinguished
service to RTD. Please give it up for Raymond Spear.
[APPLAUSE]
The next item on our agenda is to turn to the public participation period. And this is that time
where it is open to anyone who wants to speak to the Board to be able to do so as is our custom.
We will allow any of our elected officials present to speak first so that they can get back to their
own meetings and attend to business. If you have signed up to speak, and I have the sign up sheet
before me, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up. If you have not signed up
and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the list and we will take
those additional speakers at that time.

Each speaker is allowed three minutes. Let me repeat that. Three minutes. We respectfully
request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a
speaker's comments as such outburst might reasonably have the effect of chilling the free
expression of thoughts by speakers. And please also bear in mind that appearing at the
microphone constitutes your consent to being video and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our
meetings are recorded and are made available on the RTD website.
So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing.
Please come to the lectern when called and state your name and address. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Board, please give those materials to the Board staff
prior to speaking. With that, we will turn to the first member of the public who has signed up and
this is Mr. Charles Riebe. It's Riebe or Reebe. I apologize if I have mispronounced-- to speak on
the budget. And sir, if you would give us your name and your address, and you have three
minutes.
MR. RIEBE: Thank you. I got all excited when I saw that retiree awards since I am one, I though
I might get one. My name is Charles Riebe. I live 77 West Grand Ranch Boulevard in Denver.
I'm retired. I owned and operated an engineering firm that did construction management
administration. At one time, I worked with a fellow that you might remember, his name was
Dick Bowman. And we worked together on some operations, research things which involved
looking into organizations and analyzing budgets and things like that.
But now I'm just a taxpayer, but I'm interested in how the money is spent and also the RTD. I
used RTD to get here tonight and I'll use it to get home. That light rail works good, but it's riding
kind of rough. I'm getting kind of afraid it might jump the track.
I worked at the RTDs-- I looked at the budget, 2018 budget, and I was struck by the amount of
money for the communication department. There's $17 million dollars-- and I looked through the
budget. There is 149 employees with about 21 middle management people. And I noticed that in
that budget just has an analytic that there's approximately $600,000 in vacant positions.
Given that your mission is transportation, getting people from one point to the other, and as your
goals state, to run an efficient economical operation-- cost effective, I believe is the word used-- I
would ask you to consider at least that moving that-- not spending that $600,000 for vacant
positions, but use it for other matters that are important to the public's transportation, such as bus
drivers and other items that may be short. So with that, I thank you for your time and
consideration.
And at one time I did a little work for RTD as a consultant. So you guys have good evening and
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Riebe. We appreciate your taking the time to
address us. The second speaker on our list is Mr. David Williams. Mr. Williams, if you would
please come forward, give your name and address, and you have three minutes, sir.

DAVID WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. I am David K. Williams, because David Williams
is almost as common as John Smith, so I use that middle initial to separate myself. I do live at
3145 South Beeler Street in Denver. And like Mr. Riebe, I did take light rail to get here this
evening. So I appreciate the work you guys do.
I will not repeat a lot of what Mr. Riebe said because I am in concurrence with his statements in
general. I have looked at last week's discussion about the budget and about those three salaried
public relations positions that are currently vacant that total $577,000 a year in salary. I guess I
would just like to point out that approving responsible spending is what this Board should be
doing. And I think ya'll generally do a good job and I want you to continue doing that.
So as you vote on the amended budget tonight, I'd just like to know that there are RTD Board
members who represent the taxpayers versus stacking more excessive public relations positions
to the department that already has plenty of staff. My understanding is that RTD has not
conducted an independent salary comparison despite it being recommended in 2015. And I just
suggest that responsible public agencies would do that on a regular basis.
It's my understanding that RTD salaried positions, including their benefits plans, their salary
pension plans, is excellent and way over what one might be able to find in the public sector. So
the salaries are excessive, I believe. If any of you looked at those job reports. And I hope you
would then vote based on that information. Vote no on tonight's budget. I do want to specifically
thank the Directors who voted this way last time-- Directors Folska. I'm in your district. I work
from Southmoor, Director Folska. Director Lubow, Mihalik and Menten for voting no last week,
representing the taxpayers of this District versus status quo rubber stamping of what we usually
see in government. So I thank you very much, and I wish you all the best. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your time, Mr. Williams. We appreciate that. The
next speaker on the list, number three, is Ms. Leslie Foster from The Gathering Place. Leslie,
would you please come forward? Give us your name and address.
LESLIE FOSTER: My name is Leslie Foster. My address is 123 East Bayaud Avenue Denver,
Colorado. I'm here tonight speaking on behalf of two organizations-- The Gathering Place, which
is a nonprofit organization serving women, children, families, and people who are transgender
and who are experiencing poverty, and the Denver Women's Collaborative where we are a
member of a group of nine nonprofit organizations. Collectively Collaborative provides a
continuum of services that reaches over 20,000 women, girls and their families each year.
Both organizations have been following the working pass group for some time now. Both
organizations have a strong interest in seeing that the recommendations of the working pass
committee are eventually passed by the RTD Board of Directors. Tonight, I would like to remind
you that literally thousands of people in Denver are left out of economic prosperity and are
struggling with finding ways of rebuilding their lives. Transportation is one of the most
important services necessary for assisting those we serve.
I've worked with The Gathering Place for nearly 29 years. And in that time we've conducted
various surveys to assess the needs of the people we serve. Every single year, transportation

comes up as a critical barrier to getting into shelter and housing, to finding and keeping a job and
to manage family life, including getting children to and from school and getting families to and
from church, grocery stores, and medical appointments.
[INAUDIBLE] is important to those we serve as affordable and accessible transportation, and
when someone does have access their lives improve dramatically. We believe that the
recommendation of the working pass group was thoughtful and considered. We have learned that
their proposal is revenue neutral, therefore we cannot fathom why passing the recommendation is
even controversial. It meets the needs of a huge constituency of RTD ridership, it meets the
stated RTD mission of providing transportation to all and it is revenue neutral.
For those on the lowest end of the population and the socioeconomic status, the only option for
support for transportation is to obtain support from nonprofits. Therefore, the low-income pass
group program is particularly important. The reduced fair discount program proposed by the
working group is the only access that they have to accessible transportation. Thank you for your
consideration and support. Our organizations, our staff, our countless volunteers and supporters
and, of course, the people we serve urge you to support the recommendations of the working
pass group. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Foster. We appreciate your comments. The next
speaker on the list is Ms. Jenee Donelson from 9 to 5 also speaking on the pass program working
group. Again, if you would give us your name and address. And you have three minutes. Thank
you.
MS. JENEE DONELSON: My name is Jenee Donelson. My address is 5535 East Yale Avenue
of District K, I believe. I am here on behalf of the Rocky Mountain Bus Riders Union and 9 to 5.
Rocky Mountain Bus Riders Union is a union of drivers and riders that are working to get
economic justice through their transit system. I am here to-- echo --talk without a microphone
too.
I'm here to echo [INAUDIBLE] of the-- sorry, it just keeps on-- of The Gathering Place, echoing
the sentiments of my-- not constituents, but my member group, that we need an income based
bus pass, that we desperately need a youth pass, that the recommendations that the pass program
working group were able to present to you are more than enough of a reason to be able to
advocate and to provide these for your constituents and also for the people who are ultimately
paying for this transit system.
If 70% of your overall revenue comes from state sales tax and the other percentages come from
the farebox, then this is a public transit system. And if you are not providing the adequate or an
affordable transit system, or if you're not providing a transit system that does not go through
certain neighborhoods or does not provide certain stops or is continuously, like, discontinuing all
of your routes and stops, then you are no longer providing for your constituents and you are no
longer becoming-- or no longer a public transit system.
You are becoming a corporation, and that is a huge problem, especially when you are
consistently taking people's money. Please, please consider the pass program working group's

recommendations very seriously. Because if you are not, then you are really teetering on a
situation that is not equitable. This is not an equitable transit system. Please provide an equitable
transit system by your constituents. Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your comments. We appreciate that. The next
speaker on the list is Chris Diehn. Speaking on fare increases. Mr. Diehn, if you recognize,
please give us your name and address, and you have three minutes.
CHRISTOPHER DIEHN: Hi there. My name is Christopher Diehn. I live at 1685 Cook Street. I
echo the sentiments of the previous two speakers. I urge the Board to not increase fares in the
coming years for the working class and those unable to work in our community. Access to public
transportation is extraordinarily important. Accessing transportation means that people can get to
jobs and satisfy work requirements for public programs. It means that they can get to doctors and
see the doctor when otherwise they might not be able to.
So when services are cut to low income neighborhoods, when fares are increased, this directly
impacts everybody in those neighborhoods and it contributes to inequity in housing, economic
inequity, health care inequity and a whole host of other things. So I also urge the Board to-- and
the staff and any legislators who are here to find new funding mechanisms for RTD. Putting the
burden of running the system on the people who ride it is obviously wrong.
We have the ability to fully fund all of our public programs. This should be a free service. It
shouldn't cost a cent to anybody. Nobody should need to reach into their pocket to ride the bus to
get to the doctor. I urge you to end the privatization, reverse the privatization of RTD services.
The profit motivation of private corporations is completely incompatible with the needs of the
public. And again, when service changes are considered, service to those communities that need
it most should be the last thing to be cut, not the first. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Diehn. We appreciate your comments. That's the
end of the list of speakers. Are there any speakers who did not sign up who would wish to speak
at this time? If so, if you would please come forward, give us your name and your address and
you will have three minutes. Thank you.
DAYA ZAVALA: Thank you. Hi, everyone. My name is Daya Zavala. I am at 8079 Wolff
Street in Westminster, Colorado. I am a representative of Mile High Connects. We are a regional
collaborative that's been working very diligently on the affordable care issue alongside many
members from the RTD staff and RTD Board. I wanted to thank a few members of the Board
that have been meeting with Mile High Connect and some of our representatives as we continue
to think through how the pass program working group's recommendation might end up shaking
out in the long run.
We understand that as elected public officials it's your duty to conduct your due diligence upon
the recommendation of the pass program working group. We wish to state our continued
commitment to serving as partners with you all and thinking about how the implementation may
take place. We also see that as a package the pass program working group's recommendation is

revenue neutral, but if we can continue to serve, again, when we start to think about
implementation administration, we'd be happy to do so.
The other thing that I just wanted to point out is that, as a collaborative with members from the
philanthropic world, from financial institutions as well as nonprofit organizations, we bring a
pretty diverse voice to this table. As you all move into the public comment period for the
recommendations of the pass program working group, we encourage you to look to us. We have
several partners, including Mi Casa, First Bank and Wells Fargo in addition to others that I think
would be more than willing to either host a convening or at least help to spread that word that
you are hearing from a diverse group of folks.
Again, we encourage you to continue looking to Mile High Connects and our partners as a
resource to you all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the comments. We appreciate that. Any other
speakers who would like to address the Board at this time who have not signed up? Hearing
none, we will close our public participation period. And we move on to information regarding
our committee reports. Now, as noted previously, beginning this month, all official meetings of
the RTD Board of Directors-- and that's whether the full Board or meeting as a committee or
meeting for any other purpose-- all of those meetings are now video and audio recorded.
This recording capacity allows us to post the draft meeting minutes for public consumption more
quickly. And we do that along with the closed captioned videos and also with full transcripts of
those meetings via the Board's web site. And I point that out for the simple reason that when you
look at the minutes that are being approved, you have the opportunity, the advantage, of being
able to see the entire proceeding of any meeting by the simple expedient of going to our web site.
The committee meeting minutes, ladies and gentlemen of the Board, were included in the Board
packet. Are there any questions as to any of those minutes from any Director? Seeing none. If
not, then those committee reports will stand as submitted and they will now become a part of our
permanent record for this Board as to each of the committees that is listed. Next, I turn to the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management update. And to that end, I recognize
what we call the GMOC Committee Chair, Chair Walker.
Would you have any comments regarding the GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee to share with us at this time.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Just a couple of brief updates. The GMOC met today and we went
over the General Manager's mid-year self-assessment that was included in the package that went
out last week. Also, the Survey Monkey for the mid-year survey-- that's the part that we have to
fill out. That was sent out last week also. The survey will be available until July 9. And we can
use those two documents in tandem-- so we can use the mid-year self-assessment to help inform
as we complete the Survey Monkey. And that is all I have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any questions of the GMOC Chair Walker?
Seeing none, let us turn then to the next item on our agenda, which is a motion to approve the

minutes from the regular Board Meeting of May 22nd, 2018. You will note that we previously
did by assent the approval of the minutes from the committee meetings. The full Board Meeting
requires a formal vote. So may I please have a motion to approve the minutes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: hear a move? OK. I heard the second. Who was the motion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Archuleta.
DOUG TISDALE: Archuleta. Great. So Director Archuleta has the movant and Director
Deadwyler has the second. Is there any discussion on that motion. Hearing none, if you would
please have the vote in the electronic Board room at this time. And Director Archuleta as the
moveant and Director Deadwyler as the second. And it would appear that we have had every one
vote. And we have 15 votes in favor, no votes against the minutes as submitted stand approved.
Thank you very much.
Let me turn now to the Chair's Report. Quite a bit of action has been going on with the RTD
lately and our General Manager Genova will have some to share with you as well. And I think
it's all very exciting. At the beginning of this month, General Manager Genova and I, along with
many other local business leaders and elected officials and key figures in municipal government
participated in the Urban Exploration trip to Los Angeles, which was organized by the
Downtown Denver Partnership in order to explore and study best practices regarding many
important issues that impact directly economic development and transportation.
It was a most productive trip. Other Board members have participated in very important
conferences during the month of June. For example, Director Folska has recently returned from
Washington DC, where she served as a contributing member of the Accelerate Colorado
delegation for their very significant work. And we thank Director Folska for her contribution to
that. And last week, Director Solano participated in and was his usual strong presence at the
Colorado Municipal League annual conference in Vail, a gathering of all of the cities and towns
in the state of Colorado.
APTA's inter-- and that's the American Public Transportation Association. APTA's International
Rail Rodeo and Rail conference were held in Denver earlier this month, and a number of
Directors, including Williams, Menten, Walker, Solano, Anderson, Catlin and others, together
with members of the RTD staff participated in this phenomenal event. I'm sure the General
Manager Genova will have a little more to say about these events later on, but I want you to
know that RTD has received rave reviews from all of the transit agencies who participated in this
from Japan, from India, from France, from Belgium, from the United Kingdom, from Canada
and from the United States relative to our hosting of this event.
On Monday, June 11, our Civil Rights Senior Manager Zamy Silva, Director Solano, Director
Walker, General Manager Genova and I participated in a small business to small business
networking reception that was hosted by RTD and COMTO, the Committee of Minority Transit
Operators. On Saturday, June 16, Director Deadwyler and several RTD employees hosted a

booth at the annual Juneteenth celebration held in the historic Five Points neighborhood here in
Denver. Feel free to ask Director Deadwyler to share with you the most entertaining video that
she took at that event. That was terrific.
Directors Menten-- I'm sorry, on June 20, General Manager Genova and I attended a University
of Michigan presentation by the Taubman School of Architecture and Urban Planning on
elements of urban development and transportation equity issues. Directors Menten and
Deadwyler addressed a meeting at a Park Hill Village neighborhood last week, and they were
joined by senior members of staff, Denver city council person Chris Herndon and DTO, that's
Denver Transit Operators General Manager, Anne Hertzenberg. That meeting was both well
attended and well received. And the residents were very appreciative of the outreach effort.
And the sixth annual Smart Commute Transforum Luncheon was held at the Panasonic
Innovation facility in Denver at the airport on Friday, June 22. And Directors Hoy, Lubow and
Williams attended that luncheon. The Multi-Agency Exchange Program-- that's sometimes
referred to as the MAX program is in Denver this week. The program is a collaborative effort to
share technical information and career skills expertise among public transportation personnel.
Participating agencies in the MAX program include the RTD, the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, referred to as LA Metro, the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid
Transit Authority, referred to us MARTA, and the Dallas Area Rapid Transit Authority, referred
to as DART.
The Chair will speak at that event and all Directors are cordially invited to attend and participate
in the MAX program. Next, there will be a Mobility Choice Blueprint Initiative meeting
tomorrow, Wednesday, June 27 at the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce located at 1445
Market Street in the afternoon. And don't forget that tomorrow is also bike to work day. If at all
possible, ride your bike to work and join RTD at either the Civic Center Park or at Union Station
between 6:30 AM and 9:00 AM to pick up a bite to eat and some great bike gear. And I know the
Denver Transit Operators was out there last year for bike to work day, and I'm glad to see they'll
participate again.
Rumor has it that you can score the bike gear even if you take the light rail and don't actually
ride a bike. So think about that. Please note, finally, that the RTD Administrative Offices will be
closed on Wednesday, July the 4th in observance of Independence Day. And we at RTD wish
everyone a safe and pleasant Independence holiday. I have concluded the Chair's Report. I would
now invite the General Manager to give us his monthly report in which he may share with us
some excellent news about the recent progress on our commuter rail lines and particularly, as
you know, the removal of grade crossing attendants along the University of Colorado A Line and
other information. Mr. General Manager Genova, would you please grace us with your report
now, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. For the sake of brevity, I won't cover some of the
things that the Chair covered so well, including the APTA activities at the conference and the
International Rail Rodeo, other than our transportation team did take second place overall, which
is an incredible feat. So congratulations to them. And then just thanks to the many people at RTD

that worked very hard to make that event as successful as it was. As the Chair stated, we
continue to get a lot of great feedback on the conference. So were happy to have that here.
During the conference I, of course, had many meetings. Lots of staff members presented on
many panels, Chairs of committees and participating in committees. So very active and very
engaged. I think one of the really great things I was able to have a meeting with the new Federal
Railroad Administration Administrator, Ronald Batory. And we basically had a very good
exchange in which I was able to give him a full briefing on where we are with the University of
Colorado A Line and the G Line towards the open items that we have working towards final
approvals on the crossings on the A Line towards quiet zones and, of course, toward the opening
of the G Line.
So great conversation with him. He asked me to follow up with an email. I sent him a listing of
all of our open items. He is working now with his team to get as much of an update as he
possibly can. We're hoping to schedule a meeting a little bit later in the month of July in
Washington DC with the Administrator and with his staff. And in fact, he e-mailed me just this
morning to assure me he's still engaged and working towards the things we need to do on those
open items. And I'll step right into those.
So as the Chair mentioned, very good news on the University of A Line grade crossings-- all of
the grade crossings, all 11, on the University of Colorado A Line have been through the final
verification testing from the public utilities staff commission or the Public Utilities Commission
staff. What that means is that the staff has gone out and verified that all the crossings are
functioning exactly within the parameters that the commission approved a number of months
ago. This is a huge milestone as all of the crossings have been filed for at the Public Utilities
Commission.
So where we are specifically, we have six crossings that no longer have grade crossing
attendants. And those are Clayton, Still, Holly, Dahlia, Havana and Chambers. Monaco and
Sable on Wednesday at 6 PM, the attendance will be removed from those two crossings. And
then on Monday of next week, again, around 6:00 PM, the York and Josephine and the Ulster
crossings-- the grade crossing attendants will be removed from those crossings. That leaves us
with one single crossing left, and that's the crossing at Quebec.
We recently had a civil amendment approved by the commission. And then the commission staff
has been out and inspected that crossing and filed the final paperwork as we have as well. We
expect that that will be-- that crossing will be on the commission docket on July 11. Since they
typically meet on Wednesday's, the next opportunity for that would be July 4. We're told that
there's a possibility it may happen on Tuesday, July 3, but July 11 for sure. Then once the
Commission gives the nod there, then we need the go ahead from the FRA, and that will be the
last crossing for us to remove our grade crossing attendants. So huge milestone getting through
that and that complete process and then going through the field verification testing, meaning that
all the crossings, the conventional timing and the wireless crossings are working within the
parameters of our approved times in front of the commission.

Our next step on the University of Colorado A Line is to obtain the quiet zones. So we have
filed-- long ago we filed our notice of intent that addressed the technology and what we were
doing at the crossings to meet the quiet zone requirements. The next step would be to file the
notice of establishment that actually is done by the municipalities. So we're very close to taking
that step. We're in final communication right now with the FRA on a few things related to
constant warning time. Our team is busy at work with the FRA. We're hoping to get some
additional information from them this week.
It may be-- this hasn't been final yet, but we may have to apply for a waiver before we can take
that step to file our notice of establishment, but we're working closely with all of our teams to do
that. But we are working diligently as best we can to get those quiet zones in place. On the G
Line, the update there is we have had several requests in front of the Federal Railroad
Administration to keep that project moving ahead. We are out there, as the Board knows, with a
couple of tests trains every day. We have a request in front of the Federal Railroad
Administration now to allow us to use multiple trains during testing out on the G Line. Right
now, we're limited to two.
And that has been approved by the staff, and now will be going in front of the FRA Safety
Board. So hopefully, late this week or early next week we'll have many more trains out there to
be able to really test the system, stress the system, put it under a simulated schedule environment
and really be able to get in there and make all the adjustments we need on the grade crossing
timing to keep that moving. Once we get that approval and we get some-- assuming we get some
good data over about a one week period of time or so, then we will request from the Federal
Railroad Administration for us to enter into our system demonstration, which would be running
our full regular schedule, which would, again, would be part of our contract requirement for a
number of days to run the schedule according to certain parameters.
And then I should have mentioned, also, once we get the multiple trains out, the PUC staff will
go out and do the wireless grade crossing timing verification, and that's the final piece that the
Public Utilities Commission needs to do. They've done their civil verification on the crossings
and they've been through the conventional system timings, and those are all acceptable. Once we
get the multiple trains out, assuming we get some good data for about a week, we'll make that
request to go into a demonstration. And then, again about another week's worth of data assuming
it goes well and the data is looking good, we will submit the request to enter revenue service.
And then what that would trigger then is if it's acceptable, the data is acceptable, everything's
working well, then that would trigger our request to the Federal Railroad Administration to
amend the existing long term waiver on the University of Colorado A Line and the B Line to
then include the G Line, and we would open the G Line. Now, all that said, we don't have a
schedule attached to that. I know everyone is eager to know the opening date. We're working as
hard as we possibly can with the regulatory bodies and with Denver Transit Partners and DTO to
get through all of these final requirements.
So that kind of wraps up the A Line, the G Line, the quiet zones. I have a couple other items I
did want to mention to you. Not next week-- in July, I believe that July 10 is our next committee
meeting with the Operations Committee. We'll be bringing forward to you the comprehensive

communications plan around the G Line opening, so I don't know if we'll have a date by then,
but we will be able to bring forward to you the whole outreach plan and all the materials that our
marketing communications group has presented. So we'll be presenting that at the OPS
committee regarding the G Line on July 10.
Depending on how heavy that agenda is, we may also bring forward to you where we are with
the outreach plan regarding the R Line in Aurora and a ridership update for that line as well. The
Chair did mention MAX. I will clarify one or two things. The program actually expanded this
year and includes two more agencies. And those two agencies are Valley Metro out of Phoenix
and Sound Transit in Seattle. And so now, since the program's up to six, we've kind of reshuffled
a little bit. And so the participants in our pod are Denver RTD, Atlanta, Atlanta Rapid Transit,
and then Phoenix. So that's the group that's here this week with us is Phoenix and Atlanta. And
then the other pod is Los Angeles, Seattle and Dallas.
And then the other thing I'll mention-- I think many of the Board members saw some of the
coverage on the DOT Girls in Transportation. That's a DOT program, and I often ask-- you
know, I refer to them as young women, but that's the official name of the program-- is Girls in
Transportation. We had a very great group here yesterday. They were very engaged. Some great
questions. They got a lot of information about RTD and what RTD is about, and especially a lot
a lot of discussion about transportation jobs and opportunities in our industry. And Mr. Chair,
that concludes my report. I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. We appreciate that. Anyone
who wishes to ask questions, please put yourself in the queue and we will begin with Vice-Chair
Menten, you're recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. At the outreach meeting that we had at the Park Hill
neighborhood there were some questions about whether Denver was fully aware and completely
satisfied with their role now in taking-- moving it forward to get the quiet zones. But is Denver
all good? Because there was a moment where we weren't quite sure what somebody in the
audience had brought forward and we had councilman Herndon there and he really didn't
comment either way. So is Denver all good?
DAVE GENOVA: Director Menten, Denver is good. In fact, Henry says they're ready to file that
notice of establishment once we get through these final few details with the FRA and particularly
that decision point about whether we need a waiver or not. So they're ready to go.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you, that's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Vice-Chair. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just wanted to give a shout-out to-- I happened to have somebody present
me today with a copy of Westward. And right smack dab in the middle of it is a very cool
display on what you can do this summer with the R Line. And if you haven't seen it, you should
go and look at it. There's cool activities in it and it's very well done, so I wanted to thank you all
for that.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. We appreciate that. Chair Sisk,
you are recognized.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. This actually goes to some comments about the
Pledge of Allegiance and comments that I heard at social gathering. And I just wanted to share
this, because I know Chair Tisdale initiated this wonderful idea. But the mother came up to me
and she said, I'm really sorry that my son was unable to come to the RTD the night they
presented the Pledge of-- presented the colors. She said, we had so many things going on, soccer
games, anyway. But she said, it was such a nice thing for RTD to have done, and I suggested to
her that that was certainly Chair Tisdale's idea. But it was nice to go to a social gathering and
hear something like that.
And that, by the way, was before we had had two or three Martinis. But anyway-- no. But I
really think when people do good things, they should be recognized. So it's a great idea. Thank
you, Doug, for your ideas.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Sisk. I appreciate that. Chair Anderson, you're
recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, I am looking forward to all
of the communication that should take place at the opening of the G Line and how RTD
communicates with all of their people. And so I'm happy that we have a good budget for
communication. So I'm looking forward, as my citizens are, to learning more about their
opportunities and all of the new changes that will happen to bus service as it moves in to support
the rail lines. So I do appreciate all that RTD does in communicating with the public. Thank you.
GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for Chair Anderson. We appreciate that. Any other
questions or comments for the General Manager? If not, then we turn to the next item on our
agenda, which is the unanimous consent agenda. We have three items on the unanimous consent
agenda tonight, which are, first of all, the 16th Street Mall project. That's a consent to release the
environmental assessment and authorization to enter into agreements with the city and county of
Denver regarding the 16th Street Mall. Secondly, the approval of the August 2018 Service
Changes that have previously been submitted to this Board and reviewed. And then thirdly, the
approval of the selection of employee-- of an employee to the RTD Salaried Trust. All of the
materials are, of course, contained in your Board packet.
If anyone has a change to or any questions on any one or more of these items, please feel free to
advise the Chair at this time and we will, of course, be happy to pull that particular item from the
unanimous consent agenda for discussion under our recommended action agenda. Are there any
takers relative to the unanimous consent agenda for any removal of any items. Going once, going
twice. Are you all done? All in. Then the unanimous consent agenda will stand as is. May I have
a motion now to approve? I have a motion from Director Williams, and there is a second from
Director Broom.

Is there any discussion on the unanimous consent agenda approval motion? Hearing none, if we
could now proceed to the vote. It is Director Williams as the moveant, Director Broom as the
second. And please proceed with your vote after Directors Williams and Broom have voted. And
they have. And ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous consent agenda has passed fittingly
unanimously, 15 to nothing. And so each of those three items are approved.
We now move to the recommended action items. And there are three recommended actions on
the agenda tonight. They are noted in your agenda as agenda items Roman 12, actions D through
F. The first of these is 12D. That's the approval of the General Manager's 2019 goals. It is
recommended by the General Manager oversight and Performance Management Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the General Manager's goals for 2019 as amended in the attached
General Manager's performance evaluation document.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Move approval.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: : Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Chair Anderson, I have a second from the Second ViceChair Deadwyler. Is there any discussion on the motion to approve the General Manager's 2019
goals? I see Director Williams is in the queue. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm confused because I have information that we are all
voting on on a Survey Monkey that is related to the General Manager Oversight Committee, so I
am confused as to how I'm supposed to approve this now, but then look at this survey. And I
don't see how those work hand-in-hand. Can-BARBARA DEADWYLER: Last year, next year, this year [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: If it's all right with Director Williams, what I'm going to do is I will first
invite the Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee Jeff Walker to
respond to that question, and then we can proceed with any other comments. But Director
Walker, if you would please respond to Director Williams' question.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. The Survey Monkey is for the current year's performance. The
goals that are before us in this motion are for next year's tasks and goals and tactical plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for asking. We often have to take a pause and explain
to people that, while we're doing something in 2018, we are also planning and taking steps to
prepare for things to be done the next year, 2019. And that's part of the confusion. All right,
Vice-Chair Menten, you are recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would like to speak to confirm whether all of the changes-- I had
four changes from the last meeting in which at least two of those we had, I thought, agreed on to
make changes. And I'm going to have to rely on the members that were there. But specifically,
under item five for the core communications goal, which I am not seeing in core goal five here,
which would have been a semi-annual meeting, including the General Manager and the SLT.
And I mention those things specifically, going out to the public semiannually. And I thought we
had agreed that that measure was to be included in here.
DOUG TISDALE: Under the plan that was [INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, under-exceeded for communication. So I'm going to have to rely on
my fellow Board Directors.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. And in fact, if you would look at-- happily, I have a hard copy of the
packet with me. Packet page 19 for the-- and this was the Executive Committee Meeting packet,
which included the Board Meeting packet as part of it. The addition to exceeded expectations
was added to that. So as the Chair reads it, I believe that is included, but I will defer to the Chair
of the GMOC for a specific comment.
JEFF WALKER: To be clear, we're talking about, or you're referencing, core goal number five,
effective communications and community outreach?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
[INAUDIBLE]
JEFF WALKER: Right. What I see is General Manager so I'll read from the document in front of
me. General Manager and communications conducts two or more briefings to the public. Such
briefings to occur at varied times and days. For example, weekdays, evening and Saturday day
time, paren, briefings could be community updates and GM telephone town halls, end paren. Is
that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: You are correct if you're reading from the paper. It is not on my-- I don't
think I'm missing it.
JEFF WALKER: I am looking-- so the column to the left under agenda. I'm looking at column-at item 12DB, like boy.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, I believe that General Manager Genova might be able to respond to
this and hopefully provide some clarity. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. There's two memos in the packet. So there's the one-- I
believe the earlier date one is the memo that we reviewed at the last committee meeting. That has
a date of June 13th. And then there's a second memo that is dated June 20th, and that has all of
the revisions that we discussed at the last meeting. And so it's just a matter of having to get
through and look at that second memo.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I had highlighted the 6/13/18 on this agenda, and so now I am
cleared on that. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Mr. Genova-- we appreciate that. In light of that,
Director Walker do you need to be recognized at this time? You're in the queue. Gone. OK. And
Director Menten has concluded. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm wondering, General Manager Genova, if
you could kindly let me know if-- in the past, we've had operating reserves, like three months,
six months. I have this feeling we don't have that anymore. Is that accurate?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, in regard to-- we don't really address that and these specific goals that
came out of the committee. I could have, even though it's not really related, I could ask the CFO
to report on that, but I don't know if it's appropriate at this time. I guess I would defer to the
Chair.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, if I may, actually, it would be-- if it's not, I would like to see that a
goal. I know that I'm not part of the committee, but as a whole body, I think that making sure that
we have sufficient reserves to operate this agency for three to six months is appropriate. So
maybe that could fall and exceed something in a different category, but I would hope for that to
be added. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. As I understand, the request, it is
that-- and perhaps it might easily be handled by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Committee reviewing at its next meeting the General Manager's goals as approved, and look for
whether, A, there is a standard in there currently for three to six months of reserves, or B, if not,
whether one should be recommended and that could come back to the full Board for
consideration.
And Director Walker, you're recognized to weigh in on that.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So these goals are what we set at our retreat in advance in March.
That's when the goals were established. Tactical plan is what we're discussing now. But if I'm
correct, if my memory serves me correct, the 90 day operations funds for 90 days of operation,
that's Board policy that was set, I believe, by the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force back in early
2011. I think that was before I was on the Board. So I think we do have that captured, just not in
this body, but I think that there is a standing policy of this Board.
DOUG TISDALE: And, if I may then, perhaps to speak cogently on this someone who is
experienced in the area and knows about it, let us recognize our Chief Financial Officer,
Assistant General Manager Heather McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So just to clarify, it is in the Board's Fiscal Policy that you adopt each
year that says that we will strive to reach 90 days of operating reserve both in FasTracks and the
Base System. We have never been at that point. We hope to get there. We show it in the plan in
the out years. It is not in the next six years. And the mid-year financial plan long range plan

probably will not show us achieving that in the next six years, at least in the combined base and
FasTracks without significantly delaying other projects, but it is in your current fiscal policy.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And I think just to address a
misstatement that the Chair made, I believe I might have said that the request by Director Folska
was to add this to be considered as a goal. I think accurately what Director Folska was
addressing, as I recall it now, is that it be added to one of the qualifiers, perhaps as she said, if
you hit that, you have exceeded expectations. And that would be one that would qualify as an
exceeded expectations. And I think based upon Chief Financial Officer McKillop's comments,
clearly that would exceed expectations, because it ain't in the budget at the present time.
With that said, Director Folska, have I correctly captured your sentiment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Somewhat, yes. So if I could say, Heather, could you kindly tell me how-we have zero money in reserves? Is that what you're saying? For operations.
DOUG TISDALE: Chief Financial Officer McKillop, you're recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. That's not a true statement. We have, I believe, about 60 days
probably in reserve over the next couple of years. Right now we probably have about 30 days in
the Base System and about 60 plus days in the FasTracks. But we don't achieve the 90 days in
both the combined FasTracks and Base System at this time.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So with that being said, I think that it is an important goal. And if
you could add that, I think it'd be very appropriate. So we have the policy, now we need to
implement it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. I appreciate that and I think that Director
Walker and the GMOC will be happy to address that. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I was just going to point out that the Supreme Court just ruled
on internet sales. And that should provide the District with additional funding in coming years,
and perhaps those funds could be directed to increase those reserves as being the first priority for
them. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. A sage observation, and we are all so delighted about
the Supreme Court's result. Any further discussion relative to the approval of the as revised
General Manager's 2019 goals? Hearing none and seeing none, we are ready for a vote. I have
Director Anderson as the moveant and Director Deadwyler as the seconder. If they would please
vote. The rest of you vote. We can cast our tally now. And thank you very much. Ladies and
gentlemen, that motion has passed unanimously by a vote of 15 to none. Those stand approved at
this time.
We turn then to agenda 12E, and that's the 2018 amended budget. It is recommended-- and this is
going to be in a couple of parts, I have to point out, because there is a procedural requirement for
a public hearing after we get the motion on the floor. So we're just going to get the motion on the

floor, then we have to proceed with the exercise of a public hearing, which the Chair will initiate
after we receive the motion.
So the recommended action is, it is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution number blank-- to be determined-- series
of 2018 to amend and appropriate funds for the proposed 2018 amended budget to increase the
appropriation by $28.6 million to $1,329,000 as detailed below in the discussion section
overview of the 2018 amended budget as has been previously submitted to this Board. And to
decrease the appropriation of capital carry forward that's previously approved capital funds by
$103.8 million to the amount of $639.7 million in partial satisfaction of General Manager goals
core goal number three, strong financial management and task goal number one, fiscal
sustainability. May I have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
I have a motion from Chair Sisk. And I heard a second from Chair Anderson. So I have a
moveant and second on that. And let me now, for the sake of the record, advise that, ladies and
gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to order a public hearing on the Regional Transportation
District's motion to amend the adopted budget for the year 2018. Now, in accordance with both
RTD's requirements and local governmental statutes, particularly the requirements of applicable
law in other words, notice of the public hearing was duly posted in the office of the Executive
Manager to the Board of Directors.
Persons who have not already indicated a desire to speak at the hearing should register by a show
of hands when I call for that in a moment. This public hearing will be conducted under rules and
regulations for public hearings adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation
District and a copy of those rules will be made a permanent part of the record of this hearing.
The Chair would like to point out that testimony on this will be limited to the subject of the
public hearing that specifically relates to the proposed amended budget. And presentations of
testimony should be, as we have done in the past, no longer than three minutes.
Any written testimony should be presented to Ms. Barbara McManus, the Executive Manager, to
the Board of Directors for distribution to the Board. There is a copy of the amendment to the
2018 adopted budget before each Board member here tonight pursuant to their electronic Board
packets. And copies are available in the Board Office upon request. No one has previously
submitted to the Chair a request to speak in this public hearing. And we will now ask for any
show of hands relative to someone who wishes to speak to the amended budget, that is a motion
to amend the adopted 2018 budget.
Is there anyone in the public who wishes to raise their hand and to make such a statement at this
time? Going once, going twice. No one has indicated a desire to proceed with the public hearing.
So at 6:43 PM I will close the public hearing that was opened at approximately 6:41 PM this
evening. We'll proceed to discussion on the main motion, which is the motion to adopt the
amended 2018 budget. Director Menten, did you wish to--

NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'm just wondering the point of order, I guess, we would call. We
had two people who signed up on the public comment page out there and they spoke to the
budget. So would they rightly be noted under this section? That's my question. Doesn't really
matter, but I'm just bringing it up, as I know our budget is also submitted to, I think, some other
agencies, including DOLA, and that should be maybe a matter of that record also.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent point of order, and the Chair will note for the sake
of this record that those comments, and I almost made a comment at the time, because I knew
that was going to be a public hearing, that those comments could be considered as applicable to
this public hearing. Therefore, the comments of Mr. Charles Riebe and Mr. David Williams, who
were the first two speakers during the course of the public participation period, will be
incorporated by reference herein at this time as associated with this public hearing on the motion
to amend the budget.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any Directors who wish to speak to the motion to approve the 2018
amended budget to adopt the 2018 amended budget? Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I've had a long history of voting no on the RTD budget and
tonight I will continue in that tradition. As I listen to certain parts of our normal business,
including the question of our reserves and comments like the modifications to the light rail cars
for our ADA patrons, and the fact that it isn't all done right away because of the amount of
money that we have, I wanted to focus on the priorities of this agency. And I will vote again
tonight as a no vote on this because I believe we are not prioritizing the main mission of the
agency, which is transportation from point A to point B. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Vice-Chair Menten. I appreciate your taking the time
to express the basis for your vote. And I think we all appreciate it when we understand what it is
that motivates a particular Director on any action. So I applaud you for that. Any other
comments. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I want to say that I typically don't vote no on the
budget, but I am going to be on the amended budget on this particular occasion because I had
mentioned at the committee meeting I am concerned about what appears to me to be too many
very high paying jobs that are not actually related to transporting people. And I think that needs
to be looked at and needs to be changed. So that is the reason that I will be voting against this
budget. Anyway, thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Lubow. We appreciate that. Director Folska,
you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. This will be the first time in my tenure on this
Board where I will not be approving the budget today. There are so many reasons, one of which
perhaps more importantly is the additional money that is required for this Communications
Department is so out of balance. And at the same time, we are quote unquote right sizing our

services. I think we need to right size our Communications Department. And actually, let me
rephrase that. I think General Manager Genova should be looking into right sizing the
Communications Department.
An additional job has just been added for $80,000 to community outreach coordinator. I mean,
now that will bring this department without our lobbyist and without the call center up to 49
employees. Now I know and very much appreciate the hard work that many of the folks do, like
Diane, like Cheryl and so forth, but I do think this is incredibly excessive. And again, we're
wondering where we're going to find the money to support the low pass fare programs, to work
Mile High Connects. For everybody else that's been standing here month after month, year after
year telling us what they need, and we're just throwing money, and it feels like wild money, into
communications when we could be supporting the community that makes us a public
transportation company, the public.
So for those reasons-- I wanted to just say that this is kind of an interesting thing and I was
reflecting on this the other day. I think it's important to remember and to be reminded of things
that-- to speak up. And there is a Lutheran pastor who made a remark about standing up and
speaking up for things when they're not right. And he did this during the rise of the Nazis in
Germany, and you may recall his name Martin Niemoeller. And he said-- and by the way it's so
important that it is memorialized at the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC. And he said
when they came for the socialists, I didn't stand up or speak up, because I wasn't a socialist.
And when they came for the trade unionists, I didn't stand up because I wasn't a trade unionist.
And then they came for the Jews, and I didn't stand up for that, because I wasn't a Jew. Then they
came for me, and there was no one left to stand up for me. And so that is what comes to my
mind, really, about this budget. It's our obligation and our elected duty to stand up and speak up.
Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Folska. Chair Anderson, you are recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I am supporting this, because, according
to Colorado law, we have the right to amend our budget to meet ongoing expenses. And so a
budget is done a year ahead of time and approved a year ahead of time. But in the meantime, the
work of the agency goes on. So here's kind of what these expense adjustments are. And most of
them relate specifically to providing good service. IE, we have to provide diesel fuel for buses.
And so we have to amend the budget to reflect the price increase of diesel fuel.
We also have to talk about our represented bus operators and our private carriers. And we
approved a new budget that brought our hard working bus drivers up to a competitive wage for
bus drivers. And that increase is a $22.4 million increase. And so I'm going to vote to amend the
budget to pay our bus operators and our train operators, and oh, by the way, we discussed also
bringing our contract operators employees up to snuff. And that is what the amendment is about.
And it also carries over to rail operations. So then we also have Capital Programs increase. And
we have Safety, Security, and Asset Management. And we have all of these things, that by voting
no, we're saying we don't want to increase our employees' wages, we don't want to support good

transit service. But that's what this budget amendment is about. And we are bound by Colorado
law to do this each year. So I am going to obey the law and I'm going to approve the budget.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Chair Anderson. Director Williams, your observations,
please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just want to point out that this position that we
are elected to is not limited to the hours that we are here on Tuesday night. And I think that in
my experience, RTD staff has always been available to me at any time. And I think that anybody
who has issues with the budget or with personnel or with whatever is being at issue at the
moment should have, based on their obligation, had that discussion with the appropriate parties
prior to this meeting.
I think that there is always opportunity to do that and we should do our homework before we
come here. So I'm going to vote in favor of the budget, because I think the other issues we can
discuss at another time. We're here right now to approve the budget so that the agency can move
forward and we can continue to provide transportation. And the rest of those items I'm happy to
work with anybody who wants to talk about them at another time. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. We appreciate your comments. Director
Archuleta, you are recognized, sir.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm just a little bit-- the Nazis? Calling it the
Nazis. I'm not in the HR department, you know? Nor do I want to go hire a mechanic. Or do I
want to hire a bus driver? Do I want to hire somebody in civil rights? We're not the HR
department. I mean, you could stop the budget, like, I mean, hey, Dave, I need this one guy right
now, so you go hire him. If he needs him, he's going to hire him.
Same with Scott. If he needs somebody to get a job done, he is going to go hire-- it doesn't
matter what they get paid. They get paid. Ms. McKillop, she's going to need an accountant or
somebody new. She's going to hire them. Are we going to dictate policy to her to not hire? Wait
a second, you're going over the budget. They take care of everything. So I don't know. I just don't
get it. I'm trying to understand what you guys are trying to do here, but I'm not in the HR
department. I'm a Board member, and that's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Archuleta. Director Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I've been listening to the other Directors' concerns and I agree
with some of the things that Directors Menten, Lubow and Folska said. I also respect what
Director Anderson said about making sure that we approve budget for those essential services
and what Director Williams said. But I was also reminded at our committee meeting by CFO
McKillop that we have an opportunity to amend the budget yet again. It's just not a prescriptive
schedule for amending the budget.

So just because there's a placeholder in the budget for some of the areas with which these
Directors have concerns, I would suggest that maybe there be a little bit more deliberate process
and assessment of the cost benefit and a marketing plan and a strategic plan for the
Communications Department that we can better understand what the results would be, or if there
could be some tweaking, then we could further amend the budget at a later time.
So my concern is that I do not want to hold all of the essential services hostage in this budget
amendment for some concerns of a few items in the budget that I believe we have the flexibility
to maybe be a little bit more prudent and deliberate in deciding. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. I appreciate that. I think that was very
well said. General Manager Genova, would you like to make a comment before I make a final
comment and we can move on?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a very quick, brief factual content is that there is
no additional money in the amended budget for anything to do with communications. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I appreciate the observations made
by each Director here. I think it is critical to have open discussion. I think it is beneficial to have
open discussion, and I thank everyone for their expression of their ideas in such a civil and
courteous manner. And I think that is to be commended. I personally support the adoption for the
reasons that have been stated by Directors Catlin and Williams and Chair Anderson and others.
But I do understand the concerns and questions raised by the others. And I think that there is a
mechanic for addressing those in the future. In the immediate future, I should say. I don't want to
make it sound like we're just pushing this off to some point. All right. If there is no further
discussion, if we may proceed to vote at this time. And if recollection serves, it was Chair Sisk
who made the motion and Chair Andersen who seconded. If you would please vote, then the rest
of us may vote. And by a vote of 10 in favor and 5 opposed, the 2018 amended budget passes.
Again, we thank you all for your participation in and a very civil and reasoned discussion of that
motion. We turn them to the last of our recommended actions, and that is concerning a motion to
ratify and reaffirm the execution of a contract with Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs. The
Executive Committee presents to the Board of Directors a motion to ratify and reaffirm the
General Manager's execution of a contract for state legislative liaison lobbyist services with
Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs, referred to as BBMK, that has been executed pursuant to
and consistent with the General Manager's contract and with the delegations of authority
previously issued by the Board regarding the General Manager's contracting authority.
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And I hear from Director Solano, a motion to approve. I hear from Director
Folska, a second. And I'll just say, briefly, as the memorandum says the only issue presented
here this evening is to ratify and re-approve the contract with BBMK. There is another
discussion at some point that we will have to have relative to the signing authority issues as we
have discussed. But this motion here, is there anyone who wishes to speak on this motion? I do

not see anyone in the queue to speak on this motion. And I had Director Solano as the moveant,
and I had Director Folska as the second.
If you would please proceed to your electronic vote to ratify and re-approve the BBMK contract.
Moveant and second have voted. All other votes have been cast. The vote is 13 in favor and 1
opposed. The motion passes, that contract is ratified and re-approved. There is no executive
session that is present for this evening. Is there any old business to come before the Board at this
time from any Director?
And then may I ask, is there any new business to come before the Board? And I believe that, in
the first instance, Chair Anderson and then maybe Director Broom as well. But Chair Anderson,
you are recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. I would like to go along with Director Catlan and
perhaps we could have a Study Session on our communication. I am vitally interested in our
communications, in our-- we have a huge, a huge district, and we have a lot of people in each
one of our individual districts. And I think it's important that we be able to have a good solid
communication system. If there is anything that is going on in my district and in trying to deal
with a two-year delayed train, we need communication.
And so I would like to have, before we do anything at all, to have a presentation and go forward
with that if we can so we can resolve this issue. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your observations, Chair Anderson. We appreciate
that. And I know that Board Staff and I will address this with the Executive Committee and see
what we can arrange. Director Broom, you all recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just as a point of information, the VA Hospital in Aurora on
the Fitzsimmons campus is going to open on-- or they're going to have the official opening on
July 21, and I was contacted a few days ago by the VA to ask if there was any way that we could
provide free transportation to the vets who have VA ID cards to attend that function, as well as
for the following four weeks, I believe, is what the request was, to visit the hospital to see what
all of the new services that are going to be provided there.
So I passed that on the staff to review, but that's a short time frame for them to ask at this late
time for something like this. But I would hope that the Board would consider something like this
because those guys really deserve this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Broom. I'm wondering if anyone from staff
has a comment or an observation relative to this if we could address that at least tentatively and
initially at this time.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. My understanding is that Barbara McManus opened a
non-GMR on this, because at the same time, I think, Director Broom was contacted, we were
also contacted. I think our CFO Heather McKillop had a conversation with somebody regarding
this. This would be, I think, in my opinion, it somewhat falls outside of our policy, and I think it

would fall under the same category of when we take the no fare or free rides for active military
duty. We take that to the Board for approval.
So I do think this would have to come to the Board for discussion. And ultimately, it's really a
policy question. So I think it would be a discussion for the Board to have. As Director Broom
pointed out though, it's challenging given the very short notice, because our next Board meeting,
where we would be able to take this up, would be July 17th.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the information. We appreciate that. Director Broom, any
further comment based upon that? You don't have to feel compelled to add something. I just
asked.
BOB BROOM: I understand. But even if the Board were to take action at the next Board
Meeting, that will only give three days to get the information out there, which obviously would
not work at all. So unless there's a more expeditious way of dealing with this, we probably
should just get back to him and tell them that they've made the request too late in order to fit into
our schedule.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, and we appreciate your sharing that information with
us. Director Solano, you are recognized, sir.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair. And getting back to the Communication Department, as it's
a big topic tonight. I just would like to see a valuation where the Communication Department is
measured on bilingual communication, the hearing and the sight impaired communication, and
any other languages that might be left out and feel that they are compelled that we do something
about communication issues that this be looked into more efficiently. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Before recognizing Chair Anderson
again, who's already spoken on new business, are there any other Directors who would wish to
speak on any new business or are you essentially ready to conclude after Chair Anderson has one
last word. That being the case, Chair Anderson, you're recognized to close us out.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm sorry to have to speak twice, but I would like to point out that on
our veterans, if they're disabled, they would get a half off ticket. If they are elderly, they get half
off. And there's just a lot of them. And I think we are already serving them, so I'm not saying that
we shouldn't or should. I'm just saying that some of them are old and get half off and some of
them are disabled and get half off.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And one final closeout from Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry. I just want to tag on to that. There's also-- the VA also provides
benefits and it's not hard to qualify for transportation benefits, so that might be something that-and usually those can happen within about a 10-day to two-week window. So we might in our
response mention that they should be letting their people know to apply for VA benefits under
the transportation. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I will take a point of personal
privilege at this point just to acknowledge, I thank this Board sincerely and heartily for a very
well conducted meeting this evening. I am delighted to have the privilege of serving as your
Chairman. Seeing no further business to come before the Board at this time, the Chair will
entertain a motion to adjourn the Board meeting of June 26th. There is a motion, there's a
second. Any discussion on the motion. Hearing none, all those in favor, indicate by saying, Aye.
Aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. We stand
adjourned. Thank you all very much.

