1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Thursday, March 4, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
3:00 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here (connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 811 6274 6158#
Webinar Passcode: 246676#

GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Chaired by Vince Buzek

A. Call to Order
B. Safety Moment
C. Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

• Review of Past GM/CEO Appraisal Process
o

Sound Transit Concept

• Compensation and Benchmarking Philosophy
• Goal-Setting Policy
• Performance Evaluation
D. Coordination of Effort with Strategic Plan Development Consultant
E. Other Matters

F. Next Meeting Date:
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and
Performance Management Documents

Committee Meeting Date:
March 4, 2021

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Sound Transit Concept (PDF)

•

2010 RTD CEO Compensation Philosophy (DOCX)

•

2010 Approach to Benchmarking GM

•

2010-07-13 Goal Setting Policy Final GM (DOC)

•

2010-06-23 Performance Evaluation Policy GM

(DOCX)
(DOC)

Prepared by:
Vince Buzek, Director, District J
Nicole Carey, Administrative Specialist
Approved by:
Authorized:

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.5.a

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

J~ SoundTransit
Motion No. M2019-19
A motion of the Board of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority adopting performance
goals and objectives for Peter M. Rogoff, Sound Transit chief executive officer.

Background
In November 2015, the Board appointed Peter M. Rogoff as Sound Transit’s chief executive officer, and
in December 2015, authorized the first employment agreement with Mr. Rogoff. In November 2018, the
Board approved Motion No. M2018-155 to retain Mr. Rogoff as the chief executive officer. The
employment agreement authorized by Motion No. M2018-155 requires that the Board, in consultation
with the CEO, establish performance goals and objectives no later than March 31st of each year.
Mr. Rogoff and the Board Chair discussed the attached performance objectives and evaluation criteria
for 2019 for review by the Executive Committee and Board.

Motion
It is hereby moved by the Board of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority that the
performance goals and objectives set forth in Attachment A are adopted for chief executive officer Peter
M. Rogoff for the period of January 1,2019 to December 31,2019. The Board will consider Mr. Rogoff s
achievement of the performance goals and objectives in determining his annual performance award.

APPROVED by the Board of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority at a regular meeting
thereof held on March 28, 2019.

P*

Jo^n Marchione
Board Chair
Attest:

Kathryn Flores
Board Administrator

Motion No. M2019-19

Page 1 of 1

Packet Pg. 4

Embrace our core values in
everything we do, improving
efficiency and reducing
barriers to delivering quality
operations and system
expansion programs

Ensure long-term agency
viability by determining our
business model and
increasing organizational
capacity

-

-

Packet Pg. 5

Engage the Board in core business
model discussions and decisions to
ensure long-term agency integration,
viability and the timely delivery of the
capital program.

Maintain strong relationships with
Federal and state agencies and
legislators to ensure the continuation of
Federal funding partnerships, both
nationally and locally.

Maintain and grow effective
relationships with partner jurisdictions
and local municipalities, including staffto-staff relations, to ease the path
toward project deployment.

Implement recently adopted board
process reforms so as to make better
use of Board Members’ time and further
enhance and streamline the board’s
decision making process.

CEO Self
Evaluation
Board member
Feedback
Staff Reports
Employee
Engagement
Survey
External
agency
partners








FEEDBACK
SOURCES

PERFORMANCE
COMMENTS

Page 1 of 5

RATING

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

Motion No. M2019-19
Attachment A

Be responsible, transparent
stewards of public resources

Maintain productive partnerships with
the Board of Directors to advance
capital program including Board
member engagement in project
development. Ensure that the agency
respond’s promptly and fully to all Board
member inquiries.

Deliver a broad and ambitious
array of capital projects
simultaneously, and ensure the
long-term operation of the
system we are building

-

PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE

ST 2019 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES

2019 Performance Goals and Objectives for the CEO:

2019 CEO Appraisal Process

1.C.5.a

Maintain a regional strategy
for transit integration, as well
as the partnerships to
execute it

-

Packet Pg. 6

Promote transit integration as a strategic
priority in the agency and empower
employees to make decisions to
promote transit integration for
passengers.

Advance and implement strategies to
enhance the customer experience.
Ensure that the Chief Customer
Experience Officer has a full seat at the
table as decisions are made in other
departments that will impact the
customer experience.

Retool Board reporting mechanisms and
analytics to more accurately depict
trends in the quality of the customer
experience.

Establish new systems and processes
to better measure customer experience.

Paint a compelling picture for all staff of
what customer focus looks like. Build
and maintain the conditions that make
service excellence possible.

Staff Reports



Community
Outreach
Measurements

Board member
Feedback





CEO Self
Evaluation



Page 2 of 5

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

Motion No. M2019-19
Attachment A

Continue to attract ridership
by investing in a quality rider
experience, ensuring—across
modes—that our service is
reliable, accessible, clean,
secure, and safe

-

Be our riders’ regional transit
provider, connecting them to
where they want to go

Advance initiatives to build human
capital, both in recruiting new talent and
growing talent internally.

Advance improvements to streamline
processes to minimize or eliminate
unnecessary bureaucracy.

Continue the change management
process to establish a culture of
continuous improvement and
collaboration to strengthen the agency’s
organizational structures and processes.

1.C.5.a

Facilitate a workplace culture
that supports and maintains
holistic—physical and
psychological—safety for
everyone who works with and
for us

-

Proactively manage our
commitments to support
smart regional growth, foster
transit-oriented development
and improved transit access,
design and build greener
projects, and operate our
fleets and facilities more
efficiently

Packet Pg. 7

Anticipate and balance the needs of
diverse agency stakeholders, acting
fairly and consistently despite conflicting
demands and requirements.

Promote collaboration, goodwill,
constructive conflict, and equity across
the agency by looking for alignment and
creating the most mutually effective
outcomes in decision-making and
resource allocation.

Develop and promote an inclusive
workplace by building teams with a mix
of diverse styles, perspectives, and
experiences.

Demonstrate active listening, selfawareness, and strong relationship
building to create a safe environment
where all are enabled to bring their best
selves to work each day to drive team
and agency performance.

Respond promptly to internal and
external recommendations to enhance
safety.

Ensure that senior managers model
appropriate safety behavior and
highlight its importance to staff.

Promote safety as a strategic priority in
the agency and empower employees to
make decisions to promote safety – for
passengers, employees and
contractors.

Executive
Leadership
Team
Feedback

Employee
Engagement
Survey





Staff Reports

Board member
Feedback




CEO Self
Evaluation

Executive
Leadership
Team
Feedback





Employee
Engagement
Survey

Staff Reports




CEO Self
Evaluation



Page 3 of 5

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

Motion No. M2019-19
Attachment A

-

Conduct quality work in a
sustainable and equitable
manner in order to enhance the
natural and human
environment for decades to
come

Manage hazards by
incorporating safety on our
vehicles and in our facilities
at every stage—planning,
design, construction,
operations, and maintenance

-

Ensure the safety of everyone
who works for us, our
customers, and the
communities we serve

1.C.5.a

-

□

□
□

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

Page 4 of 5

Date

Unsatisfactory

John Marchione, Sound Transit Board Chair

□

Motion No. M2019-19
Attachment A

Date

Needs Improvement

□

Peter Rogoff, Sound Transit CEO

Successful

OVERALL PERFORMANCE RATING

Embrace personal responsibility for the
agency and set the “tone at the top” by
building an atmosphere of trust and
culture where everyone has ownership
and responsibility.

Champion a culture where everyone
feels they have a place in the
organization.

Foster, and lead by example, to create
and sustain an environment where
diverse perspectives and ideas are
listened to, valued and authentically
considered.

Excellent

Overall Performance Comments:

Outstanding

Ensure that equity informs
the full-range of decisions
that drive the agency’s work,
including employment
practices, community
engagement, small and
disadvantaged business
enterprise utilization,
procurements, and policy
development

1.C.5.a

Employees who have performed beyond the established review period goals and who consistently
model the highest standards of skills and behavioral attributes for their job and level of responsibility
in the agency. The individual who reaches this level of excellence does so through truly unique,
exemplary, and/or exceptional application of knowledge, theory, practices and polished skills.
Employees who meet Sound Transits high performance standards and expectations. This employee
can be fully depended upon to consistently achieve job goals and perform the essential functions of
their position.
Employees in need of development to reach a level that would be expected from a fully successful
employee. The employee at this level of performance may be learning new skills or developing new
core competencies. It could also be given when behavioral problems have created setbacks during
the review period. A PIP may be required.
Employees who are not meeting job priorities and goals. Improvement is necessary for continued
employment with Sound Transit and an employee may be required to participate in a PIP as a
condition of continued employment.

Excellent

Successful

Needs
Improvement

Unsatisfactory

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Sound Transit Concept (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management Documents)

Page 5 of 5

Making a truly outstanding and unique contribution to the success of the agency, their department or
their team. This employee is a leader and a team player who embodies the values of Sound Transit,
exhibits superior abilities to work with others and contributes to the agency’s performance.

Outstanding

Motion No. M2019-19
Attachment A

Sound Transit

Rating

Appendix A: Sound Transit Rating Definitions

1.C.5.a

1.C.5.b

Operating Strategy

Executive
Compensation
Strategy

Guiding Principles for
Compensation

1|Page

The mission of RTD is to meet our constituents’ present and
future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible and cost effective service throughout the
district. The targets of success are:
• RTD receives continuous recognition as “Number 1
transit in America”
• RTD is established as national model for innovative, and
successful implementation of programs, operations and
services
In order to achieve our mission and be recognized as the
number 1 agency, our executive compensation strategy needs
to attract, retain and motivate a highly qualified and competent
executive leadership team (the best and the brightest). Our
strategy is to:
• Use Benchmarking as a reference point to ensure
competitiveness with other comparable transit agencies
in size, scope and capital project complexity. Also
perform 3 year reviews of external competitive market
space which could be another source for obtaining
excellent leadership talent.
• Strive for employee parity by negotiating General
Manager agreement where benefits and procedures are
directly tied to the benefits and procedures offered to all
RTD salaried employees.
• Implement formal performance goal setting and
evaluation processes that are tied into the task
goals/initiatives from the annual joint advance planning
session and the annual core goals. These goals will drive
the budget.
To attract and retain the best and the brightest:
• Seek the right total compensation—Total compensation
should be attractive to the caliber of executives we
seek, competitive based on transit industry market
conditions or external market space where these
executives may be drawn , and flexible based on the
experience, performance success record, and value-add
that the executive brings to this agency.
• Provide Credible General Manager Board Oversight and
Performance Management—Oversight committee
develops credible and measurable goals and
comprehensive evaluation processes that are inclusive
of full Board input and provide early feedback
mechanisms on performance.
Revised: 07/10/11
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2010 RTD CEO Compensation Philosophy (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

RTD CEO Compensation Philosophy Model

•

Authoritative
Responsibility

•
•

•
Pay components and
Key Objectives

•
•

Benefits Components
and Key Objectives

•
•
•
•
•

•

Other potential
Benefits
2|Page

•

Maintain Public Transparency and Communications—
Processes involving the selection, hiring, and
compensation practices for the General Manager are
fair, transparent, and communicated to the public
through open forums and annual reviews.
Section 32-9-114(1) (d) of the RTD Act provides the
Board with the power to establish compensation of all
District officers, agents and employees.
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee
provide the oversight for this compensation model. The
full RTD Board of Directors votes to approve the actions
taken on the GM compensation or performance review.
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for financial
audit and validation of financial information.
Base Salary—Base salary will fall within the top 25th
percentile of comparably-sized agencies or similar
markets based on benchmarking study.
Merits—Eligibility based on performance and terms of
the contract
Retirement—Participation in RTD Salaried Defined
Contribution Plan at a level equivalent to other salaried
employees
Contribution to a 457 plan (or equivalent) up to the
maximum amount permitted by law
Health/Life Insurance—Participation in RTD Health/Life
insurance plan with premiums paid at a level equivalent
to other salaried employees
Expense Reimbursements-Follow RTD policy for
reimbursements per IRS allowance for accountable
plans.
Vacations—Maximum accrual based on years of service.
o Accrual capped at a level equivalent to other
salaried employees based on Employee Benefits
Handbook or as amended.
o Payoff of accrual based on number of service at
a level equivalent to other salaried employees.
Sick Leave—Accrues at same level as other salaried
employee based on Employee Benefits Handbook or as
amended.
o Accrual capped at a level equivalent to other
salaried employees based on Employee Benefits
Handbook or as amended.
o Payoff of accrual based on number of service at
a level equivalent to other salaried employees.
Vehicle Allowance—Access to use of RTD pool vehicles
similar to other RTD employees.
Revised: 07/10/11
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 2010 RTD CEO Compensation Philosophy (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

1.C.5.b

•
•
Compensation Review
Cycle

•

Lifetime Pass—Eligibility defined in accordance with the
Employee Benefits Handbook or as amended.
Other competitive benefits as identified by and approved
by the RTD transit agency
Annually or as necessary to make appropriate changes.

Signed:

Date:

_________________________________________________
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee Chair

____________

_________________________________________________
Chair of RTD Board of Directors

____________

3|Page

Revised: 07/10/11
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2010 RTD CEO Compensation Philosophy (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

1.C.5.b

Approach to Benchmarking for General Manager
1. Identify the 24 transit properties listed by APTA as the agencies with 2500+ employees. Include Salt
Lake City for regional reference although SLC is listed as agency with 1000 to 2499 employees.
2. Work with Bruce Abel, AGM of operations to identify metric factors for evaluation.
3. Performa a benchmarking survey on these properties on the core business based on these factors:
•
•
•
•

•

Number of employees
fleet composition (buses and LRT and other)
base capital budget for core business (expansion-i.e. FasTracks separate)
Operating information (service area population, population density, service area, passenger
miles, annual vehicle revenue hours, annual vehicle revenue miles, annual unlinked tripsridership
Operating budget

4. Eliminate the most obvious that are less like RTD (Boston, Chicago, LA County,NYC,NY- Long Island,
Philadelphia, SFMTA-San Francisco, Wash, D.C.)

5. Determine from this list the 14 transit properties that are most similar to Denver. Apply second cut
to narrow this list to top 5 agencies most similar to Denver based on the number of metric factors
out of 14 possible metrics.
6. Identify properties by rank: Houston(9/14), MDT Miami (8/14),MTA Baltimore(7/14),DARTDallas(6/14), King County Metro Seattle(5/14)
7. Benchmark the selected properties based on cost of living factors (i.e. housing, groceries, utilities,
transportation, healthcare, and salary), benefits, etc.

Other ways to manipulate the data (per Cherie Sprague, HR)
8. If desired, apply values/weights to these different factors (for example, could apply a .6 weight to
the items under 2 above and .2 to 3 above) use these factors along with the accura index to balance
out the comparable factors. Could also use factors based on what % of the time the GM is spending
in core business versus FasTracks or special projects.
9. Use a factor for what % of GM time is spent in core business versus FasTracks
10. The weights and factors could change annually based on the progress of FasTracks and its
integration to core business. That percent could go up or down.
11. Could have Mountain States do a benchmark of CEO’s compensation in the Denver region for public
agencies. Compare to GM. Can elect to put this into the formula and factor some % to it as well (.2
as an example)

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2010 Approach to Benchmarking GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.c

Benchmarking of Transit Agencies
Purpose:
1. Address findings by the state audit on the process used by RTD to benchmark the previous
manager’s base salary and provide a response to their recommendation # 1 , a-g, (to
benchmark all key elements of the General manager’s compensation package and to
conduct benchmarking analysis each time the GM employment contract is renegotiated;
During years when not renegotiated , gather & update external market and internal data)
2. Review peer groups and selection criteria on annual basis (included in approved Board
evaluation process for GM)
3. Utilize information obtained from benchmarking study to determine factors for
development of compensation philosophy (Recommendation # 5)
Preliminary Conclusion:
1. There is no standard methodology used by the transit agency (APTA) to benchmark transit
properties. Moreover, the data that is collected by the NTB or other sources differ in
interpretation and how the respective agencies responded to the question-lacks consistency
in response.
2. Because of the discrepancy in reporting, it is difficult to obtain a baseline for this data.
3. While the reported base salary for the various agencies is available, the factors and total
compensation package varies greatly and is difficult to obtain for a total compensation
package (i.e. GM may have a lower base salary but with other benefits not obtainable-(i.e.
treated confidentially) could result in a higher compensation package). Such undeclared
benefits include membership in health clubs, automobile allowances, housing allowances,
etc. The General Manager for RTD has no hidden benefit and does not accept health or
automobile benefits.
4. There does not appear to be a correlation between agency sizes, how they rank on the 14
metrics, years in position, etc and the reported salary of the GM.
5. There does not appear much correlation between the cost of living index for a city and the
GM reported salary (i.e. cities with higher COL than Denver reported lower General
Manager salary than RTD)
6. Both RTD and Dallas are the only two agencies showing significant growth in capital projects
(base & expansion). This appears to be one of the metrics where RTD exceeds its peer
properties and would be a logical variable to include in the compensation philosophy for
Denver
7. Pertaining to metrics associated with base business, Denver does not stand out in any
particular area.
8. The five properties identifies as most similar to Denver was based on a composite of the
most metric factors closest to Denver without any weight assigned to these metrics (i.e.
Houston-9 out of 14, MDT-8 out of 14, MTA Baltimore-7 out of 14, Dallas-6 out of 14, and
King County Metro Seattle-5 out of 14.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 2010 Approach to Benchmarking GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.c

9. Data for King County-Seattle may be suspect (skewed) because they do not adequately
separate out the transit components of their system from the overall King County budget.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 2010 Approach to Benchmarking GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.c

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

RTD Board of Directors

Date:

From:

General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee, Director Busck, Chair

GM

Date:

July 13, 2010

Board Meeting Date: July 20,2010

Subject:

Board Policy on Goal Setting Process for the
General Manager

ACTION

DISCUSSION

INFO

X

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the General Manager goal setting process.

BACKGROUND
In March, 2010, the State Auditors completed their audit of the executive compensation practices at RTD.
While much of this/her work centered on past practices with the former General Manager, a number of
recommendations were provided that this/her current Board would like to integrate into their ongoing role of
oversight for the General Manager position. Recommendation number 4(c) of this audit looked at the
monetary incentive and goal setting practices and provided the recommendation that the Board needs to
establish a clear process for developing and vetting performance goals for the General Manager, including
prescribing guidance to ensure that the resulting performance goals will meet the overall objectives of the
incentive program.
The current General Manager’s contract does not offer any monetary incentives. However, the General
Manager will receive annual evaluations based on the goals that will be established for him at the joint
Board/staff advance held in the 1st quarter of the previous year. For example, goals established in 2010 at
the Advance will be used to drive the budget in 2011 and will be evaluated in 2011.
The purpose of this policy is to establish a clear process for goal setting and establishing of the General
Manager’s annual goals that is transparent and well documented.
DISCUSSION
•

Recommended General Manager Goal Setting Process:
1. During the early first quarter of each year, the Board members and senior level management
will participate in a facilitated Board Advance planning workshop to develop the strategic
goals for the agency. Board members and staff members will work together to identify and
prioritize the top goals for the agency. The Board members will determine what these goals
will be. These goals will drive the budget for the next year budgeting cycle. For example,
goals established in 2010 will drive the 2011 budget cycle, etc.
2. At the next study session or as soon thereafter, the General Manager will present these
priorities with his/her tactical plan for measurable milestone deliverables associated with these
goals. If the Board agrees as indicated with a general consensus from 8 or more of the Board
members, these plans become integrated into the budgeting cycle and the General Manager’s
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: 2010-07-13 Goal Setting Policy Final GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.d

Board of Directors Policy
Page 2

goal setting for the next year. If more discussion, policy definition or consensus building is
needed, the Chair will assign a task force or working group consisting of Board members and
appropriate staff to refine and obtain agreement on how these goals will be achieved.
3. The schedule for goal setting is integrated into the budget preparation schedule for the
following year. In March or April following the Board Advance Planning workshop, the finance
department will begin their preparation for the annual TDP/budget calendar process. The task
goals from the Board Advance planning session (and refined from the tactical work groups)
will be used to drive the budget for the next year cycle. The TDP/budget calendar process
will continue through November when it is approved by the Board.
4. In conjunction with the actions outlined in paragraph #2 above, The General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management ad hoc goal setting work group will meet with the
General Manager to document the core competencies and task goals for his/her performance
evaluation for the following year. This step also serves to formalize the General Manager’s
tactical plan mentioned in paragraph #2 above. Core goals are considered expected
competencies that are part of his/her job description and should reflect what every General
Manager should be doing to manage an effective agency. The task goals are inclusive of the
priorities established by the joint Board and staff at the annual advance planning workshop
(step 1-3 above) and should also reflect other task goals that are critical to the agency
success. The task goals are more tied into performance and should have measurable
components.
5. In order to align with the rest of the salaried employees, the General Manager will use the
same salary employee performance appraisal template as used by the agency salaried
employees to set his/her annual goals. These goals will normally include the core goals and
task goals described in 2 above. Goals should be SMART (specific, measurable, attainable,
realistic and timely) and have some stretch to them. When defining the goals on the
template, the General Manager will identify three possible rating levels of performance and
define the criteria to achieve each. These rating levels are: needs improvement, achieved goal
or exceeded expectations. The criteria would relate to the tactical milestones described in 3
above.
Please refer to the policy on evaluation to see how these rating levels are used to tie in actual
performance to the merit increase (if applicable) during the evaluation process.
6. Once the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee has approved
the goals and the criteria for rating, the goal setting form will be taken before the full Board for
their review and approval. This process should be completed by July of the current year.
Please see Attachment 1 for a visual depiction of this process.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact to implementing this policy.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action for the goal setting process identified above. This will meet the
goal established by the state auditors for a clearly defined process for goal setting for the General
Manager and is aligned to the process used for salaried employees.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 2010-07-13 Goal Setting Policy Final GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.d

Board of Directors Policy
Page 3

2. Do not accept this recommended action. Revise a new process that does not tie the General
Manager goals to the strategic goals mutually established at the annual Board Advance planning
workshop.
3. Do nothing. Accept the risk and consequences of not complying with the State Auditor’s
recommendation for a clear and documented process.
Prepared by: Phil Washington, General Manager for GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee

Related Board Policies: Board Policy on General Manager Evaluation Process

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: 2010-07-13 Goal Setting Policy Final GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

1.C.5.d

1.C.5.d
Attachment 1: Sample Visual Depiction
Budget Calendar with Board GoalSetting Cycle & Evaluation Process

Attachment: 2010-07-13 Goal Setting Policy Final GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance Management

Board of Directors Policy
Page 4

Packet Pg. 19

1.C.5.e

To:

RTD Board of Directors

Date:

From:

General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee, Director Busck, Chair

GM

Date:

May 26, 2010

Board Meeting Date: July 20,2010

Subject:

Board Policy on the Evaluation Process for the
General Manager’s Annual Performance Review

ACTION

DISCUSSION

INFO

X

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the process to perform an annual evaluation of the General
Manager performance that is inclusive of feedback from all Board members and the process is transparent to
the public.

BACKGROUND
In March, 2010, the State Auditors completed their audit of the executive compensation practices at RTD.
While much of this work centered on past practices with the former General Manager, a number of
recommendations were provided that this current Board would like to integrate into their ongoing role of
oversight for the General Manager position. Recommendation number 3 of this audit identified four areas
where the Board could strengthen our annual performance evaluation of the General Manager:
a. Establish performance standards and accompanying evaluation factors that are comprehensive and
highlight the core competencies and skill sets required to perform the job.
b. Define a metric for each performance standard and evaluation factor to ensure consistent application
of the rating criteria.
c. Provide the written performance evaluation to the General Manager annually and maintain a copy in
the General Manager’s personnel file.
d. Use the annual performance evaluation as the basis for determining increases in the General
Manager’s base salary.
The current General Manager’s contract does not offer any pay tied into performance or bonus opportunity.
It is a base salary with the opportunity for up to 5% merit increase based on performance. The Board policy
on the goal setting process defines how goals will be set each year that will be used in the evaluation
process.
The purpose of this policy is to establish the process whereby the General Manager will be given his annual
performance evaluation that will include his performance on both core and task goals. It is to also adopt a
process for the General Manager annual review that is consistent with the process used by the agency on all
salaried employee evaluations.

DISCUSSION
The RTD Human Resources department uses a common form for all salaried employees to establish the
annual goals by which the employee is evaluated and rated at the end of the year. This form is called the
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: 2010-06-23 Performance Evaluation Policy GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT

1.C.5.e

“Salaried Employees Performance Appraisal form “and is updated as applicable by Human Resources. This
will be the same form that the General Manager will use for his annual review.
Recommended General Manager Evaluation Process:
The evaluation component for the General Manager will have two components: Quarterly GM
Activities Report and the Annual Performance Evaluation.
1. On a quarterly basis, or as determined by the General Manager and GM Oversight and
Performance Management Committee, the General Manager will submit a summary of his
activities and progress to the Board members. The Board members will use the enclosure
section of this quarterly GM activities update to provide feedback to the General Manager and
to allow for a quarterly Board recalibration of the GM’s activities if necessary. Additionally,
this form will be used to provide to the GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
their respective GM feedback. Within ten days of receipt of these quarterly reports, Board
members will submit their feedback in a confidential envelope to the Executive Manager of the
Board Office who will be responsible for maintaining a copy in the General Manager’s
personnel file and submitting a copy to the General Manager.
2. On or before November 1 of the given year, the General Manager will work with the Chair of
the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee to fill in the
Salaried Employees Performance Appraisal form of the core and task goals that were identified
in the goal setting process. The General Manager will provide his self –assessment of how he
actually performed in terms of achieved goals, not achieved goals or exceeded goals. This
assessment will be accompanied with supporting documents of achievement based in the
assessment.
3. The GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee will facilitate a meeting with the
full Board to review these achievements and to obtain feedback from the full Board on their
assessment. Board members will be asked to complete an evaluation form indicating their
concurrence or disagreement on these areas of performance. The goal is to provide an
opportunity for each Board member to provide his/her input to the evaluation of the General
Manager.
4. Based on the performance review and if a majority of the Board feels that the General
Manager has achieved or exceeded in his performance, relevant to the Board-approved core
competencies and/or task goals, the General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee
may provide a recommendation to the Chair for a merit increase (for performance) of up to
5% or as specified in the General Manager’s contract. Consistent with good performance by
the General Manager, increases in the General Manager’s pay is at the discretion of the Board
and may be dependent upon such conditions as the financial/budgetary condition of the
agency for the given year, and whether other agency salaried employees are afforded an
increase for the year in question.
5. The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee will have the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) to validate all calculations pertaining to the General Manager’s
compensation. The CFO will obtain an independent review of cost data to determine what
impact, if any, the recommended merit will have on the total compensation package. As
recommended by the State Auditor findings, the CFO will use an ongoing tally or similar sheet
to indicate annual changes to the General Manager’s compensation.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: 2010-06-23 Performance Evaluation Policy GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

Board of Directors Policy
Page 2

1.C.5.e

6. The General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee will also review any relevant
benchmarking data to validate the compensation of the General Manager is competitive and
fair based on its compensation philosophy. If benchmarking data indicate that the General
Manager’s compensation is not competitive and is unfair based on the organization’s
compensation philosophy, the Board may adjust the General Manager’s salary if his
performance achieves or exceeds expectations, relevant to the Board-approved core
competencies and/or task goals. The same conditions outlined in Paragraph 4 above apply,
with regard to the financial/budgetary condition of the agency for the given year and whether
other agency salaried employees are afforded an increase for the year in question.
7. The Board Chair and the Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee will meet with the General Manager to give him his composite review
that will include results from steps 1-4 above. This review must be signed by the Chair and
the General Manager and performed before December 31st or as specified in the General
Manager’s contract. A copy will be retained in the General Manager’s personnel file.
8. The Board Chair will use the performance evaluation along with the cost validation from the
CFO to approve the appropriate salary (merit) increase. Any increase in salary should be
effective January 1 of the year following the performance review or as specified in the
General Manager’s contract.
9. The Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management will provide an
annual status update of changes to the General Manager’s compensation or contract in the
first public regular Board meeting following the completion of the evaluation process.
10. In January of each year, the Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors will publish a
calendar of events, timelines and names of the persons responsible associated with the tasks
identified in items 1-9. This information will be used to schedule appropriate meeting and
trigger action required to meet the agreed upon timelines for completion of the General
Manager Evaluation process.
Please see attachment 1 for a high level depiction of this process.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact will be based on terms in the General Manager’s contract.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action for the General Manager evaluation process identified above. This
will satisfy the recommendation provided by the state auditors for a formal process for annually
evaluating the General Manager’s performance in a consistent and transparent manner.
2. Do not accept this recommended action. Revise a new process that is ad hoc and performed in
an inconsistent manner.
3. Do nothing. Accept the risk and consequences of not complying with the State Auditor’s
recommendation for a clear and transparent process.
Prepared by: Phil Washington, General Manager, for GM Oversight and Performance Management
Committee

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: 2010-06-23 Performance Evaluation Policy GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

Board of Directors Policy
Page 3

1.C.5.e

Attachment: 2010-06-23 Performance Evaluation Policy GM (4484 : Previous Guiding Principles for GM/CEO Oversight and Performance

Board of Directors Policy
Page 4

Related Policies: Board Policy on Goal Setting Process for the General Manager

Packet Pg. 23

