Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 1, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
May 1, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley, Chair Kemp; Directors Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams and
Walker

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Anderson, Malpiede, and O’Boyle

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, John Dawson, Jane Donovan, Shannon Duty, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Ron Enserro, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Ana Mostaccero, Paula
Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas,
Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Matt Christian, CJ
Czupor, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Paul McGuire,
Jacob Riger – DRCOG, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Bob Wilson

Call to Order:
I.

****
Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 8:41 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Grant of Easement for roof Overhang Encroachment and Trellis Encroachment
over RTD owned property at 18th Street, near Denver Union Station, 1701
Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive easement allowing for the roof
overhang encroachment of the adjacent office and retail building to be
constructed by North Wing Building Venture, LLC containing approximately
1,096 square feet allowing the intersection of 18th Street near Denver Union
Station at 1701 Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 2 of 4

Susan Altes gave a brief summary and presentation, making verbal corrections
to the discussion portion of the Board of Directors Report: The easement will
encumber 1,096 square feet or RTD owned property, more or less, at
approximately 65 feet, not 165 and correct the language18th and Wynkoop
Street to just 18th Street. Those corrections will be made to the hard copy as
well.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the
motion to forward this item to the
full board at the May 22, 2012
Board meeting.
Director James seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:



Director Walker asked if there
would be any protection from the
birds making a mess on the over
head. Susan Altes stated that it
will be the responsibility of the
City and County of Denver to
provide maintenance but that it
would be maintained.
The Board voted 12 in favor and 0
against. Directors Anderson,
Malpiede had left the conference
call and Director O’Boyle was
absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Authorization for the Conveyance of Property, Acquisition of Property, and
Participation in a Condominium Association for the Boulder Transit Village and
Depot Square
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate
Motion: Director Tayer made the
motion to forward this item to the
full board at the May 22, 2012
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 3 of 4

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:

Bill Sirois passed out a new
handout of the drawing for this
proposed property. Marla Lien
gave a brief recap of the legal
rights of the acquisition and
reviewed the specifications of the
condominium agreement.
Kate Iverson walked through all
aspects of the map diagram
handed out and opened the floor
for any questions. Director Tayer
stated that this is a very complex
project. He looks forward to
supporting this project and the
opportunity to make this an
incredible vibrant area with an
increase of affordable housing and
a great visibility to the community.
He thanked staff for dong the
heavy lifting. Director James
thanked staff and stated this
project has transformed that
neighborhood into something
great. Director McMullen stated
this project is a wonderful thing
and shared that it was located
nowhere near the Pearl Street
Mall. Director McMullen asked
staff to clarify “affordable
housing”. Kate Iverson stated that
it was based on the average
medium income of the city with an
AMI range of 60-80. Director
Bagley expresses his excitement
about the project and fully
supports it.
The Board voted 12 in favor and 0
against. Directors Anderson and
Malpiede had left the conference
cal and Director O’Boyle was
absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 1, 2012
Page 4 of 4

II. Other Matters
Chairperson Bagley shared that last week several of the Directors and General
Manager Washington attended an invite for the City & County of Denver/DIA
presentation. The presentation gave a great understanding of the impact the airport
has to the City and County of Denver.
III. Next Meeting June 12, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 9:08 p.m.

