Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 14, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order

II.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - September 26, 2017
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget
transfer from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information
Technology, Data Processing Services expense budget to the Network Equipment
and Switches Upgrade project to fund the replacement of the network equipment
needed on the rail lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and
Central Platte Valley rail lines.
B.

ITS Work Order Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract (Contract Number
17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will
be included in the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
C.

Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to exercise the final option year and increase the contract amount by
$172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to
provide ticket selling services for special event fares through April 15, 2019.
XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer from the Garage
Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services
expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the replacement of
the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest,
Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines.
BACKGROUND
Network equipment that supports commerce and security activities on the Southwest, Southeast and
Central Plate Valley rail lines are no longer in a state of good repair. The network equipment and
switches need to be replaced as the technology is at end-of-life and may become unreliable.
The new network equipment includes multiple network switches and routers which connect to RTD’s
core network infrastructure. Total estimated costs are not to exceed $900,000.
In 2015, a Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) funding request was made to replace equipment on one of the
three rail lines. This project has $320,000 available. An unrelated project, the Garage Concentrator
Upgrade project, was completed under budget and has $325,000 remaining that can be used for the
Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project. The Garage Concentrator Upgrade project originally
included contract services to install the equipment. The Information Technology team opted to install
the equipment using in-house resources resulting in overall project savings of $325,000. The remaining
$255,000 needed for the Network Equipment project is available in the Information Technology
expense budget.
DISCUSSION
As the district continues to lean more heavily on technology, our reliance upon the network
infrastructure increases in need and criticality. For example, Ticket Vending Machines (TVM) accept
credit cards. The network equipment that connects the TVMs to RTD infrastructure must adhere to
Payment Card Industry standards. Moreover, this network equipment is used to transport information
to the Public Information Displays (PIDs) on the platforms, and is used by security in support of the
security cameras and emergency telephones.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The project budget will not exceed $900,000. $325,000 was previously approved in the SBP. This

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

request is asking for permission to transfer $320,000 from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade Project
and $255,000 from the Information Technology expense budget to the Network Equipment and
Switches Upgrade project.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer from the Garage
Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology, Data Processing Services
expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches Upgrade project to fund the replacement
of the network equipment needed on the rail lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest,
Southeast and Central Platte Valley rail lines. This is the preferred alternative.
2. RTD replaces the equipment and switches on one rail line at a cost $325,000. This leaves two other
rail lines at risk of equipment failure potentially leaving RTD unable to collect revenue, use
emergency telephones, and collect security camera footage.
3. RTD does not replace the legacy switch equipment on these lines and continues to use the existing
equipment, some of which is not Payment Card Industry compliant. This puts the agency at risk of
violating PCI endorsement.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

ITS Work Order Contract

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract
(Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the
budgets of the projects on which the work is performed.
BACKGROUND
RTD has need of an on-call contractor to perform work in support of initiatives including Information
Technology Governance; Service Provision, Acquisition and Contracting; Intelligent Transportation
Systems, Emerging Technologies and Transit Business Operations. The contractor will provide
technical support of the agency’s broad range of technologies and applications. The Work Orders (WOs)
will be short to mid-term periods.
DISSCUSSION
RTD conducted an open procurement for an ITS Work Order contractor.
proposals. The criteria used to evaluate the proposals was:
Item
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6

Item
Corporate Qualifications
Offer addresses the full portfolio of services
References
Staff Qualifications
Prototypical Project Management Plan and Monthly Status
Report
Cost

Six firms submitted

Weight
(%)
25
10
10
25
5
25

The five members of the evaluation team selected three firms for interviews. Apex was selected as
the successful proposer.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $10,000,000. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in
the budgets of the projects on which the work is performed. The types of funds are dependent upon
the funding source of each individual project. Individual work orders will be funded as the project
requirement is processed. The amount is not to exceed $2,000,000 in any one year.

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order
Contract (Contract Number 17DH010) for an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years.
This is the preferred alternative.
2. Provide the needed services with RTD personnel. RTD personnel does not have the expertise or
capacity for the work provided by a work order contractor. This does not meet the needs of RTD.
3. Advertise again and proceed with an entirely new procurement. This would take well over six
months and not likely result in a different outcome.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

September 7, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Contract Extension for Special
Event Ticket Sellers

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: September 7, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: September 26, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the final option year and
increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central Parking System,
Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares through April 15, 2019.
BACKGROUND
RTD is currently contracted with Central Parking Systems, Inc. for a term of three years plus two option
years. The initial three-year period had a contract value of $448,336.09. The first option year has been
exercised increasing the contract amount to $598,336.09. Exercising the final option year will add
$172,000.00 to the contract authority for a revised contract amount not-to-exceed $770,336.09.
DISCUSSION
Ticket sellers are deployed to supplement ticket vending machines (TVMs) and Park-n-Rides during
periods of high passenger volume for special events. Providing these supplemental ticket sales avoids
long lines at the TVMs, allows for more streamlined boardings and provides good customer service.
These ticket selling services are used during Rockies and Broncos games as well as other special events
such as The Race for the Cure, large concerts, etc.
Central Parking provides the staffing necessary for these supplemental ticket sales. RTD retains all fares
sold by the ticket sellers and pays Central Parking for the staffing they supply. The following shows the
last three years of ticket sales performed by Central Parking.
Contract
Costs

Ticket Sales
2016
2015
2014

$

652,130
821,023
855,960

$

(146,849)
(179,702)
(186,418)

Net
$

505,281
641,321
669,542

The ticket sellers on the rail corridors are housed in secure booths at certain rail stations where high
passenger volumes occur. The booths have internet and power connections which allow the sellers to
accept credit cards as well as cash.
RTD has contracted with Central Parking to provide the staffing for these supplemental ticket sales
because RTD does not have enough staffing resources in-house. During these events, RTD schedules
additional coverage with RTD revenue technicians to service TVMs and also may provide some RTD
ticket sellers that use handheld ticket selling devices.

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Exercising the final option year will authorize $172,000 in contract funding. Funding for 2017 is
included in the 2017 Amended Budget approved by the Board of Directors in June 2016 and will be
included in the 2018 Budget request.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the final option
year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD contract with Central
Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event fares through April 15,
2019. This is the recommended action.
2) Do not approve the recommendation by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
exercise the final option year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the
RTD contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special event
fares through April 15, 2019. This is not the recommended action because it would result in long
lines to purchase tickets, uneven boardings and customer dissatisfaction.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

