Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 10, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 11:58 p.m.

II.

Committee members present:

Chair Sisk, 2nd Vice Chair Menten, Secretary Walker
and Treasurer Hoy.

Committee members absent:

1st Vice Chair Tobiassen

Other Board members present:

Director Bagley, Director Folska (via phone)

Others present:

Interim General Manager Genova, Barbara McManus

Action Item: Pension Trust Reappointments RTD Board Resolution
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve
moving this resolution to the full Board at the September 15,
2015 Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Sisk introduced the action item and asked Interim
General Manager Dave Genova to present the resolution.
Interim General Manager Genova spoke to the Pension Trust
and explained that Scott Reed and Lou Ha were valuable
members of the RTD Pension Trust fund and this resolution
recommends the extension of their terms through 2017. All
other members are listed on page 6 of your packet for
review.

Chair Sisk asked if there was any discussion for this item.
He added that there had been conversations between Paula
Perdue and Director Tobiassen regarding the timing of this
action as opposed to waiting until December. It was decided
that since Scott Reed and Lou Ha were willing to continue
their service we should move forward with this action. Chair
Sisk noted that Directors Lubow and Tobiassen will end their
terms on December 31, 2016. There was no further
discussion.
Vote on
motion:

III.

The Committee approved unanimously to move the Pension
Trust Reappointment Resolution to the Board meeting on
September 15, 2015.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk moved forward in review of the September agenda.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve moving this agenda
before the full Board on September 15, 2015.
Director Menten seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Sisk indicated there had been no GM Executive Search
Committee but we were moving forward in collecting
candidate applications and letters of interest. No indication of
candidate names has been presented. Chair Sisk asked Kent
Bagley, Chair of the GM Oversight and Performance
Committee, if he had any updates. Director Bagley said the
committee will be going through the Performance Evaluation
process starting in late October.
Chair Sisk moved into the review of the unanimous consent
agenda. There was no discussion regarding the unanimous
consent agenda.
Chair Sisk moved the discussion forward to the
recommended action agenda starting with the purchase of
17 additional light rail vehicles. Interim General Manager
Genova mentioned there were a number of questions that
staff were working to answer and he would send an update
on Friday to the full Board. Director Bagley asked what the

vote was for this item. Interim General Manager Genova
indicated the vote was 12 – 2 and Chair Sisk confirmed.
Chair Sisk introduced the EcoPass pricing for 2016 action
item into the discussion. Chair Sisk indicated that the vote
on this item was 10 – 4 with Lasater, Francone, Solano and
Sisk in the negative. Chair Sisk asked for comments and
Interim General Manager Genova commented he would have
staff put together a few bullet points on the Title VI
information. He will include this information in the e-mail he
is preparing for the Board.
Director Menten remembered a memo from Scott Reed
regarding a breakdown of private and public entities in the
program; she would like to review those numbers again. She
also asked about the survey sent to stakeholders last Friday
and asked if she could get a copy of the questions. Director
Menten asked Interim General Manager Genova if we were
expecting a large crowd for public participation at the Board
Meeting. Interim General Manager Genova indicated he
thought public participation would be heavy but he did not
anticipate it being as extensive as the Fare Study. Director
Menten commented that she did not agree with allowing
elected officials speak first as other constituents were taking
time away from their businesses and families as well. Chair
Sisk took the opportunity to commend Director Menten on
her success as Acting Chair of the committee meeting and
added Director Anderson did a great job as well as both
meetings were challenging. Interim General Manager Genova
confirmed with Barbara McManus that we would have the
extended meeting set up for Tuesday; she indicated that had
already been arranged. There was some discussion regarding
how some of the EcoPass groups are determined. Chair Sisk
reviewed the structure of the Boulder downtown business
association as an example, which is made up of restaurant
workers, retail staffing etc. and subsidized by parking
revenue. Director Hoy commented that the outreach process
is important to our current stakeholders. Chair Sisk said the
outreach conversation had happened in committee meeting
and would like to move forward. Director Folska made some
comments regarding Neighborhood EcoPasses and cited
some breakdowns in one of the Boulder communities which
included City of Boulder contributions. She asked for further

analysis in the future. Chair Sisk reminded the committee
that the Neighborhood EcoPass program will be remaining at
the 13.3% increase. Interim General Manager Genova
indicated he would get the requested information back to the
Directors. Chair Sisk asked for any additional questions.
Chair Sisk moved on to the recommendation of SumTotal
Systems contract increase. Interim General Manager Genova
spoke to some language changes that would need to be
clarified regarding the time clock component of the system.
He explained they do not actually punch cards but they use
the hardware to scan their RTD personal ID card, which
captures the information for the back office. The back office
structure is very complex and breaks out mechanics,
operators, cleaning staff and shift pay rates, shift
differentials, etc. Chair Sisk asked what the vote was on
this item. Interim General Manager Genova clarified the vote
was 12 – 2 with Directors Lasater and Solano in the
negative.
Chair Sisk asked if there was any discussion about the InFax
Contract Authorization. Interim General Manager Genova
clarified that the current procurement is only for the
Programmable Information Displays (PIDs). He would work
with staff to research information regarding the bi-lingual and
speaking functionality. He indicated split this into 2 areas:
(1) the technical side and what are the current capabilities for
audio and bi-lingual, if any, and (2) what hardware upgrades
would be needed for this functionality along with the
estimated cost. Staff will review what is needed to
implement these options. Some other questions that are
more difficult to answer are does the organization want to do
audio announcements and have information in other
languages. Interim General Manager Genova spoke to a
group he has appointed to look at how, if at all, we as an
organization would like to proceed. The team is comprised
of the following representation: legal, Ed Neuberg, ADA
Manager, Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, and others.
Chair Sisk clarified the approval of this item is only for the
contract increase for the PIDs. Any additional capabilities
added would require addition of scope and dollars.
Director Menten asked Interim General Manager Genova to
provide a current breakdown of language statistics for

Denver. Director Hoy raised the question of how do you
make a distinction between understanding a language and
speaking a language and how do you decide what may or
may not be effective. Chair Sisk said moving forward that
minimally the functionality should be ADA compliant.
Director Menten clarified there would be no amendment for
these upgrades made at the Board Meeting on Tuesday.
Vote on
motion:

The Committee approved moving the agenda as
is to the Board meeting on September 15, 2015.



Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

B.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2015 Appointment of Trustees to the RTD
Pension Trust and Defined Contribution Plan


Recommended Action
C.

Purchase Additional Seventeen (17) Light

Rail Vehicles

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to enter
into a contract with Siemens to purchase an additional seventeen (17) Light Rail
Vehicles and spare parts, at a cost not too exceed $64.5 million.
D.

Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approves an 18.3 percent price increase for Business EcoPass
and a 13.3 percent price increase for Neighborhood EcoPass. These price increases
are for 2016 contracts. In addition, it is recommended that the current $2.50 DIA
surcharge be eliminated for both the Business EcoPass and Neighborhood EcoPass
programs.
E.

Approval of SumTotal Systems Contract Increase

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to

execute all documents necessary to amend the SumTotal Systems, LLC (Contract
Number 14D0002) to increase by $290,933.23 the contract amount not-to-exceed
limit from $343,003.80 to a total contract amount of $633,937.03.
F.

Approval of InFax Contract Authorization

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to execute a five-year contract with Infax,
Incorporated (Contract Number 15FH003) in the amount of $1,788,655.39.

IV.

Board Meeting Protocols
Chair Sisk spoke to the fact that this had been put together some time ago but was never
brought forward. Some questions brought up by Director Lubow prompted a new look at
this policy, which was completed after meetings with Chair Sisk and Interim General
Manager Genova. After careful consideration, a few additions and changes produced the
draft document you have before you. Chair Sisk added it is difficult to manage events
sponsored by outside groups. In this document we outline what we would like to see, but
sometimes we have to realize we are not hosting but being hosted. In some cases at
specific events it is appropriate for the Chair to speak, but we need to always recognize
the District and other Directors present. Chair Sisk noted this is a particularly important
document to be in place with all of the openings scheduled in 2016.
Director Bagley requested to see the original and redline version of this document. Chair
Sisk absolutely agreed. Interim General Manager Genova explained this was a guideline
produced by Pauletta Tonilas and was never formally approved. He recognized that very
little has changed from the original. Chair Sisk appreciated this being brought forward and
it will help all the Directors and staff moving forward. Director Bagley stated the issue for
him is that this was, not and is not, currently a Board policy. He said anything that has
happened to date was done appropriately. He understands Chair Sisk and Director Lubow
have reviewed the document but it disturbs him that no other Board member has seen or
had input on this document. He requested to see a full redline copy of the document.
Chair Sisk explained this is why the policy will go to committee for review of the full
Board. Director Folska added this is the first time any of the Board members have seen
this document and looks forward in doing a full review with proper changes to take place
before final approval.

V.

Other Matters
Interim General Manager Genova spoke to the following


RTD Bus Roadeo is scheduled for September 12th at 6:00AM and he planned on
attending mid-morning through the awards luncheon. He added this is a great

event for employees and their families. Chair Sisk added that the following
Board members would be attending: Directors Bagley, Francone and Tobiassen.


The represented Health & Welfare Trust has been having issues in paying its bills
and has gone through all their reserves. We have been working with the trust to
resolve some of the issues as well as working with the actuarial in modeling
some changes with the plan such as deductibles and co-pays. Director Menten
asked if the service carriers will change. Interim General Manager Genova said
they are looking at all options to help the plan become solvent. Chair Sisk asked
is staff will be coming to the Board for additional funds this year. Interim
General Manager Genova indicated they would not.



In conjunction with the US 36 BRT openings, staff is looking to implement a
single change instead of multiple changes to routes at opening. Staff is working
with the external stakeholders this week to determine the best way to approach
the service change and opening of the BRT.



Director Bagley made the committee aware that Amanda Chilton, the citizen
who attended and interrupted the GM Oversight and Performance Committee
meeting as well as other meetings, was arrested and will be on trial October
14th. He said that he, as the person who filed the complaint, and staff will be
attending the proceedings. He will be briefing with Marla Lien later today and
will keep the committee up to date. Chair Sisk thanked him for his commitment.



Director Bagley brought up his continued interest in Video recording of all
meetings. Since this was not successful in moving forward he wanted to let the
committee know he is working with Scott Reed in determining what it would
take and what the cost would be to move forward. Once this is complete he
will bring it back to committee. Director Folska asked if this would be audio and
video. Director Bagley responded that he did not know what the outcome
would be to this research. Director Menten added that a security video system
had been added to R, T & D and wondered if that system be utilized for this
purpose. Director Hoy said that Adams County Courthouse just added a new
system. He also said a single camera system would be enough. Director Bagley
noted most elected bodies have this capability at this point. Interim General
Manager Genova said the camera in the Board Conference Room and R, T & D
are always running and tape over themselves unless they are needed because of
an incident. He would ask staff to see if the capabilities of the current video
system could work. Chair Sisk asked to look at this process holistically and
come back to the committee.



Chair Sisk let the committee know that Kenn Harden pleaded guilty to a charge
in federal district court and the trial was cancelled. He was charged but we do
not know what the charge was.

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 1:00 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

