Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 10, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

Action Item: Pension Trust Reappointments RTD Board Resolution

III.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review

IV.

Board Meeting Protocols

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - September 15, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen
VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 18, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.
B.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2015 Appointment of Trustees to the RTD
Pension Trust and Defined Contribution Plan
XIII.

Recommended Action
C.

Purchase Additional Seventeen (17) Light

Rail Vehicles

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to enter
into a contract with Siemens to purchase an additional seventeen (17) Light Rail
Vehicles and spare parts, at a cost not too exceed $64.5 million.
D.

Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approves an 18.3 percent price increase for Business EcoPass
and a 13.3 percent price increase for Neighborhood EcoPass. These price increases
are for 2016 contracts. In addition, it is recommended that the current $2.50 DIA
surcharge be eliminated for both the Business EcoPass and Neighborhood EcoPass
programs.
E.

Approval of SumTotal Systems Contract Increase

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to

execute all documents necessary to amend the SumTotal Systems, LLC (Contract
Number 14D0002) to increase by $290,933.23 the contract amount not-to-exceed
limit from $343,003.80 to a total contract amount of $633,937.03.
F.

Approval of InFax Contract Authorization

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to execute a five-year contract with Infax,
Incorporated (Contract Number 15FH003) in the amount of $1,788,655.39.
XIV.

Executive Session

XV.

Old Business

XVI.

New Business

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.2.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: September 3, 2015

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Director

GM

Date:

September 2, 2015

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015

Subject:

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2015
Appointment of Trustees to the RTD
Pension Trust and Defined Contribution Plan

Resolution
RECOMMENDED ACTION

Prepared by:
Paula Perdue, Executive Director

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.2.1

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION No. _____ SERIES OF 2015
APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES TO THE RTD PENSION TRUST AND DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
PLAN

Whereas, RTD maintains the RTD Pension Plan and Trust for salaried employees hired
by RTD before January 1, 2008 and the RTD Defined Contribution Plan and Trust (the Trusts)
for employees hired on or after January 1, 2008; and,
Whereas, RTD Board Directors and salaried staff serve as trustees for the Trusts; and,
Whereas on December 16, 2008 the RTD Board of Directory by Resolution No. 19
Series of 2008 amended Section 7.01 of the RTD Pension Trust regarding appointment of
Trustees and provided that each Trustee who is a member of the Board of Directors of RTD shall
serve a term concurrent with his or her elected term, and one senior management and one middle
management Trustee shall each serve a three year, and one senior management and one middle
Trustee shall each serve a two year term; and
Whereas on January 8, 2008 the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 1
Series of 2008 providing that a screening committee composed of the Board Chair, the Chair of
the Salaried Employee Pension Trust Fund and the Finance Chair will screen applications from
the middle management salaried Employee Class and the senior management salaried employee
calls and will bring recommendations back to the Board; and,
Whereas on November 10, 2010 Resolution No 27 series of 2010, the Board made
additional modifications to state that for reappointment of trustees who have served satisfactorily
and in whose education the Trusts have made substantial investments, it is not necessary to seek
applications for renewal and the application process established by the RTD Board of Directors
in 2008 will be used on those occasions when the Board finds it necessary or appropriate to
appoint new salaried trustees to the Trusts and
Whereas Scott Reed and Lou Ha are a senior management trustee and a middle
management trustee each serving two year terms; and,
Whereas, the terms for Lou Ha and Scott Reed will expire on 12/31/2015, each of whom
has provided beneficial service to the Trusts; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT
1. The RTD Board of Directors wishes to re-appoint Lou Ha and Scott Reed to new two
year terms that will expire on 12-31-2017.

Packet Pg. 5

1.2.1

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District this 15th
day of September, 2015.

______________________
Jeff Walker

_____________________
Chuck Sisk

Secretary

Chair

For information purposes:
Name of Trustee
Judy Lubow

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2016

Tom Tobiassen

12/31/2016

Scott Reed

12/31/2017

Marla Lien

12/31/2017

Sylvia Francis

12/31/2017

Lou Ha

12/31/2017

Heather Copp, CFO

Permanent Member

Packet Pg. 6

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 2, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

September 1, 2015

Subject:

Approval of Investment Policy

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.
BACKGROUND:
The Policy specifies the practices and procedures that pertain to the investment of RTD’s operating and
reserve funds. The Board last approved modifications to the Policy in November 2014. Section 10 of
the Policy states “The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the
policy, denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.”
DISCUSSION:
Staff solicited the expertise, knowledge and recommendations of its investment advisor in reviewing the
current Policy. No changes are recommended this year other than updating some staff titles to reflect
the current organization chart.
The purpose of the Investment Policy (the “Policy”) of the Regional Transportation District ("RTD") is to
specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent and systematic program for investments in
RTD’s operating and reserve funds. The Policy also provides for the investment of bond proceeds that
are authorized through bond resolutions or indentures of trust.
By following best practices with respect to the management of public funds, the primary objectives of
RTD’s Investment Policy in order of priority are: 1) safety of principal, 2) sufficient liquidity to meet
known cash flow requirements, and 3) yield (achieving a market rate of return). Although RTD must
legally follow the investment parameters dictated by Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S. 24-75-601.1) it
has previously made a policy decision to implement its investment program in a more conservative
manner than is dictated by state statute through imposing stricter diversification limits.
A final version of the recommended policy is attached
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The Policy presents no negative financial impacts to RTD.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. The Board may authorize the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached. This is the
recommended alternative.

Packet Pg. 7

2.12.A

2. The Board may further revise the Policy.
ATTACHMENTS:


Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (DOC)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

Investment Policy Statement
Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

2.12.A.a

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.A.a

Section

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

Table of Contents

Page

1.

Purpose ............................................................................1

2.

Scope ...............................................................................1

3.

Objectives ........................................................................1

4.

Standards of Care ............................................................2

5.

Authorized Investments ...................................................3

6.

Investment Parameters ....................................................7

7.

Safekeeping and Custody ................................................8

8.

Reporting Requirements ..................................................8

9.

Performance Standards ....................................................8

10.

Investment Policy Review ...............................................9

11.

RTD Investment Policy Summary ................................10

12.

Investment Policy Review & Approval.........................11

Appendix

Appendix 1- Authorized Personnel ...........................................12

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.A.a

Regional Transportation District
Investment Policy Statement

The purpose of this document is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent and
systematic program for investment transactions involving operating and reserve funds of the
Regional Transportation District ("RTD").
2. SCOPE
This investment policy ("Policy") applies to investment of all operating and reserve funds of the
RTD (collectively, the “Portfolio").
This Policy shall not restrict the ability of RTD to invest proceeds from the issuance of RTD
securities in financial obligations permitted through board-approved bond resolutions or
indentures of trust pursuant to which the securities were issued. The standards of care dictated
for investments of other RTD funds shall also pertain to the investment of such proceeds.
3. OBJECTIVES
The objectives, in priority order, of the RTD's investment activities shall be:
3.1 Safety
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments of RTD
will be made in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the Portfolio. To
attain this objective, RTD will endeavor to mitigate credit and interest rate risks.
Credit Risk: RTD will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by:



Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in the Authorized Investments
section of this Policy.
Diversifying the Portfolio in accordance with Policy limits in order to minimize the
potential for losses from any one type of security or any one individual issuer.

Interest Rate Risk: RTD will minimize interest rate risk, which is the risk that the market
value of securities in the Portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:


Maintaining Portfolio duration appropriate to the cash flow requirements of RTD,
thereby reducing the likelihood that securities would need to be sold on the open
market prior to maturity.

1
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

1. PURPOSE

2.12.A.a

3.2 Liquidity
The Portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to enable RTD to meet all cash flow requirements
which might be reasonably anticipated. This will be achieved through maturity diversification
and purchases of securities that have an established secondary market.

The Portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints, liquidity
needs, and cash flow characteristics of the Portfolio.
4. STANDARDS OF CARE
4.1 Prudence
All RTD officers and employees involved in the investment of RTD funds, along with any
external investment advisors, shall adhere to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor”
standard to insure that:
“When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing
public funds, a trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing, including, but not limited to, the general economic
conditions and the anticipated needs of the agency, that a prudent person acting in a like
capacity and familiar with those matters would use in the conduct of funds of a like
character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain the liquidity needs
of the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual
investments as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by
law."
RTD shall recognize that no investment is totally riskless and that the investment activities of
RTD are a matter of public record. Accordingly, it recognizes that occasional measured losses
are inevitable in a diversified portfolio and shall be considered within the context of the overall
Portfolio’s return, provided that adequate diversification has been implemented, and that the sale
of a security is in the best long-term interest of RTD.
Authorized investment personnel acting in accordance with this Policy and exercising due
diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely fashion
and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
4.2 Delegation of Authority
RTD is granted legislative authority to invest its funds pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes,
Section 32-9-119. Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to

2
Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

3.3 Yield

2.12.A.a

the General Manager and his designees. The General Manager’s designee will hereinafter be
referred to as the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).

While it is understood that the procedures and trading counterparties of a contracted investment
adviser may differ from those of RTD, contracted investment advisers must maintain internal
controls and compliance systems at least as extensive as those of the RTD in order to assure
adequate protection of RTD assets in keeping with the standards of prudence outlined below.
4.3 Investment Procedures
The CFO shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment program,
consistent with this Policy, which shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this Policy and the internal procedures established by the
CFO. Persons who are authorized to transact investment business and wire funds on behalf of
RTD are listed in Appendix 1 to this policy.
4.4 Internal Controls
The CFO shall establish a system of internal controls, which shall be reviewed annually. The
controls shall be designed to prevent loss of funds due to fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by employees of RTD.
4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Investment activities shall be performed in accordance with RTD’s Code of Ethics and other
policies of RTD. Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution of the investment
program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the General Manager any material financial interests in
financial institutions that conduct business with RTD, and they shall further disclose any large
personal/financial/investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Portfolio.
Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of RTD
particularly with regard to the timing of purchases or sales.
5. AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
Authorized investments for RTD funds are specifically listed below. RTD recognizes that
investment risk can result from issuer defaults, market price changes or various technical
impediments leading to diminished liquidity or loss of capital. Portfolio risk management and
diversification are employed as a way to minimize the risks inherent in investing.
3
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

RTD may, in its discretion, contract with one or more investment advisers, registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to manage a
portion of its Portfolio assets. Any such advisor shall comply with this Policy and such other
written instructions as provided by RTD.

2.12.A.a

Maturity Restrictions: Maturity restrictions shall be calculated from settlement date to maturity
date. Portfolio percentage restrictions by security type and issuer are applicable only on the date
of purchase of the investment.
Sector Diversification: The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the
following investment types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time
Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposit and Banker's Acceptances.
1. U.S. Treasury Obligations. Obligations in the form of bills, notes, bonds or certificates
of indebtedness backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America.
100% of the Portfolio may be invested in U.S. Treasury Obligations. The maximum
maturity for investments in U.S. Treasury Obligations shall be limited to five years.
2. Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities: Obligations, participations or other
instruments of any Federal agency, instrumentality or United States governmentsponsored enterprise as described in CRS 24-75-601.1(1)(b) (an “Agency” or
“Agencies”). Such securities shall be rated in one of the two highest rating categories (as
described above in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more than
75% of the Portfolio may be invested in Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities,
with no more than 25% being invested in a single issuer. Subordinate debt of any issuer
is not authorized. The maximum maturity for investments in Federal Agency and
Instrumentality Securities shall be limited to five years.
Authorized Federal Instrumentalities include, but may not be limited to:






Federal Home Loan Bank
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Federal National Mortgage Association
Federal Farm Credit Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)

3. Municipal Bonds. General Obligation Bonds and Revenue Obligation Bonds of state or
local governments. Such obligations of Colorado (or any political subdivision, institution,
department, agency, instrumentality, or authority of the state) shall be rated in one of the
three highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs. Such obligations of any other governmental entity shall be rated in one of the
4
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

Credit Criteria: Credit criteria listed in this section refer to the credit rating at the time the
security is purchased. Rating categories defined by nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations (“NRSROs”) include intermediate rating categories. For example, the second
highest rating category (“AA”) includes bonds rated AA+, AA and AA- for Standard & Poor's
and Fitch, and Aa1, Aa2 and Aa3 for Moody's Investors Service. In the event that an issuer or
security is downgraded below the minimum rating level for any specific security that is held in
the Portfolio, the CFO will review the exposure of that security holding and will determine if it is
advisable to sell such holding.

2.12.A.a

two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs.

Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds which are secured by an escrow of U.S. Treasury
securities or State and Local Government Series securities, shall be rated in one of the
two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by a NRSRO.
No more than 40% of the Portfolio may be invested in Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds
and no more than 5% may be invested with a single issuer.
With the exception of Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds described above, no more than
20% of the Portfolio may be invested in Municipal Bonds with no more than 3% of the
Portfolio invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
Municipal Bonds shall be limited to five years.
4. Corporate Bonds. Debt securities issued by corporations or financial institutions
organized and operating in the United States. Eligible corporate bonds shall be rated in
one of the two highest categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least
two NRSROs. No more than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in corporate bonds
and no more than 3% may be invested with a single corporation; notwithstanding the
book value limits of 24-75-601.1(1)(m). The maximum maturity for investments in
corporate bonds shall be limited to three years.
5. Commercial paper. Commercial paper issued by a corporation or bank that is organized
and operated within the United States. Investments in commercial paper must carry at
least two credit ratings from any NRSRO and both must be at least “A-1”, “P1” or “F1”.
Investments in commercial paper may not exceed 40% of the Portfolio and no more than
3% may be invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
commercial paper is 270 days.
6. Time Deposits/ Time Certificates of Deposit (CDs). Time Deposits/Time Certificates of
Deposit (CDs ) issued by a nationally or state-chartered bank or a state or federal savings
and loan association or by a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible certificates
of deposit shall be rated in one of the two highest categories (as described in the Credit
Criteria section) by a NRSRO. CDs shall be exempted from rating requirements if the
CDs are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
For CDs in amounts in excess of the FDIC limit, the CD amount must be collateralized in
accordance with the Public Deposit Protection Act. No more than 10% of the Portfolio
may be invested in securities described in this investment category. No more than 3% of
the Portfolio may be invested in CDs of a single institution. The maximum maturity for
investments in CDs shall be limited to one year.

5
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

For short term or variable rate instruments ("Short Term Municipal Bonds"), the
securities must be rated at least “A-1”, “MIG 1”, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO.

2.12.A.a

8. Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase Agreements concerning U.S. Treasury and agency
securities listed in items (1) or (2) above. Repurchase agreement counterparties must be
Primary Government Securities Dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York and shall have either a) a long term rating in one of the two highest categories by a
NRSRO (as described in the Credit Criteria section), or b) short term ratings not less than
“A1”, “P1” or “F1” by any NRSRO.
The market value of collateral securities shall be marked-to-market daily. RTD shall have
specific written agreements with each firm with which it enters into repurchase
agreements.
No more than 50% of the Portfolio may be invested in repurchase agreements and no
more than 10% may be invested with a single counterparty. The maximum maturity for a
repurchase agreement shall be limited to 90 days.
9. Money Market Funds. Shares of beneficial interest issued by diversified management
companies that are money market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and meeting the maturity
requirements specified in rule 2a-7 of that Act. To be eligible for investment, these
companies shall have either: (i) attained the highest ranking or the highest letter and
numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs or (ii) assets under management of
one billion dollars or more ($1,000,000,000). The investment policies of any such fund
shall include seeking to maintain a constant share price. Additionally, the purchase price
of shares of beneficial interest shall not include any commission that these companies
may charge. A maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in money market
funds with a single fund constituting no more that 50% of the Portfolio.
10. Local Government Investment Pools. Any interest in a local government investment
pool organized under CRS 24-75-701 et. seq. To be eligible for investment, a local
government investment pool shall have the highest ranking or the highest letter and
numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs. A maximum of 100% of the
Portfolio may be invested in local government investment pools with a single pool
constituting no more than 50% of the Portfolio.

6
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

7. Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs). Bills of exchange or time drafts that are drawn on and
accepted by a commercial bank. Eligible BAs shall be rated in one of the two highest
categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more
than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in BAs and no more than 3% may be invested
with a single institution. The maximum maturity for investments in BAs shall be limited
to one year.

2.12.A.a

6. INVESTMENT PARAMETERS

RTD does not make investments for the purpose of trading or speculation, but, rather, with the
prevalent intent to hold securities to maturity. The prohibition of speculative investment
precludes pursuit of profit through unusual risk or conjectural fluctuations in market prices.
However, fluctuations in market rates or changes in credit quality may produce situations where
securities may be sold at a nominal loss in order to mitigate further erosion of principal or to
reinvest proceeds of sale in securities that will out-perform the original investment.
6.2 Competitive Bidding
A record shall be maintained of all bids and offers for securities transactions to support RTD’s
competitive pricing process. Relative offerings shall not be required in the purchase of
obligations at their initial auction or offering. Typically, awards will be made to the bidder
offering the highest effective yield consistent with the Policy: however, transaction costs,
diversification requirements, extraordinary events and other factors may be considered when
awarding investments.
6.3 Portfolio Duration
The maturity of the securities in the Portfolio shall be managed with respect to the cash flow
needs of RTD and the Portfolio shall be managed to maintain a duration of three years or less.
6.4 Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions
RTD will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment services and it
shall be the policy of RTD to purchase securities only from those authorized institutions and
firms. Trading counterparties shall be limited to (i) primary dealers reporting to the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, or (ii) broker/dealers that qualify under Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c3-1 (uniform net capital rule).
6.5 Authorized Investment Advisors
RTD may engage the services of one or more professional investment advisory firms to assist in
the management of the Portfolio. Such investment advisors may be granted discretion to
purchase and sell investment securities in accordance with this Policy and may utilize their own
approved list of broker/dealers. Such firms must be authorized to conduct business in the State
of Colorado and shall be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

7
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

6.1 Sale of Securities

2.12.A.a

7. SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY

With the exception of collateral under repurchase agreements (discussed below), all investment
securities purchased shall be held in a safekeeping account or trust custody account at a
designated third party custodian. For safekeeping accounts, the institution shall issue a
safekeeping receipt for each security, listing the specific instrument, par value, rate, CUSIP and
any other pertinent information. In addition, the safekeeping or trust custody institutions shall
provide a statement on at least a monthly basis listing all securities held in account, including
book value and market value of holdings at month-end.
For collateral (purchased securities) under repurchase agreements, RTD may utilize tri-party
repurchase agreements with an acceptable third-party custodian provided that RTD is satisfied
that it has perfected interest in the securities used as collateral, and that RTD has a properly
executed tri-party agreement.
7.2 Delivery vs. Payment
All investment transactions will be executed on a delivery versus payment basis.
8. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Investment reports shall be prepared on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Transaction
summaries shall be maintained and available in the office of the CFO or other authorized
investment personnel. Quarterly investment reports shall be submitted to the Board of Directors
and shall outline RTD’s total investment return and compare the Portfolio’s performance to a
publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics.
Within 120 days of the end of RTD’s fiscal year, a comprehensive report on RTD’s investment
program and investment activity shall be prepared for the Board of Directors. The annual report
shall include quarterly comparisons of investment return and may suggest improvements that
might be made in the investment program. Such annual report shall include any other item of
significance which may enhance the understanding of the investment program. Each investment
advisor shall submit like reports in a timely manner based on the respective terms of each
contract and agreement
All securities holdings reports for RTD shall disclose the maximum maturity liability to RTD
(the stated maturity) as well as the first call date of each callable security held.
9. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
RTD's Portfolio is managed with the objective of obtaining a market rate of return,
commensurate with identified risk constraints and cash flow characteristics. Because the
composition of the Portfolio fluctuates, depending on market and credit conditions, various
indices may be used to monitor investment performance.
8
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

7.1 Safekeeping and custody

2.12.A.a

RTD recognizes that bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with Section 1.148 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, related to arbitrage rebate, which limits the investment returns
which may be achieved or retained by RTD on such proceeds investments. For purposes of this
Policy “bond proceeds” shall mean proceeds from the issuance of bonds, certificates of
participation or other financial securities issued by RTD.
10. INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the Policy,
denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.

9
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

The current board-approved index for the liquidity tier of the Portfolio (cash and cash
equivalents) is the 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index as published by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. For the enhanced cash portion of the Portfolio (securities maturing between 90 days and
5 years and with a target duration of 1 year), the designated performance benchmark is the
Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.

2.12.A.a

11. RTD AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT SUMMARY
FOR A DETAILED

Security Type

Maximum
Portfolio %

Maximum
Issuer %

Maturity
Restrictions

Rating
Restrictions

U.S. Treasuries

100%

100%

5 years

N/A

75%

25%

5 years

AA

20%*

3%*

5 years

A

20%*

3%*

5 years

AA

20%*

3%*

5 years

“A-1” or
“MIG 1”

40%

5%

5 years

AA

Corporate Bonds

20%

3%

3 years

AA

Commercial Paper

40%

3%

270 days

“A-1/P1/F1”

Time Deposit/CD

10%

3%

1 year

AA

Bankers Acceptances

20%

3%

1 year

AA

Repurchase Agreements

50%

10%

90 days

AA

Money Market Funds

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

Local Government
Investment Pools

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

Federal Agencies and
Instrumentalities
Municipal Bonds,
of a Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
of a non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
Short Term
Municipal Bonds,
Pre-Refunded

* The aggregate exposure to such bonds may not exceed 20% of the Portfolio and no more than
3% of the portfolio may be invested with a single issuer.

10
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

THIS PAGE IS PROVIDED FOR SUMMARY PURPOSES ONLY.
DESCRIPTION PLEASE SEE AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.

2.12.A.a

12. INVESTMENT POLICY APPROVAL AND ADOPTION

Chief Financial Officer

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

Approved

Date

Adopted
Board of Directors

Chair

Date

Secretary

Date

11
Packet Pg. 21

2.12.A.a

Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
Investment Policy Statement
Appendix 1
Authorized Personnel

Attachment: Investment Policy FINAL 8-28-15 (2505 : Approval of Investment Policy)

The following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional
Transportation District (“RTD”):
General Manager
Chief Financial Officer
Sr. Manager of Debt and Investments
Controller
Sr. Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis

12
Packet Pg. 22

2.13.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 3, 2015

From:

Terry Emmons, Senior Manager

GM

Date:

September 3, 2015

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015

Subject:

Purchase Additional
Rail Vehicles

Seventeen

(17)

Light

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with Siemens to purchase an
additional seventeen (17) Light Rail Vehicles and spare parts, at a cost not too exceed $64.5 million.
BACKGROUND
At the November 25, 2014 board meeting, the RTD Board authorized staff to begin negotiations with
Siemens to purchase twelve (12) expansion Light Rail Vehicles at a cost not too exceed $48million.
The vehicle specification was being reviewed and updated in the spring of 2015. The number of
additional LRV’s has increased by seventeen (17) due to the increased level of ridership demands
(cars added to existing consists) and the additional I-225/SE corridor extensions. Based on ongoing
correspondence with Siemens, we are negotiating a price for twenty-nine (29) vehicles at less than
$4million per vehicle which is much better than the original price point at twelve (12) vehicles. RTD
can realize a significant savings which would be in the best interest of the District.
DISCUSSION
The RTD Capitol Planning Team has analyzed and re-evaluated the current and future projections of
the Light Rail fleet demand. The evaluation has determined a reduction in the spare ratio to 5% in Q4
of 2017 with the existing fleet and initial vehicle deliveries. The requested additional vehicles will
return the fleet to a 17% spare ratio by Q4 of 2018. This is short of the industry standard spare ratio
of 20%. In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service
Delivery, including Asset Management/State of Good Repair, Rail Operations requests to purchase a
total of twenty-nine (29) expansion Light Rail Vehicles in order to continue to provide the proper level
of service. Furthermore, adding these cars will provide the required number of spare vehicles needed
to properly maintain the existing fleet as it ages and preserves our service within the board-approved
service standards. Without the additional vehicles, RTD may be forced to open the new extensions
with lower service than has been projected. Each vehicle takes two (2) years to manufacture.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This acquisition is part of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) that was recently approved by the RTD
Board on August 18th, 2015. Funds are budgeted in years 2015 thru 2018. The funding for the
vehicles will be financed through the issuance of Certificates of Participation (COPS) that was
approved by the RTD Board in the July 28th, 2015 meeting. The COPS funding has been secured on
August 20th, 2015. Two (2) vehicles will be funded through Fastracks that has been recently
approved in the Annual Program Evaluations (APE). The remaining vehicles are funded through the
base system. Based on ongoing correspondence with Siemens, we are negotiating a price for twentynine (29) vehicles at less than $4million for each vehicle. RTD has included in this request the related
expenses, spare parts and a “Buy- America” audit, with on-site factory inspections during the vehicle
construction.

Packet Pg. 23

2.13.C

DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Siemens has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its
DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to finalize negotiations with Siemens to
execute a contract to purchase an additional seventeen (17) Light Rail vehicles in an amount
not to exceed the amount programmed in the SBP which is $64.5 million. This is the
recommended alternative.
2. Do not allow the General Manager to finalize negotiations with Siemens for the purchase of an
additional seventeen (17) Light Rail vehicles. This will delay the procurement process and
present a challenge to maintain the fleet, which is not in the best interest of the District.

LRVs required and fleet size

Prepared by: John W. Davis, Sr. Operations Budget Analyst
Phil Eberl, General Superintendent, Light Rail Maintenance

LRV Fleet Status By Year
250
200
150
100
50
0
2015

2016

2017
qtr1,2,
3

2017
qtr 4

2018
qtr1

2018
qtr 2

2018
qtr 3

2018
qtr 4

2035

Pull out LRVs

135

159

159

167

167

167

167

167

175

Total fleet

172

172

172

176

182

188

194

201

201

Required Percentage

78%

92%

92%

95%

92%

89%

86%

83%

87%

Packet Pg. 24

2.13.C

Prepared by:
Mike Smith, Senior Administrative Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 25

2.13.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 3, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

September 3, 2015

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015

Subject:

Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approves an 18.3 percent price increase for Business EcoPass and a 13.3 percent price increase for
Neighborhood EcoPass. These price increases are for 2016 contracts. In addition, it is recommended
that the current $2.50 DIA surcharge be eliminated for both the Business EcoPass and Neighborhood
EcoPass programs.
BACKGROUND
RTD staff has been working on an extensive Fare Study for the past year. The objective of the Fare
Study was to determine how to simplify RTD’s fare policies in an equitable and cost-effective manner to
better meet the needs of the District and its customers moving forward. In May 2015, the RTD Board of
Directors approved new fare policies that will go into effect on January 1, 2016. The new fare policies
adopted by the Board did not include any changes for pass program pricing.
The results of the Title VI equity analysis conducted as part of the May actions indicated that there were
Title VI concerns with the Business EcoPass program. Increases to Business and Neighborhood EcoPass
programs were not included in the recommendations that were adopted by the Board in May but staff
did communicate that commensurate price increases in the pass programs were assumed in the financial
projections and additional recommendations would be forthcoming.
Key members of the RTD Fare Study Task Force including several members of the Senior Leadership
Team began working closely with the Title VI Manager and General Counsel in May to better understand
the Title VI concerns related to the Business EcoPass program. This equity analysis suggested that
Business EcoPass riders are more likely to be non-minority or non-low income individuals than the RTD
ridership as a whole. In addition, the average per trip fare revenue generated from Business EcoPass was
less than the average fare paid by RTD passengers in general.
Therefore, the working group established the goal of developing a recommendation for Business EcoPass
pricing that would equalize the average fare paid among EcoPass riders and general RTD riders.
DISCUSSION
Staff described their current thinking to the Board in August which included a recommendation to
increase 2016 Business EcoPass contracts by 18.3 percent and Neighborhood EcoPass contracts by
14.4 percent. These price increases would result in EcoPass passengers having an average fare revenue
that was in line with the overall system average fare.
In addition, staff indicated that per the approach used to arrive at those increase levels it would make
sense to update the 2009 Board Policy for utilization based pricing of EcoPass with smart card data. The
2009 Board Policy is included as Attachment A. Per the methodology used to determine the percent

Packet Pg. 26

2.13.D

increase necessary to arrive at an average fare for EcoPass equal to the overall average fare, staff was
thinking that the 40 percent discount in the 2009 policy should be updated to 30 percent.
Staff then shared their thinking with stakeholders in advance of developing these final recommendations.
Many of the comments were focused on stakeholders feeling left out of the process. In addition, several
comments were provided that indicated there were other methods for analyzing pass program pricing
and how the increases should be related to the general fare increase.
Stakeholder feedback was considered in developing this final recommendation that includes an 18.3
percent price increase for Business EcoPass for 2016 contract and a 13.3 percent price increase for
neighborhood EcoPass. These increases will result in a projected average fare for Business EcoPass trips
that is equal to the average fare for all RTD passengers and will increase Neighborhood EcoPass pricing
in line with the overall fare increase adopted by the Board in May as Neighborhood EcoPass pricing was
not identified as having a current Title VI concern.
This recommendation does not include any changes to the 2009 Board Policy for future utilization based
pricing as staff is recommending that a 2016 Pass Program Working group be established. This working
group will include RTD staff as well as stakeholders from across the District. The working group will
define goals for pass programs as well as reevaluate the 2009 Board policy for utilization based pricing
to incorporate the new fare structure and average fare analysis once smart card tap data is available. In
addition, it is recommended that this group work closely with the Affordable Fares Task Force to better
understand the relationship between pass programs and the desire for more affordable income based
fares.
One of the concerns that we heard from stakeholders was that an 18.3 percent increase is a large
increase when the contracts are paid in full at the beginning of the year. To help alleviate these concerns
staff will introduce two new contract payment options that will give the businesses flexibility for making
payments over the course of the year. Businesses will be able to pay quarterly with the addition of a 1
percent administrative fee or pay semiannually with no additional fees.
Stakeholders also expressed concerns about the Neighborhood EcoPass prices increasing more than the
general fare increase. As noted above, since the original equity analysis did not identify concerns with
the Neighborhood EcoPass program, staff is recommending that the Neighborhood EcoPass contracts for
2016 be increased by the same percent as the general fare increase (13.3 percent). The new contract
payment options will also apply to Neighborhood EcoPass contracts.
As required by FTA for all fare changes, a Title VI equity analysis has been completed for the
recommendations included in this Board report. With the 18.3 percent increase for Business EcoPass and
the 13.3 percent increase for Neighborhood EcoPass, no Title VI equity concerns were found with the
recommended changes per the RTD Board adopted Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy.
The equity analysis will be submitted to FTA.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The fare policies adopted in May were forecast to generate enough revenue to meet the $131.3 million
revenue target identified for 2016 in the Board adopted Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Those revenue
forecasts included price increases for both the Business and Neighborhood EcoPass programs consistent
with the general fare increase. The current recommendation for Business EcoPass is to increase 2016
contracts by 18.3 percent instead of 13.3 percent. This additional increase in EcoPass pricing is
anticipated to generate approximately $1 million in additional farebox revenue.

Packet Pg. 27

2.13.D

ALTERNATIVES
1) Adopt an 18.3 percent price increase for Business EcoPass and a 13.3 percent price increase for
Neighborhood EcoPass for 2016 contracts. Eliminate the current $2.50 DIA surcharge from both the
Business and Neighborhood EcoPass programs. This is the recommended alternative.
2) Adopt an 18.3 percent price increase for Business EcoPass but phase it in over two years with a
13.3 percent price increase for 2016 contracts and an additional 4.4 percent price increase for 2017
contracts. Adopt a 13.3 percent price increase for Neighborhood EcoPass contracts all to be applied
in 2016. Eliminate the current $2.50 DIA surcharge from both the Business and Neighborhood
EcoPass programs. This is not recommended because it does not immediately address the Title VI
concerns regarding Business EcoPass passengers being more heavily subsidized than RTD riders in
general.
3) Adopt a 13.3 percent price increase for both Business and Neighborhood EcoPass for 2016
contracts. Eliminate the current $2.50 DIA surcharge from both the Business and Neighborhood
EcoPass programs. This is not recommended because it does not address the Title VI concerns
regarding Business EcoPass passengers being more heavily subsidized than RTD riders in general.
ATTACHMENTS:


RTD Pass Program Attachment A (PDF)



Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 28

2.13.D.a

BACKGROUND INFORMATION

To:

Phillip A. Washington, Interim General Manager

Date:

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager,
Customer and Contracted Services

GM

Date:

October 6, 2009

Board Meeting Date: 10/20/2009

Subject:

Recommendations from Pass Program Committee

ACTION X

DISCUSSION

INFO

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board accept the
recommendations of the RTD Pass Committee for pricing of the Eco Pass and Neighborhood Pass
programs as outlined in Attachments A and B, to be implemented following the availability of
utilization data from smart cards. In addition, lift the current moratorium on new and expanded
contracts in the Neighborhood Pass program as described in Attachment B.
BACKGROUND
The RTD Pass Program Committee began meeting in May 2009. The purpose of the committee was
to develop viable pricing formulas for RTD Eco Pass and Neighborhood pass programs to be used at
such time as smart card data is available to provide actual utilization data. The committee was
comprised of four members of the RTD Board and four external representatives. The committee
met six times, with the last meeting held on September 30.
A joint staff working group, comprised of representatives from RTD, the city of Boulder, Boulder
County and the University of Colorado, was charged with developing a proposed pricing structure
for the business Eco Pass and the Neighborhood Pass programs that could be forwarded to the
Pass Program Committee for consideration.
DISCUSSION
The joint staff working group met a number of times to discuss the factors that should be
considered in pricing unlimited access pass programs as well as the appropriate level of discount
within RTD’s overall fare structure. After considerable discussion, the group developed a set of
recommendations for both the business Eco Pass and the Neighborhood Pass. Those
recommendations were forwarded to the Pass Program Committee and were endorsed by that
committee. The key recommendations for each program are outlined in Attachments A and B, along
with summaries of the key similarities and differences from the current pricing structure.

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT

2.13.D.a

FINANCIAL IMPACT

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommendations of the RTD Pass Committee for pricing of the Eco Pass and
Neighborhood Pass programs as outlined in Attachments A and B to be implemented following the
availability of utilization data from smart cards. In addition, lift the current moratorium on new and
expanded contracts in the Neighborhood Pass program as described in Attachment B. This is the
recommended action.
2. Do not accept the recommendations of the RTD Pass Committee for pricing of the Eco Pass and
Neighborhood Pass programs and direct staff to develop an alternative pricing recommendation.
Prepared by: Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager, Marketing

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

The financial impact of the proposed changes to pricing formulas for Eco Pass and Neighborhood
Pass will not be known until such time as utilization data from smart cards are available and used
for pricing the programs. In general, the pricing formulas as proposed will for the first time be
based on the value of service used by pass holders.

2.13.D.a

This proposed pricing structure as recommended by the RTD Pass Program Committee is consistent with
the two primary philosophies of the Eco Pass Program established by the committee: 1) that it is
financially sustainable to RTD, and 2) that it serves to increase transit ridership.
The pricing model proposed is a revenue based approach that used RTD’s existing fare structure and the
levels of discounts available through various fare media as the basis upon which the unlimited access
pass programs could be priced. The availability of ridership data through the use of smart cards will, for
the first time, give RTD the opportunity to price the Eco Pass Program based on actual ridership data.
A summary of the key recommendations and a broad overview of the primary similarities and
differences of the existing and proposed Eco Pass pricing structures are outlined below.
Key Recommendations
•
•
•

•

•

•
•

No changes to the Eco Pass pricing structure would be implemented until after adequate smart
card ridership data are available, unless there is a general RTD fare increase.
Continue to use the four current services level areas (SLA’s) as part of the pricing structure, but
use four levels of employer size (1-24, 25-99, 100-499 and 500+).
Continue to use a matrix of employer size and SLA to determine price. The value of trips taken
by all companies within a cell of the matrix will be used to determine the price for that cell. A 40
percent discount will be applied to the cash value of those trips which will be divided by the
total number of employees within that cell to determine a per employee price. This pricing
approach will be revisited for possible adjustments after three full years of smart card data are
available.
During the first two years of the new pricing structure, no company’s contract amount will
increase by more than 10 percent, unless there is a general fare increase. This limit does not
apply to contract minimums.
Contract minimums will use a blended rate that will use actual ridership data by service type
within an SLA to compute the cost of a hypothetical annual pass that reflects the actual
proportions of local, express and regional use. The contract minimum would be twice that
blended cost.
The $5 surcharge for trips to DIA will be eliminated when the new pricing structure is
implemented.
When the new pricing structure is implemented, call-n-Ride service areas will revert to SLA A,
except in cases where the 25+ trip threshold is met.

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

Attachment A
Business Eco Pass Pricing Recommendation
October 2009

2.13.D.a

Differences
• The existing pricing structure was developed in 1990 and was based on company location,
company size and estimated ridership. The proposed pricing structure will still use company
location and size, but will use smart card data to determine actual ridership and the value of
trips taken.
• The existing structure uses a pricing matrix that has 20 cells, representing four SLA’s and five
different ranges of company size. The proposed structure will still use four SLAs but will have
only four different ranges of company size.
• The proposed structure will use actual utilization data to determine the value of trips taken by
all employees of companies within a pricing cell. A 40% discount would then be applied to the
cash fare value of those trips. The result will then be divided by the total number of employees
in that pricing cell to determine the following year’s per employee rate. The 40% discount rate is
in line with discounts offered through other RTD pass products and reflects the benefits that
accrue to RTD from the Eco Pass Program.
• The current contract minimums are approximately the cost of one annual pass for local, express
or regional fares, depending on SLA. The proposed contract minimum will use a blended rate
that will use actual ridership data by service type within an SLA to compute the cost of a
hypothetical annual pass that reflects the actual proportions of local, express and regional use.
The contract minimum would be twice that blended cost.

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

Similarities
• Both the existing and proposed pricing structures use the underlying premise that all employees
within a company are paid for and all are eligible to receive an Eco Pass.
• Both pricing structures use the size of the employer and the employer’s location (called Service
Level Areas or SLAs) to determine pricing level.
• Both pricing structures have contract minimums.

2.13.D.a

This proposed pricing structure as recommended by the RTD Pass Program Committee is consistent with
the two primary philosophies of the Neighborhood Eco Pass Program established by the committee: 1)
that it is financially sustainable to RTD, and 2) that it serves to increase transit ridership.
The pricing model proposed is a revenue based approach that used RTD’s existing fare structure and the
levels of discounts available through various fare media as the basis upon which the unlimited access
pass programs could be priced. The availability of ridership data through the use of smart cards will, for
the first time, give RTD the opportunity to price the Neighborhood Eco Pass Program based on actual
ridership data.
A summary of the key recommendations and a broad overview of the primary similarities and
differences of the existing and proposed Neighborhood Eco Pass pricing structures are outlined below.
Key Recommendations
•

•
•

•

•

•
•
•

For neighborhoods currently participating in the program, no changes to the Neighborhood Eco
Pass pricing structure would be implemented until after adequate smart card ridership data are
available, unless there is a general RTD fare increase.
Neighborhoods will continue to be defined by contiguous blocks as the basis for pricing.
The value of trips taken by all residents within a contractually defined neighborhood will be
used as the basis to determine the following year’s price for that neighborhood. A 40 percent
discount will be applied to the cash value of those trips which will be divided by the total
number of households within that neighborhood to determine the per household price. This
pricing approach will be revisited for possible adjustments after three full years of smart card
data are available.
During the first two years of the new pricing structure, any increase to a neighborhood’s
contract price will be by no more than 33 percent of the difference between the smart card
calculated price and the pre smart card price, unless there is a general fare increase.
Contract minimums for each neighborhood will be set at $5,000 and a minimum of 40
households. Any existing neighborhood with less than 40 households will be grandfathered from
this requirement.
The $5 surcharge for trips to DIA will be eliminated when the new pricing structure is
implemented.
Prices for new neighborhood wishing to enter the program will be based a survey of existing
ridership patterns. The survey may be calibrated over time as smart card data are available.
Lift the moratorium on new or expanding neighborhoods in recognition of a $10,000 financial
contribution from the city of Boulder and the fact that smart card data will be available in future

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

Attachment B
Neighborhood Eco Pass Pricing Recommendation
October 2009

2.13.D.a

Similarities
• Both the existing and proposed pricing structures use the underlying premise that all residences
within a geographically defined neighborhood are paid for and all are eligible to receive a
Neighborhood Eco Pass.
• Under both the existing and proposed pricing structures, survey results will be used to establish
the first year price for a new neighborhood joining the program.
• Both pricing structures have contract minimums.
Differences
• The existing pricing structure within the city of Boulder was developed in 1999 and was based
on travel diary information. The proposed pricing structure will use smart card data to
determine actual ridership and the value of trips taken, apply a 40 percent discount to that
amount, then divide by the number of households in the neighborhood to determine the per
household rate. The 40% discount rate is in line with discounts offered through other RTD pass
products and reflects the benefits that accrue to RTD from the Eco Pass Program.
• The current contract minimums are $5,600 per neighborhood. The new contract minimums for
each neighborhood will be set at $5,000 and a minimum of 40 households. Any existing
neighborhood with less than 40 households will be grandfathered from this requirement.

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: RTD Pass Program Attachment A (2523 : Recommended EcoPass Pricing for 2016)

years. RTD will survey new and expanding neighborhoods and the per household price will be
the higher of the survey result or the existing rate.

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

FARE STUDY
ECOPASS RECOMMENDATION
Operations & Customer Service Committee
September 8, 2015

Packet Pg. 35

Fare Study Process
• Summer 2014: Fare Study Initiated
– First phase was focused on fare structure
– Pricing was incorporated as part of the
recommendations for public hearings

• Spring 2015: Public Hearings
– Included price increase for EcoPass consistent
with the general fare increase

• May 2015: Board Action on Structure & Level
– Title VI concerns were identified for Business
EcoPass as part of the equity analysis
– Board action did not include EcoPass pricing

• September 2015: Recommendation for 2016
EcoPass pricing that reduces Title VI risk
2
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Stakeholder Outreach
• 36 Commuting Solutions

• Douglas County

• City of Arvada

• Downtown Denver Partnership

• AARP

• DRCOG

• Arapahoe County LCC

• eGo Car Share

• Arc of Aurora

• FRESC/AFTF

• Boulder Chamber of Commerce

• Jeffco LLC

• Boulder County

• City of Louisville

• City of Boulder

• Livable Places Consulting

• Colorado Coalition for the Homeless • Mi Casa Resource Center
• Colorado Cross Disability Coalition

• Mile High Connects

• CU Boulder

• Servicios de la raza

• CWEE

• Stapleton Foundation

• City and County of Denver

• City of Thornton

• Denver South EDP

• US 36 Mayors/Commissioners Coalition
3
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Stakeholder Feedback
• Recognition that EcoPass is a good program
coupled with concern that increasing the price
could result in fewer participating
neighborhoods and businesses
• Frustration that tap data are not available
• Concern that there has not been enough
outreach and stakeholder involvement in
developing the recommendations
• Questions about the data and math that were
used to develop the recommendations
• Concern that companies have not budgeted
for an 18 percent increase
4

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Stakeholder Feedback (cont)
• Desire for an addition to the Business EcoPass
matrix to allow for a master contract for lowwage businesses
• Opportunities to include changes to the
Neighborhood EcoPass program as part of the
continued affordable fares discussions
• The entire fare study seems like a complicated
process that was broken into individual pieces
– A summary of all of the fare policies and how they
fit together would be helpful when the process is
complete
5
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Recommendation for 2016
Business EcoPass Contracts
• Increase Business EcoPass contracts by 18.3
percent
– Results in a projected average fare for EcoPass
passengers that is equivalent to the overall
average fare projected for 2016
– EcoPass riders will not be more heavily subsidized
than other passengers

• Eliminate $2.50 upgrade charge for trips to and
from DIA
• No changes to SLA boundaries to incorporate
new lines until 2017 contracts
6
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Recommended 2016 Contract
Prices for Business EcoPass
PRICE PER EMPLOYEE PER YEAR
Service
Level
Area

A
B
C
D

Employees

Contract
Minimum Per
Year

1-24

25-249

250-999

1,000-1,999

2,000+

employees

employees

employees

employees

employees

old

old

old

old

old

old

new

1-10

$

11-20

$ 1,944 $ 2,299

21+

$ 2,915 $ 3,448

1-10

$ 1,782 $ 2,108

11-20

$ 3,563 $ 4,215

21+

$ 5,344 $ 6,321

1-10

$ 2,429 $ 2,873

11-20

$ 4,859 $ 5,747

21+

$ 7,287 $ 8,619

1-10

$ 2,429 $ 2,873

11-20

$ 4,859 $ 5,747

21+

$ 7,287 $ 8,619

new

new

new

new

new

972 $ 1,150

$ 83 $ 98

$ 72 $ 85

$ 63 $ 75

$ 54 $ 64

$ 51 $ 60

$ 177 $ 209

$160 $189

$146 $ 173

$ 135 $160

$128 $151

$ 450 $ 532

$417 $493

$397 $ 470

$ 388 $459

$367 $434

$ 460 $ 544

$441 $522

$408 $ 483

$ 397 $470

$376 $445
7
Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Detail Regarding EcoPass Prices
• EcoPass contract prices have not gone up
since 2011
• The per employee price of an annual
EcoPass in the Downtown area is
comparable to providing a parking pass for
2 – 5 months
• Maximum EcoPass price well below the
federal limit of $1,560 per year per
employee transit pass tax exclusion of the
IRS Commuter Benefits program
8
Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Contract Payment Options
• Currently contracts are paid in full at the
beginning of the year
• Add two new contract payment options for
2016:
– Quarterly payments with an administrative
processing fee of 1%
– Semiannual payments with no additional
administrative processing fee

9
Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Recommendation for 2016
Neighborhood EcoPass Contracts
• Increase Neighborhood EcoPass contracts
by 13.3 percent consistent with the
general fare increase
• Eliminate $2.50 upgrade charge for trips to
and from DIA
• Make a minor update to the survey for new
neighborhoods
– Modify survey so pricing incorporates all
participants eligible for half fare discount
10
Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Title VI Equity Analysis
• A review of the fare equity analysis in May of 2015
revealed Title VI risks for the Business EcoPass
program
• This recommendation was developed considering
those risks
• Per FTA requirements and RTD Board Policy, this
EcoPass recommendation was analyzed for any
disproportionate adverse effect on minority and lowincome riders
• The analysis of EcoPass pricing with this
recommendation does not reveal a disproportionate
adverse effect
11
Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Recommendation for Future
EcoPass Pricing
• Begin pricing EcoPass contracts with
utilization data as soon as adequate smart
card data are available
• Re-evaluate the 2009 Board Policy for
utilization pricing as part of a Pass
Program Working Group that will include
stakeholders from across the District
• Goal for future pricing: average EcoPass
fare should be equivalent to the overall
average fare
12
Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Revenue Impact
• Fare policies adopted in May included an
assumption that EcoPass contracts would
increase by 13.3 percent
• Additional increase in Business EcoPass
contracts would result in approximately $1
million of additional fare revenue per year

13
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

Next Steps
• Send out 2016 contracts with new pricing
– Include payment options

• 2016: Convene RTD and Stakeholder Pass
Program Working Group to develop
recommendations for future pricing
– Define goals for pass programs
– Reevaluate 2009 Board Policy for utilization
pricing incorporating the new fare structure and
average fare analysis
– Coordinated effort with the Affordable Fares Task
Force discussions
14
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Fare Study EcoPass Sept Ops Committee FINAL 090215 (2523 : Recommended EcoPass

2.13.D.b

2.13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 2, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

September 1, 2015

Subject:

Approval
Increase

of

CFO/AGM,

SumTotal

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015
Systems

Contract

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to amend
the SumTotal Systems, LLC (Contract Number 14D0002) to increase by $290,933.23 the contract
amount not-to-exceed limit from $343,003.80 to a total contract amount of $633,937.03.
BACKGROUND
RTD’s current union payroll time tracking (Hardware and Software) system, TruTrack, is over ten-years
old and has passed its end-of-life. The TruTrack brand is now known as SumTotal. Because of its age
and operations, this system has presented a range of continued challenges to RTD:
 The current system is unstable, difficult to support and has had multiple outages, at times
occurring daily.
 Replacement hardware does not exist to continue to repair the onsite (RTD) hosted system.
 Replacement time clocks are no longer available.
 In the event of a catastrophic failure, a manual time tracking and payroll generation effort
spanning multiple work groups would be required.
Early in 2014 it was determined, in consultation with the Business Unit, that replacement of the existing
TruTrack system was absolutely necessary to assure the future ability to meet union payroll. There was
significant concern that the TruTrack system would not survive the length of time required for the
normal open procurement process. RTD’s union payroll structure is extremely complex and the existing
TruTrack system was configured to address all of these unique practices. In addition, there was a due
diligence review of available alternative technical solutions, concluding the cloud base SumTotal product
was the logical replacement system. With that, a sole sourced contract was advanced with SumTotal
(May 2014) to replace TruTrack with SumTotal’s new Workforce Management (WFM) hosted time
tracking system. The sole source was approved and the original bid was within the General Manager’s
contract authority. The project kicked-off July 30, 2014 with SumTotal project team arriving at RTD.
RTD’s union payroll system will be hosted at SumTotal’s datacenter. General information on this
service:
 Located in Columbus, Ohio
 Exceeds Tier IV facility requirements
 SSAE 16 certified operations; DOD and HIPAA certified and ISO 27001:2005 certified facility
 Internet connections to multiple Tier-1 ISP backbones
 Servers monitored every 5 minutes

Packet Pg. 49

2.13.E




Redundant high-capacity power supplies. UPS systems and standby diesel generators capable
of supporting the site indefinitely.
SumTotal hosts over 1,600 customers operating globally

SumTotal has an established security program that has had preliminary RTD review, further review is
underway and this will be followed by regular monitoring of this hosting service.
DISCUSSION
Late last year as the functional requirements were in development, it became apparent the “out-of-thebox” SumTotal system would not fully address the unique union payroll needs. In the spring of this
year, the project was stopped by RTD, pending confirmation that all needed functionality was fully
identified and documented, understood by the vendor and the initial and life-cycle costs to implement
were known. This extremely detailed effort included the staff from payroll, materials management, and
IT technical and business analyst staff. From this analysis, twenty-one unique customizations were
identified as necessary to provide for each element of the union agreement. To make these
customizations SumTotal submitted a requested contract modification for the additional funds. The
authority increase also addresses future maintenance expenses. If approved, the modifications will be
done during the fall, testing will be conducted late this year into early next year and with normal end-ofyear activities the go-live will be April of 2016.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The additional cost will be met by existing capital and operational budgets. These expenditures are not
a diversion from other efforts or assignments.
ALTERNATIVES
Three alternatives were considered:


Continue with Existing Contract and Accept the Completion Proposal
The current staff assigned by SumTotal has aggressively worked with RTD to understand and
document the complete set of requirements and needed outcomes. They provided a proposal to
bring closure to this deployment. In that the system is hosted in the cloud, RTD and SumTotal
will have a long-term relationship.
SumTotal will be responsible for maintaining the system and minimizing downtime of the system;
responsible for implementing a failover plan; with the hosted system RTD should realize
operational cost savings over the life of the system. SumTotal now understands the full breath
and complexity of RTD’s union payroll structure.



Terminate Contract and Pursue an Open Procurement for a Replacement System
This alternative would terminate the SumTotal contract. In all likelihood this would require
eighteen-months to two-years to procure, develop, and deploy a fully functional replacement
system. During this time, the RTD hosted TruTrack system will need to remain operational. This
could also be followed by legal action to recover some portion of expense from the unsuccessful
attempt at deploying the SumTotal system. e.g. return of time clocks.

Packet Pg. 50

2.13.E

During the procurement and implementation of the new system the legacy system must continue
in operations. Staff has considerable reservations that the system could remain viable for 18
additional months. It is possible that an open procurement in addition to taking nearly two-years
may cost more than the cumulative cost with this contract increase. In addition, we would lose
the sunk cost of $343,000.


Terminate Contract and Revert to TruTrack System
This is not a sustainable option as this existing system will fail, it is a matter of when. This
option is not viable.

Prepared by:
Kim Heldman, Business Relationship Manager
George Hovey, Manager, Program Management
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 51

2.13.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: September 2, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

September 1, 2015

Subject:

Approval of InFax Contract Authorization

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: September 15, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to execute a
five-year contract with Infax, Incorporated (Contract Number 15FH003) in the amount of
$1,788,655.39.
BACKGROUND
RTD uses Programmable Information Displays (PIDs) including monitors and LED signs, to disseminate
information to its riders on travel status. RTD’s current system uses monitors at a number of venues
including Denver Union Station, Civic Center Station, Boulder Station, Boulder Junction at Depot Square
and the Denver International Airport (DIA). There are also LED signs throughout the region.
These displays provide scheduled departure information for RTD fixed route service and light rail. With
the advancement of Real-Time Traveler information, in the future these data will be extended into the
PIDs system.
The current system was deployed over six-years ago, functions well and has been reliable. With the
Fastrack expansion, desire for additional functionality (e.g. real-time information) and the importance of
this rider service, a procurement was released to extend, enhance and/or replace in-kind the system.
DISCUSSION
RTD released procurement Request for Proposal (RFP) No. 15FH003, it was issued May 20, 2015 to
provide for expansion of RTD’s Programmable Information Display System (PIDs). The contract has a
6% DBE participation requirement. A well-attended vendor briefing was held June 2. The proposal
period closed June 26 and two proposals were received.
One of the vendors did not comply with the Buy America contract requirement, nor appropriately
advanced associated waiver provisions and was disqualified. Staff conducted a careful and through
review of the proposal of the remaining vendor, Infax, Incorporated. Infax is the incumbent PIDs
provider. The panel specifically considered:
 System functionality and use
 Proposed Work Program
 History of firm conducting similar assignments
 Qualifications of key staff
 DBE participation
 Price

Packet Pg. 52

2.13.F

The review panel met with Infax representatives. The panel unanimously recommended selection of the
Infax base of the following findings:
 Infax had a considerable background of similar systems in transit, air transport and judicial facilities.
 The proposed staff was well versed in the system and had prior working experience with RTD.
 The proposed system was an enhancement of RTD’s current system and was a cost effective move
to address future needs.
 The proposed system and services addressed all RFP requirements.
 Infax had a proven record working with the proposed DBE firm Servitech, Inc. at RTD and other
locations.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract is structured with a series of options that support current operations and future needs.
While the overall contract authority is for $1,788,655.39, the first set of executed options will address:
support and/or provisioning of new or additional signage at DUS, full implementation at Boulder Junction
at Depot Square, Oak Street Station, and US 36. The option also includes system licensing and an
extended warranty. This first option is primarily funded by a federal grant that does include a local
match and operating funds will address future warranty expense. The total cost of the first set of
options is $681,510.99.
Subsequent options address Fastracks, integration of real-time information, and possible replacement of
current light rail platform signage. Executing these options will be made based on future needs and will
be funded through the operating and SBP budgets. Further option executions are exclusively at the
discretion of RTD and there is no guarantee of additional assignments.
ALTERNATIVES
The available alternatives include:
 Execute the Infax agreement. Infax has a proven record in this space, is financially
competitive and meets the agency needs. Executing the Infax agreement is staff’s
recommendation.
 Extend the current system using RTD staff. Current staff levels are inadequate to address the
anticipated demands. Further the content system contains proprietary software that cannot
be modified directly by RTD.

Prepared by:
Kim Heldman, Business Relationship Manager
George Hovey, Manager, Program Management
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 53

