Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 at
5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Chacon, Director Bagley, Director Christopher, Director Cohen,
Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Pulliam,
Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen
Director Brohl, Director Busck, Director Martinez, Director McMullen,
Director O’Boyle

Staff Present:

Kenn Hardin, Dave Genova, Cal Shankster, Brian Matthews, Lisa Fliam,
Errol Stevens, Terry Howerter, Errol Stevens, Martha Hecox, Bruce
Able, Carolyn Conover, Teresa Sedmak, Bill Porter, Jim Stadler, Robert
Medina, Daria Serna, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Roberts, Rick Clarke, Michael
Washington, Scott Reed, Caitlin Magee

Others present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bruce Behnke (Veolia), Jim Wolfe (Veolia)
****

Call to Order

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m. Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager, Customer and Contracted Services
announced that Cal Marsella had gone home ill and he would be filling in
for the General Manager.
Director Chacon announced that DBE would now meet monthly along
with the Finance and Operations Committees.
Director Chacon spoke of the Mayors State of the City address that was
held that morning. Cal Marsella was recognized by the Mayor of Denver
for his accomplishments. The Mayor also recognized the Board and the
Metro Mayors.
Director Chacon suggested guidelines for the Committee that if
information is in the packet, questions should be limited to what you
don’t understand or know. Staff should not have to review every item
that was distributed in the packet.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 2 of 3

I.

FasTracks - Kenn Hardin gave the highlights of activity in the Small Business Opportunity
Office.


West Corridor Notice To Proceed (NTP) Update - The West Corridor
contractor is meeting the 18% DBE goal. There are 27 DBEs that will be
working on the corridor (and possibly more) totaling fifty-three million dollars.
DTCG pledged a trucking consortium (a unique concept in the Denver
market) and twenty-one DBE trucking firms are signed up. DTCG has
pledged to use only DBE trucking firms in the consortium. Approximately six
million dollars will go to the trucking consortium. Someone with one truck
has as much of a chance of getting work as someone with ten trucks, the
work is by lottery.



Bonding Program for the West Corridor - Firms who are awarded contracts
of $500,000 or less will be enrolled in the District’s bonding program.
Documents are being finalized. Twelve firms have been assessed for initial
start in the program. Two firms have been approved with three more ready
for approval. The bonding program is open to all firms (DBE or not) who
have contracts under $500,000.
Director Tayer asked about the design phase of the West Corridor and how it
didn’t meet the DBE goal. Mr. Hardin responded that the design will continue
through the construction phase of the contract. The contract has committed
to meeting the DBE goal of 21% (currently at 19%).

II.



Denver Union Station (DUS) Notice To Proceed Update - There are two goals
placed on DUS so far. The design phase has a 15% goal and the construction
phase has a 16% DBE goal. The design phase has met the goal with nine DBEs
assigned in the amount of $3,950,000. The construction phase will have 22
DBEs for the amount of $50,470,000. The SBOO will continue to monitor the
DBEs throughout the project. Kiewit has submitted their DBE plan to the SBOO
which will be approved later this week. Their plan contains a mentor-protégé
program to assist DBEs with their management program. The District hopes
that DBEs will be able to grow from the program.



Public Private Partnership Delay – The DBE community is concerned about
the delay. Staff is working to assure them that there will be opportunities on
the East and Gold corridors whether it is in the form of the P3 or on the
corridors individually.

Small Business Opportunity Office News/Facts - Mr. Hardin shared how the SBOO
works very closely with the Procurement department on looking at smaller
procurements and IGAs to see if there are DBE opportunities. Mr. Hardin gave the
example of the Greenwood Village Center Station plaza IGA. This IGA had no DBE
participation but with the help of Ed Gonzales in the Procurement department, they had
talks with Greenwood Village and were able to get 23% DBE participation on the
project. Staff needs to continue to be mindful of IGAs and the opportunities when

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 3 of 3

Federal dollars are involved.
The SBOO will be will be adding a DBE project manager for the DUS project. Her name
is Maylene Rodriguez and the SBOO is very excited to have her coming on staff. Mr.
Hardin will introduce her to the Committee next month. This project manager will
monitor payments to DBEs and other issues related to the contract.
Payment issues have diminished quite a bit.
III.

Conflict Resolution Process – This item was covered in the materials distributed to the
Board prior to the Committee. Mr. Hardin reiterated that the SBOO is always available
to answer any questions that the Board may receive from constituents.
Director Bagley suggested printing out a summary of the key items for DBE and where
the Directors can find additional information within the packet distributed. Mr. Hardin
said that the report will come to the Board on a quarterly basis.

IV.

Adjourn – Hearing no objection Chair Chacon adjourned the meeting at 5:53 p.m.

