1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, March 19, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:56 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:56 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:58 PM
7:52 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:57 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

7:57 PM
7:50 PM
7:50 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:49 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:58 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:50 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:57 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:53 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Marcellinus Andrew, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Mark
Jones, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay,
Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Brenden
Morgan, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Richard Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Dean Shaklee, John
Tarbert, Mike Turner, Phil Washington, Michael Washington, Dennis
Yaklich

Others Present:

Rich Burns, Richard Enman, Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Sherman
Hamilton, Bill Hipp, Lee Johnson, Stu Livensparger, Mike Newman,
Jason Simmons, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Ronnie Valle, Gary
Van Dorn, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Certificates
of Participation, Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District
Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
Motion:

Chair Anderson made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the March 26, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter began by recognizing Brenden Morgan as well
as Dee Wisor from Sherman & Howard L.L.C and Mike
Newman and Jason Simmons from First Southwest Company.
He stated that they have been a big help on a debt deal that
was closed today for approximately $100 million. This was
one of the items approved at the February, 2013 Board
meeting.
Brenden Morgan stated that on January 22, 2013, staff
presented the refinancing of three RTD financing issues at

lower than current interest rates to reduce payments, and
improve cash flow as a Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) item and
proposed to use the financing capacity generated by the
refundings as a step toward accelerating construction of the
North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union Station to 72nd
Avenue.
Brenden Morgan shared that the first of these refundings was
approved today and obtained an on cost capital of 1.63% and
a savings of $25.2 million over the life of the bond.
Brenden Morgan said that this action item discusses the third
of the three refunding opportunities that were included in the
RAM item proposed on January 22, 213. This item also
includes a discussion of the financing of buses and ticket
vending machines the District is in the process of procuring.
Brenden Morgan stated that RTD issued its $80.965 million
Certificates of Participation (COP), Series 2005A in June 2005
for the purpose of financing 29 light rail vehicles. At present,
$38.030 million par amount of the 2005 Certificates remain
outstanding.
Brenden Morgan explained that RTD has the potential to
advance refund the remaining outstanding 2005 Certificates
on a callable basis to realize, subject to market movement, a
savings of approximately $1.5 million (4%). He also explained
that this Resolution requires a minimum of 3% savings which
allows some flexibility in regards to changes in interest rates
between now and the date the bonds are sold.
Brenden Morgan noted that while the potential refunding
savings are significant, such savings are net of a cost resulting
from (a) the inability to invest proceeds of the refunding
certificates at a return equal to the interest expense of the
refunding certificates, and (b) the length of time between the
sale of the refunding certificates and call date of the 2005
Certificates that we are refunding. He stated that this is called
the Negative Arbitrage. Brenden Morgan said that despite the
cost associated with the Negative Arbitrage, the potential
savings from a refunding of the 2005 Certificates exceeds the
typical threshold for a refunding by RTD. Staff has assembled
a financing team and commenced documentation to be in a
position to take advantage of the opportunity for RTD to
reduce its interest expense.

Brenden Morgan stated that the Resolution also provides for
financing of up to $210 million worth of equipment as
anticipated to be financed in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
He noted that this is a correction for the Board Report that
reads $280 million. The buses included in this financing are
intercity buses, 40 foot transit buses, 60 foot articulated
buses, Mall Shuttles and ADA cutaway vehicles. Ticket
Vending Machines (TVMs) to be financed include replacement
machines for the southwest and central corridors which will
make all of the District’s light rail lines credit card compatible.
Brenden Morgan explained that the District intends to
reimburse itself for the purchase of this equipment with the
proceeds from these certificates as outlined in the
reimbursement resolution adopted by the Board on May 22,
2012.
Brenden Morgan stated that Terry Howerter has taken the
preliminary actions to arrange for the issuance and sale of the
refunding bonds by preparing documents that are available for
review in the Board Office in substantially final form.
Brenden shared that RTD has been receiving the advice of First
Southwest Company, as independent financial advisors, and
Sherman & Howard L.L.C., as Bond Council. The Certificates
will be underwritten by a team including RBC, J.P. Morgan,
Loop Capital Markets, and Stifel Nicolaus.
Director Solano expressed that he thinks this is great news.
He represents the North Metro area and this will help them get
services in a more efficient and quick way.
Director Deadwyler asked for the total cost of the refinancing
and how many years it was for. Terry Howerter explained
that staff has combined two items together to avoid certain
reissuance costs. There will be underwriting fees, bond
counsel fees, miscellaneous fees, etc. Brenden Morgan stated
that for the Certificates of Participation the costs are about
$1.5 million on a $225 million issuance. He said that we are
not extending the amortization for the 2005 Certificates that
we are refinancing. The other equipment will be financed over
its usable life: 12 years on the larger buses and 5-6 years on
the smaller ones.

Director Daly noted that recently we were re-rated by Fitch.
He asked if we received a poorer rating. Brenden Morgan
stated that we did receive a downgrading in 2012 but when
we had a presentation this year they reaffirmed the rating from
last year so there was no change at this time. Terry Howerter
added that we have not received the ratings for the COPs
presented in this Recommended Action.
Chair Anderson asked for Brenden Morgan to repeat the total
savings amount. He stated that from the bonds sold today,
March 19, 2013 the total savings was $25.2 million. Chair
Anderson congratulated the team for such a huge savings.
Director Menten noted that the original Certificates of
Participation goes back to 2005. She asked if these
Certificates were approved by the voters. Brenden Morgan
explained that since these are COPs this was structured as a
capital lease so it was not brought to the voters for their
approval.
Director Menten believes that some people within Colorado
would consider this as debt. Marla Lien stated that the courts
of the State of Colorado have ruled that genuine lease
purchase agreements where there as an asset for which you
pay fair market value on an annual basis is not debt; it is a
rental of an asset. She said that RTD has ensured through
bond counsel that all our financing and the assessment of the
value that we pay on an annual basis are in compliance with
the laws of the State of Colorado.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Recommendations Update
Terry Howerter explained that his team tries to bring quarterly updates on
the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force that the Board has directed staff to
pursue.
Doug MacLeod stated that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force was formed
in 2010. The Task Force brought forward recommendations that were
approved in June 2011 and in May 2012 the Board prioritized the
recommendations. He said that staff had a meeting on March 7th with the
State Department of Revenue (DOR). Doug MacLeod shared that we
explained our goals and they were well received. He stated that the next
step is to meet with DOR staff to better understand their auditing processes.
The next step will be to develop a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
followed by an RFP to engage a third party to supplement the DOR audit
duties. Doug MacLeod explained that this does not require additional State
legislation.
Doug MacLeod noted that as the Board may recall, we have put together
some legislation to get RTD on parity with the State; this means that
vendors would have the same exemptions for RTD as the State.
Director Hoy noted that it seems the Department of Revenue is being very
cooperative which was not the case two years ago. Doug MacLeod
explained that our proposal has changed. We wanted to do a combination
of self-collection and auditing originally but we have changed this as we
have learned about the issues involved. He also believes there was some
misunderstanding by the DOR as to what we wanted; they thought we
wanted to audit their work. Doug MacLeod stated that we are now on the
same page.
Director Hoy asked about using a third party auditor. He thought that the
Department of Revenue was opposed to this idea. Terry Howerter explained
that we also changed our approach with regard to the auditors. We will
supplement the State’s audit and bring auditors in at that level. He
explained that the State does this with several cities already.
General Manager Washington stated that we have a great working
relationship with the former RTD Board member and Executive Director of

the Department of Revenue, Barbara Brohl. He said that she has been
outstanding in understanding what we are trying to do. She has really
helped us.
Director Menten noted that the annual cost of $500 thousand for the Sales
and Use Tax Compliance Review is for both collections and auditing. She
asked if staff could tell her how that amount breaks out. Terry Howerter
explained that this is a monthly fee we receive from the Department of
Revenue as one number so staff would not be able to break it out.
Director Menten asked how many additional staff members would be needed
to implement the Task Force recommendations Doug MacLeod reviewed.
She also asked if we would need any additional software. Terry Howerter
stated that we are not anticipating any additional staff as the audit would be
outsourced to a third party. We would also not need any software.
Director Menten pointed out the con listed under the Sales and Use Tax
Compliance Review section is a perception by vendors of additional
compliance burdens. She stated that as a small business owner, if they
have to fill out a form for another government entity and worry about an
additional audit there is no perception of an additional burden; there is an
additional burden.
Director Bagley stated that in looking at the Top, Second and even Lower
Tier Priorities he wanted to note how important the Task Force is. The Task
Force included staff, Board members, and people from the business
community. He explained that it is very important to him to see that we
have really made progress with taking action on some of the items
identified. He is very happy to see us where we are today.
Director Hoy noted that if the tax parity goes through, vendors would
basically be duplicating the same forms. Doug MacLeod explained that
concept is that it will be simpler and easier for the State to perform their
audits; it is a clean audit for both the State and RTD. He believes it will be
beneficial in that aspect.
Director James thanked Staff for their persistence in moving forward with
the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force recommendations. He feels that
managing our fiscal house seems to be going well.
Director Menten asked for clarification as to what action requires legislation
that staff mentioned was introduced today, March 19. She asked for
clarification on the language of the bill; she wanted to ensure that we are
not requesting a business owner fill out additional paperwork. Doug
MacLeod stated that we need legislation for the exemption parity but not for

the supplemental audit services. Marla Lien explained that the bill creates
the same Sales and Use Tax Base for RTD, Science & Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD), and the State. Terry Howerter reiterated that the parity will
make it simpler for the vendors to file their taxes because everyone will have
the same tax base.
Chair Anderson recognized that Director Menten made some good points but
she shared that she sat on the Colorado Municipal League Sales Tax
Committee as a business person and retailer who collected taxes. Chair
Anderson explained that the consensus of opinion was that if it was uniform
than it was easier rather than having to keep two sets of tax records.

• January 2013 Financial Summary
Doug MacLeod reviewed the January 2013 Financial Summary Memo with
the Board that can be found in the March 19, 2013 Financial Administration
and Audit Agenda Packet. He explained that due to the year-end financial
audit, the financial information was not yet complete so staff only presents
Dashboard information.
Committee Chair Walker shared that when he was reviewing this report he
was thinking about the American Community Survey that came out several
weeks earlier that showed the people of Denver are really good about riding
bikes. He commented that he wonders if this has an influence on why
fewer people are using public transportation. Committee Chair Walker thinks
it is a trend that we should keep an eye on.

• 2013 Amended Budget, 2014-2019 SBP, 2014 Budget – Calendar
Jannette Scarpino explained that this 2013 Summary Budget Calendar is to
help the Board anticipate the timing of the key financial plans that staff will
present throughout the year. She stated that staff will look to the Board for
collaboration in developing these plans throughout the year. Jannette
Scarpino noted June 25, July 16, and November 19 as meetings of
particular importance.
Jannette Scarpino shared with the Board that staff is anticipating bringing
forth changes for the 2014 Budget in FasTracks Projects. She explained
that these are multiyear projects but only the current year’s budget amount
is adopted. Jannette Scarpino stated that going forward we will be
disclosing future years’ budget expenditures as well. Staff will ask the
Board to approve the budget but not appropriate the funds for the additional
years. She said that this change comes from a request by the Federal
Transportation Administration for more transparency; while it has always
been the Board’s intent to approve the entire project, only the current year’s

budget is in Oracle. This change will allow for future years to be in Oracle
as well which is what we provide to the FTA.

• 2012 Performance Report – Fourth Quarter
Jannette Scarpino stated that any exceptions for the 2012 4th Quarter
Report were thoroughly addressed in the Operations and Customer Service
Committee meeting. She reiterated that our problem areas are seeing
improvements in the 4th Quarter. The next report will be for Quarter 1 of
2013 and she hopes to see continued improvements.

D. Other Matters
Director Sisk highlighted that the Board had a discussion tonight about Sales Tax
Parity and that there was a bill brought by Senator Hollingsworth to the legislature
today. He handed out a resolution that he asked the Board to consider approving at
a Special Board Meeting following the Government Relations Committee Meeting on
April 2nd, 2013. This resolution shows the steps have been taken and
demonstrates that the Board is taking measures to create funding sources to
assist/fund the unfunded corridors.
Director Sisk shared that he was very honored to join his colleagues in Washington,
D.C. for the APTA Legislative Conference. He thought it was very beneficial and
was impressed with the respect that RTD has throughout the nation. This makes
him very proud to be part of RTD.
Director James reminded the Directors about The Road Ahead event on March
21st, 2013 that they were invited to. He believes it will be very interesting.
Director Solano reiterated that he believes the reason the on-time performance for
First Transit Commerce City was lower than the other areas was because the
negotiations of the union contract are coming up. He thinks this may be due to
worker apathy. Director Solano also provided the number for Truckers Against
Trafficking Every Day Heroes: 1-888-373-7888 for the record.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 9, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:44 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

