Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

August 10, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
August 9, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James; Chair Kemp; Directors Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
Malpiede, McMullen, Tobiassen, and Tayer.
Director Cohen arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Anderson, Bagley, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Libby Cox,
David Genova, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Tyler Kealy, Amber Koch, George Kuzirian, Marla Lien,
Richard Lobato, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Richard Petty, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Ed Bush – CRMCA, and Stan Groneck – ATU 1001
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Multi-Agency Exchange Program Introductions
General Manager Washington noted that RTD would be creating its own strategic
leadership development program. This program has several components to it that consist
of 5 central points:
1. Leadership Academy – This is designed to develop a proactive long
term structure to enable the district to train selected employees that
will provide education and an opportunity to develop competencies.
This requires an application and interview process before selection into
the 12 month program.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 2 of 5

2. Implementing/stressing current training programs – This includes ethics
training, employee assistance programs, and time management.
3. Mentoring – A program to provide participants with a mentor here at
RTD to coach employees in achieving their personal goals.
4. Departmental Training - Each Assistant General Manager is responsible
for creating a department training program which will be provided for
cross departmental training throughout the district.
5. Multi-Agency Exchange Partnership Program - This will identify
employees that will participate in an exchange program amongst peer
agencies that include RTD-Denver, DART, and LA Metro. The purpose
is to have employees travel to different agencies every 3 months for 3
to 4 days. RTD will host the first exchange visit beginning at the end of
August. The eight representatives chosen to represent RTD are: Jesse
Carter, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, Richard Lovato, Bobby McGinnes,
Sherry Sprague, Jim Starling, and Henry Stopplecamp.
General Manager Washington added that there would be a reception held on the 29th for
all participants in this program and the Board and Senior Leadership Team would be
invited as well.
Director Deadwyler commended General Manager Washington for this program, but
indicated that perhaps this is something that could wait given RTDs current economic
situation.
General Manager Washington noted that there would not be any layoffs next year. There
would be an attrition factor and a delay in hiring, but layoffs would not occur. Also, to
be a sustainable organization and to implement the programs we have now and to
adequately administer our FFGA grant, the Leadership Academy needs to be put into
place. RTD has been negligible in its approach to succession planning for years and if
this were not to be implemented now, then when. If we are going to be a leader in the
transit industry we need to prepare our employees to succeed us.
Director Daly inquired if there was a budgetary impact for the Leadership Program.
General Manager Washington explained that this was a 5 year program that will equate
to $84,000 per year. This includes training, the academy, and the MAX program.
Director Deadwyler noted that we should look at the big picture and while this program
is nice to have, it is not a must have.
Chair Kemp added that we should be cautious in how we move forward, but at the same
time we do need to have and be leaders in the transit industry. Having the vision to
ensure a well founded organization is necessary and shows your employees you care
about them by creating stability and growth potential. The Leadership Academy program
ensures that they will stay longer in the organization.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 3 of 5

II.

Recommended Actions


Budget Transfer Request for CCTV at Denver Union Station

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $353,399 for the Denver Union Station
CCTV project, and the associated Homeland Security grant funds, from the base system
capital budget to the FasTracks capital budget to facilitate proper accounting for the
assets. This project is 100% funded by a federal Homeland Security grant.
Terry Howerter explained that this budget transfer is from company 1 to company 2. At
the time the amended budget was set up we put the cameras for Denver Union Station
on company 1 and it should have been company 2.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the full Board
at the August 16, 2011 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The Motion passed Unanimously.

2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt the 2012-2017 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Terry Howerter explained that there would not be a presentation tonight since the basic
information has not changed from the July 26th Study Session presentation. The
document will provide guidance and as we go through the budget process we will update
the SBP to the actual budget that will be brought before the Board. The SBP is in balance
and is sustainable through 2017.
Jeanette Scarpino indicated that the latest projects are being incorporated and currently
there looks to be a $14.4 million shortfall, however, we are not anticipating any layoffs
for next year. We recommend a $12 million dollar service adjustment with equals 10%,
a $2.4 million hiring freeze, and development of both Operating Fund Balance and
Capitol Replacement Balance Fund.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she still did not agree with projects 143 and 144 and
asked why we have a 6 year plan without having a pilot program being completed.
Terry Howerter noted that if a project were to fail, the funds would be adjusted as
necessary each year as the budget is brought to the Board.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 4 of 5

Marla Lien added that we sign contracts with jurisdictions on an annual basis so that we
are not tied to multiyear funding obligations.
Directory Hoy noted that there is a provision for a 2014 and 2017 fare increase and
indicated that a more frequent smaller increase is easier to deal with than waiting and
implementing a larger increase.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full Board
at the August 16, 2011 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed with nine (9) in
favor (Cohen, Daly, James, Hoy,
Kemp,
Malpiede,
McMullen,
Tobiassen and Tayer) and one (1)
against
(Deadwyler).
Directors
Anderson, Bagley, O’Boyle and Riley
were absent.

III.

Second Quarter 2011 Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes noted that an additional seven audits were completed this quarter and are on
schedule to meet the performance standards set for the department. Mr. Holmes
explained that a number of items are still open and we continue to monitor and follow up
on these items to ensure quality control.

IV.

Second Quarter 2011 Investment Report
Teresa Sedmak explained that Treasury rates are currently at historic lows.
Director Tayer if we had considered refinancing our debt. Teresa Sedmak explained that
we have combed our debt portfolio for savings, but there is no opportunity at this time
that we would consider beneficial to us.

V.

June 2011 Monthly Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter explained that due to the timing of the sales tax receipts this report was
not available for the Board until tonight.
Doug MacLeod explained that ridership continues to increase from last year’s figures, but
that is due to the Mall Shuttle. Fare revenue was another good month and sales and use
tax were very good in June.
Director McMullen inquired as to when we would see the sales and use tax figure impact
from the new IKEA store. Terry Howerter explained that they went into service in July

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 5 of 5

and it would take two months to see the results, but based on their forecasts we are
anticipating $1 million each year added to our current sales and use tax figures.
VI.

Other Matters
None

VII.

Next Meeting Date – September 13, 2011

VIII.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m. to the Operations/Customer Service Committee

