Apr 23 2019 0530 PM Board of Directors Study
Session
DOUG TISDALE: The format is a little different. I will note for the sake of the record that this is
an official meeting of the RTD Board of Directors. And as such, it is digitally video and audio
recorded. And it will be closed captioned and made available to the public via the Board's
website.
And I will note for the sake of the record that all of the Directors are present in the room at this
time other than the Director Folska, Director Walker, and Director Cook. That said, Director
Folska is with us on the telephone. And Treasurer Cook should be here shortly. And Secretary
Walker may be here later. And there's-JEFF WALKER: Jeff is on the line.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK, thank you. So the Secretary is on the line with us. And the Treasurer
has just walked in the room.
JEFF WALKER: I'm on a very crowded E Line right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, you're on a very-- good. Good for you. Thank you so much, Mr.
Secretary. Appreciate that. All right, we begin with a safety briefing. Our safety briefing tonight
is in three parts. First part-- there was a very nice article in the Monday Morning Dispatch about
G Line safety. You are all encouraged to review that "Safety Moment" in the Monday Morning
Dispatch regarding G Line safety.
Second safety briefing-- the San Antonio Spurs are playing the Denver Nuggets at 7:30 PM
tonight at Pepsi. So when you leave this building after the meeting, depending upon the time,
you might want to be sensitive to which way you go. Third safety briefing-- if you want to be
safe in your use of the RTD Cyber System for emails, for accessing documents, and so forth, you
will be oh, so much more safe if you remember to take the cyber security training that we have
available for the Directors.
There are still a couple who have not yet had the opportunity. And we want to emphasize that
your safety, as well as the safety of our electronic system, is in your hands. So we ask you please
to remember to take the cyber security training.
There is a ton of paper at your place today. So if you felt somehow ignored through the day,
we've tried to make up for that by providing all of this paper. One of the things that we have
provided to you is a restated listing of the RTD Board committees updated through this
afternoon.
And specifically, Director Lubow has respectfully, due to the press of other business, requested
to be relieved from her duties on the General Manager's Oversight and Performance
Management Committee. And so Director Troy Whitmore has been appointed to take Director

Lubow's place on that committee. And we also made a change to the Jefferson County Parkway
Public Highway Authority Board to reflect Director Cook as the delegated representative to that.
You have other items before you, which you will have a chance to look at, not the least of which,
because we're talking about strategic priorities and so forth, please note you have another copy of
the 2020 strategic priorities, together with the 2019 strategic priorities for comparison, and a
copy of the strategic Planning Retreat Agenda RTD Board and Staff from our March 2nd retreat.
You have before you also-- and I just so thought we were going to get by without any such
reference being made, but we couldn't quite make it. So we have a reference to "Nothing but a G
thing" on the t-shirt.
So that's very nice. And we appreciate that. For those of you who do have Ghost Train t-shirts
that might have been given to you by Director Anderson or others, you might want to bring them
on Monday, because I think we're going to have a ceremonial burning of the Ghost Line t-shirts
for everyone.
All right, that is the introduction. To give you some general information about where we are, as
you know, this evening is a study session. And it is a study session wherein-- [COUGHS] excuse
me-- we turn our attention specifically to the General Manager's 2020 Tactical Plan.
In March, the Board and the Senior Leadership Team held its retreat at the Denver Athletic Club
for the purpose of communicating, collaborating, and cooperating in order to identify the
strategic priorities for the agency in the coming years. Tonight, our General Manager will present
to us his tactical plan for implementing these priorities in 2020. I will emphasize-- as I know the
General Manager will as well-- this is only the first opportunity to discuss the issues raised
herein.
There will be others. You are not foreclosed from further discussion after tonight. Just to
emphasize.
Mr. Genova, sir, you and your team look to be ready. And I submit we are ready for you. Good
evening, and please take it away, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chair and Board of Directors. We're excited
to present the tactical plan tonight. It's a lot of good priorities, and a lot of great information as
we got together as a team, and started to flush these out, and work through our process. So we
have the whole Senior Leadership Team up here.
And I'll mention them all, so we get them all on the record. But I just want the Board to know
and appreciate that this truly is a team effort. We were all involved in either writing, revising,
collaborating, brainstorming on all of the strategic priorities. So what you have in front of you
and what we'll go through tonight is truly a representation of a collective work of all of us.
So what I would like to do tonight is a couple of things that you have in front of you. There is a
brief PowerPoint presentation, which will be on the screen tonight. And it is very-- it just very
much has some very brief highlights as we go through it. We'll have a kind have a slide on

process, an introduction, and then there'll be one slide per strategic priority. And then I'll go into
the detail on each one of those.
You also have-- so you have a hard copy of the presentation. You have a cover memo that goes
with the Tactical Plan. And then you have a hard copy of the Tactical Plan that includes all five
strategic priorities that the Board selected as a result of the 2019 retreat.
And so what I'd like to do, with the Board's permission, is to just get through the entire
presentation. And then we'll take questions at the end. So as we're moving along, if you would
just make note of your questions so we don't lose track of those, and we can address either
questions, comments, or input. So I'll get into process in a moment. Let me just go through the
round of introductions.
So I'm starting over to my right, at the very end next to Director Lubow is Michael Washington
is our Manager of Transit Equity. And he was the primary author on this particular strategic
priority, with input and review from the rest of us. Rolf Asphaug, our General Counsel, Dave
Jensen, our Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations, Michael Ford, our Chief Operating
Officer, Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, Mike Meader, our Chief Safety
Officer, Heather McKillop, our Chief Financial Officer, Fred Worthen, our Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, Pauletta Tonilas, our Assistant General Manager of
Communications, and Henry Stopplecamp, our Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs.
OK, so we will begin. I'm going to talk briefly about the tactical plan and the goal-setting
process. So as the Chair mentioned, this is opportunity tonight for us to present the proposed
tactical plan on each one of the strategic priorities, and then receive your questions, your input,
your feedback. And so this is the-- I know this is the first look at it.
You also received this electronically from the Board Office a few, probably 15, 20 minutes ago.
So you have it electronically as well. This is our process on this particular document, that we
walk this in, because there's just a lot of information, and it helps to have the presentation along
with the document to address questions.
So after tonight, I'll continue to receive input, feedback, your questions for about a week to 10
days. So even tonight, if there's things that come to you later that you want to talk about, please,
you can reach out to me by telephone. If you want to set a meeting, we can set a meeting, or by
email, if you have questions or comments and things, as you want the team to consider as we
work to our next step.
So after tonight, we will start to develop, as a team, the Senior Leadership Team will start to
develop the very specific proposed 2020, what we call "General Manager task goals," that then
will go to the General Manager Oversight Committee (GMOC). And to begin that process with
the GMOC Committee to start reviewing the proposed goals that the General Manager will
bring. Those items then go through a process with the GMOC.
They get massaged. There is input. There's revisions. The GMOC will eventually approve that
document. And then it will come to the full Board for review and approval.

And by the way, the GMOC Committees are open. Even though it is not a committee of the
whole-- there are seven members on it-- it's open to all Board members for all committee
meetings. And it's very helpful that, if you want to come and participate and have comments, to
do so.
So that is the process. There'll be a lot of opportunity to comment, again, after tonight, if you
have things you'd like to bring up with me. I'll be starting to work at the beginning of next week
on the next step, which is the five. Since we have five strategic priorities, these will then turn
into five Task Goals for the General Manager and CEO, which become the goals of the agency.
All right, I think that's what I wanted to cover on process. So let's jump into the very first one.
And the first one we have is "strengthen transparent public communication and collaboration." I
think the Board knows that RTD, we continue to lead the Denver Metro Region in transportation
transformation, even with the challenges that we've had.
So those challenges, as we know, have contributed to public scrutiny of RTD, which have
negatively impacted the agency's public image. Even though the majority, the 99% plus things of
what we do, we do very well, there have been questions and concerns around our ability to
complete FasTracks, and then schedule on a couple of those projects. So some of the things we'll
talk about here under this particular strategic priority are working on trying to rebuild our trust
and our collaboration with our stakeholders.
As we had a new Assistant General Manager come on in this area just earlier this year, Pauletta,
she came in with three overarching goals-- build an image of trust, transparency, and
accountability, to position RTD as an industry leader, instigator, and integrator, establish a
strategic communications roadmap for the agency, and focus on the Communications
Department to optimize its role as a collaborative, dynamic, accountable, and high-performing
team committed to delivering communications excellence to internal and external customers.
So I am going to-- as you see these, the main bullets on the slide, they each one represent kind of
a broad area. And I'll talk a little bit about each one, and then possibly get into just some
highlights of some of the tactics. I won't cover everything, obviously, in the tactical planning,
because it's a document of about 25 pages or so. So I will just hit the highlights as we move
through.
So number one, when RTD has progress or news to share, whether it's good news, bad news, the
agency will develop a communications work plan to ensure that audiences are notified in a
timely and proactive manner. The plan will also outline a hierarchy or order of communications
to ensure that the information is shared timely. This piece is getting more and more challenging
now, because as soon as one piece of information is out there, it is out there.
And so the hierarchy of notifications that used to be a little bit more straightforward have really
become blurred. But we still have those kinds of things built into our plan. It's important that we
speak in a unified voice with one message, is another way the agency strengthens not only our
communications but our brand.

So one voice, one message. Some of the tactics under this area are, "develop communication
work plans for events, developments, and issues," and "develop topic area or issue-specific key
messages and fact sheets."
Second main area is, "enhance engagement opportunities with diverse audiences." And I think
we have a lot of opportunity to do this. With an eight-county service area that spans 2,400 square
miles, we have a widespread and diverse array of stakeholders.
So establishing widespread, overarching engagement and customized engagement opportunities
that are easy, convenient, and safe for groups will ensure that agency conducts comprehensive
and authentic engagement across the region. So some of the tactics here are, "target engagement
to include small scale and large scale, in-person, and digital activities," "incorporate Board
members into community events in their districts," "utilize the Citizens Advisory Committee for
our transportation transformation and service change engagement efforts," and "conduct
widespread public opinion across the district, both of our customers, our riders, and our nonriders, as well."
Next main area, "fostering community partnerships." We'll do this through the following tactics-hold regional PIO (public information officer) briefings, develop regional stakeholder newsletter,
broaden our periodic meetings with RTD and Denver staff, expand outreach for EcoPass and
LiVE programs, repurpose the LiVE Marketing and Outreach Advisory Committee for other
engagement efforts to help us work through that program, and get the marketing and word out on
that program.
"Expanding internal communications" is the next area. Some of the tactics there would be
"streamline RTD roadshows across the divisions," and "get the Senior Leadership Team out in
the field and having face time with different work groups, both within the organization." We
feel-- and you'll see this again under the Safety and Security priority, about our goal about
having leadership out and about more than we currently are, by making that a very intentional
effort.
Next item is "establishing a proactive media strategy." And so a component of a proactive and
transparent communications is creating like an RTD newsroom. So it wouldn't be like a
newsroom like a news channel, but essentially, we'd call it a "newsroom" because this would
allow us, allows the agency, to develop our own narrative and share relevant news and
information with the public, instead of allowing the news and social media to set the narrative for
and about RTD.
So we have a lot of great ideas on this-- blogging, video news releasing, podcasts, thought
leadership articles. And we're going to develop some frameworks on how the RTD Board and
staff can engage more in social media, of course, within parameters and framework, as we
continue to work on our messaging and one voice one message. So we think there's a lot of
opportunity there, as well. "Develop a rapid response plan for emerging news," and "hold
periodic media visits--" some of that has already begun.

And then the last main area under this particular strategic priority is "expand marketing and
customer information programs by launching numerous"-- we do a lot of individual marketing
campaigns each year to educate and inform about all kinds of things. But there are ways the
agency can be more proactive as we look to enhance the customer experience. So some of the
tactics here would be, "refresh agency safety campaign," "begin implementation of digital
customer information displays," "modify the website to enhance navigation and availability of
most relevant customer information," and then also "enhance rider alerts to include more detailed
route-specific information."
We hear a lot about being able to provide the most timely, relevant information in the form of
alerts as we possibly can. So that includes strategic priority number one. The second one is
"address transit equity."
And by the way, these are in no particular order. They're essentially in the order that they came
out of the sheet on the strategic retreat that we have. So there's no prioritization in our mind. It's
just simply listed the same way in the other documents that you have.
So an equitable public transit system is a fair transit system, where services, resources, benefits,
and impacts are distributed with respect to transit demand, not race, color, national origin, or
income status. The requirements that we have around this are largely in Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act in 1964, Executive Order 12898, Federal actions to address environmental justice in
minority populations and low-income populations, and Colorado Revised Statutes 24-34-601 and
related guidance specify how transit agencies must ensure their policies and practices are
equitable.
At the Board of Directors' instruction, staff will not only comply with these civil right laws, but
enhance our efforts to guarantee fairness in the delivery of the RTD Transit System. So we were
intentionally-- we were intentional about starting this framework with what are the basic
requirements, rules, and regulations around this and the definitions. Because you all will
remember, when we were at the retreat, if we asked, "what's the definition of equity," it might be
a lot of different things.
So we're really kind of focusing this strategic priority on where we need to be with the
framework. So we have four key areas that we want to do under this strategic priority. And the
first one is develop an equity training program.
And this equity training initiative intends to foster an inclusive environment for the public and
employees, while mitigating the risk of discrimination lawsuits and complaints. The training will
aim to provide RTD employees and applicable contractors with cultural competency, implicit
bias management, de-escalation tactics, and a basic understanding of civil rights requirements.
The Civil Rights and Transit Equity Offices will collaborate to develop this training program.
And we'll begin by prioritizing customer-facing and executive-level employees, and then
working up through the organization.
The next tactic here is an inclusive decision-making framework. So there's a lot of things going
on in our industry, changing kinds of services, new private sector kinds of things, collaborations

that we're doing with private sectors. We want to make sure that as we get into these new, longrange planning initiatives and adaptions to FlexRide operations and partnerships with private and
public transportation interests, we want to make sure that we don't unintentionally or
unjustifiably exclude populations based on race, color, national origin, and income status.
So one of the things we can do to mitigate this risk, and help us be better about being inclusive,
is to have this inclusive decision-making framework. So this framework will establish policy and
a set of practices that seek to include and consult the full spectrum of the public before the
district makes critical decisions. Through an inclusive decision-making framework, we can reap
the following benefits-- a collective understanding, managed expectations, better decisions,
community buy-in, legal risk management, and increased public satisfaction.
Our next tactic here is what we call an "internal equity working group." And the promotion of an
equitable transit system is the responsibility of every department and every district employee. So
for the district to enhance responsiveness to equity concerns, the Planning Department will
convene an internal Equity Working Group. And the internal Equity Working Group, it will be
cross-departmental assembly of internal leaders focused on identifying and responding to
opportunities to promote equitable transit.
And then the last tactic under this item is "safety and security community relations plan."
Communities-- they trust us with their lives and the lives of their loved ones as we connect the
region. And so as we adapt our safety and security measures to meet those evolving needs, it's
important that all communities feel safe when accessing our transit system. And to ensure that all
feel safe when encountering our system, the Planning, Communications, Safety, Security, and
Asset Management Departments will collaborate to develop a comprehensive Community
Relations Plan. The plan aims to connect with the community, offer transparency, understand
community concerns, and inform safety plans.
Our next strategic priority is, "enhance current and future transportation methods." And this,
again, is another very broad topic. We've kind of narrowed it down to about four major areas for
the purpose of discussion and taking it to the next step.
And we know that the transportation and public transit sectors in the US are experiencing many
challenges and changes in service delivery, including staffing in a competitive economy,
introduction of new transportation service providers, and increased customer expectations and
options. Well, RTD, we have taken a leadership role as the region's mobility integrator. And the
actions identified in this plan will help strengthen and retain this position.
So the following kinds of tactics are what we are looking to for key opportunities in 2020-improving current methods. Under that, a particular area is bus stop consolidation to improve
quality, reliability of bus service. FlexRide, and using other service provider vehicles together
with the FlexRide fleet-- we presented some information, I think at the last Operations
Committee. That was Jeff Becker on some of the kind of innovative ideas we're looking at in this
mobility front.

Transit priority-- so we've identified a number of opportunities for transit priority in a variety of
different quarters. Fleet electrification is another area and improving current methods. The Board
knows we have 36 mall shuttles that are all electric, and that we will be expanding in the near
future with the grant afforded to us through the VW (Volkswagen) settlement, with the addition
of up to about 15 electric 40-foot transit coaches.
And then bus rapid transit (BRT) in 2010-- RTD will finalize the regional arterial BRT
Feasibility and 119 BRT studies. In 2020, we'll have the opportunity to identify one or more
BRT corridors as candidates for the FTA Small Starts program. Also in 2019, RTD will finish
the State Highway 119 planning. We have $30 million identified in 2023 in the mid-term
financial plan, and we will continue to collaborate and work with local governments and CDOT
to try to leverage that money and expand the fund on that project.
Addressing challenges with current methods-- so we face a variety of challenges. Probably
number one is attracting and retaining employees. And I think I told the Board I was recently at a
gathering at an APTA (American Public Transportation Association) Conference with other
transit CEOs, and they went around the room at the very beginning in our introductions and said,
what are the one or two things that are really your big challenges?
And the main predominant theme throughout the entire room was the availability of labor and
being able to recruit, hire, and retain that labor. And so that's-- we're challenged, but the whole
industry is challenged.
So we will continue to work on our recruitment to test and expand our marketing and sourcing
partnerships and outreach to candidates. We'll continue to work on retention. We are continuing
the progress made from the last collective bargaining agreement. We continue to look at the
things we put in place, how they're working, what's maybe not working the way we intended it
to, and where there's opportunity for improvement.
The mandating-- we still, while we've made some improvements here, just like we've made
improvements in headcount and hiring, we're still at a level of mandating that we want to
continue to reduce. And so we're committed to that. And that will be a big goal of ours.
And then communications with internal employees-- we've implemented an Internal
Communications Committee and formal communication process, working on several elements to
improve the two-way communications with employees, investing a lot of time and energy in that,
including focus groups and things of that nature. And then also, support programs-- so we realize
that as our employees are here, particularly those that are working a long day with split shifts,
they need some services, and resources, and things made available to them during that downtime
between their runs, where we can possibly help them take care of some of the things they need to
take care of to just take care of their households, and their families, and their lives.
Developing future methods-- intermodal trip planning is beginning to get into the works. But this
is going to carry over into 2020. And currently, we don't have the capability to have our ondemand service like FlexRide in the Trip Planner. But we're working on gaining that. So that will
be something.

We're working towards Trip Exchange. This is something that is being led by DRCOG (Denver
Regional Council of Governments). We also talked about at the Operations Committee not long
ago. Mobility hub and first and last mile transit improvements. Mobility Choice Blueprint -there's some good opportunity for us to follow up on some of the tactical actions that were
basically identified, that RTD were willing to take the lead in, and then also those things to
collaborate with others.
And to that degree, where we're currently right now, I'm trying to work with the heads of CDOT,
DRCOG and the Denver Chamber to stand up a mobility-- what's the impact stand for, Bill?
Technology advisor.
It's the advisory committee that Mobility Choice identified to kind of just monitor the progress of
the agencies, as we continue to work towards advancing some of those Mobility Choice
Blueprint opportunities. And then lastly under this particular area is the Transportation
Transformation Comprehensive Plan, or the T2 Comp Plan through 2020. The T2 Comp Plan
Team will complete the comprehensive assessment of RTD services.
We'll also make progress on the system optimization plan, the fiscal and financial stability plan,
the fleet electrification plan, and the bus and rail facilities plan. And this work will be
accomplished through using a robust stakeholder, employee, and citizen engagement effort, with,
of course, close oversight and policy direction from the RTD Board.
Our next item strategic priority is "strengthening safety and security." This, again, is a pretty
broad treatment of a lot of different things that we have identified. One of the challenges that
we'll have as a team is start to narrow down a lot of the information you see in front of you
tonight, to develop the very specific task goals that we'll be bringing forward to the GMOC.
So a couple of things to highlight under the safety portion of this tactical plan is beginning with
policy. So safety policy, enhancing leadership engagement and accountability-- I mentioned
earlier that was a tactic we were going to use under communications, but it's a tactic we're also
going to use here to improve safety throughout our organization, with leaders at all levels and
functions being regularly visible in areas where the work is being done, and having discussions
with employees focused on employee safety.
Safety risk management-- and by the way, you may begin to start recognizing some of these
general areas as the pillars of a safety management system. One is policy. One is risk
management. Another one is assurance that we're going to get to in a moment.
But under safety risk management, a couple of tactics here, and being able to gather better and
more data about employee injuries that we can use to analyze, to prioritize actions for
prevention. And in addition, we want to-- as far as developing our safety management system,
the decisions we should be making in this process are data-driven decision making. So we are
going to be working on ways to achieve better, reliable safety data that we can use in our
decision making.

So to that regard, we're going to create and implement an Event Notification Reporting and
Investigation Policy and Procedure. We'll create a safety management system dashboard for
tracking progress on initiatives on both leading and lagging indicators that will allow us to have
accountability at all levels. The safety management system implementation roadmap is the next
item. Working with communications will provide and communicate the safety management
systems effort with a common, consistent message at all levels, building on the existing safety
icon and branding, create an active, dynamic RTD-wide Safety Risk Register.
Another one of the pillars, safety assurance-- we'll be looking at enhanced audits and inspections.
So safety assurance is essentially looking at all of the things that we've put in place-- policies,
procedures, rules, risk controls. And what the safety assurance piece does is it looks that are
these things being effective or do they need-- are there areas of improvement or areas where we
can change?
So "safety assurance" includes things like inspection and oversight, performance monitoring.
And under the FTA (Federal Transit Administration), our current FTA regulations, we have a
very robust internal safety audit program of light rail. And this has been a requirement in the
state safety oversight regulations since about, I'm going to say, 1998 or so.
And so we have a very good program there in conjunction with the Public Utilities Commission.
Like I said, these are mandated for rail. But we don't necessarily do this across the entire agency.
So the areas where we want to improve is to implement a very similar program for bus
operations, and then also for commuter rail. And another tactic under this item would be to
develop and implement a district-wide change management, configuration modification process.
So we have a couple of these in different places within the organization, but they're not allinclusive across the district. So we need to do a better job at that.
Switching into security, a few tactics to help enhance the security part of the organization-- rail
security enhancements, utilize a task force approach to fair inspection, and high activity crime
spots, again, using good data collection and data analysis to help us dictate where we need to use
our resources. Coordinate station patrols with law enforcement officers in our communities
based upon shared crime statistic data, so also sharing of information with our local agencies.
Next item is internal security, education, training, and marketing program. We'll start with
surveys with employees to gauge what the perceptions are. We're going to establish a Security
and Safety Continuous Improvement Committee. That includes union representatives, security
team members, and RTD management, to meet on a regular basis.
We're going to look at how we can advance our emergency management programs. This is an
area where I think, just due to our nature of operations, our teams are just very-- they're nimble.
They're flexible. They can respond. They can react.
Examples include when we have these severe weather events or other things. It's like second
nature for our Operations Team to be able to respond. But there's always room for us to improve
on the plan side of this and our procedure side of this.

So we have a couple of tactics in mind here. One is to develop a mass notification protocol for
specific employee work groups in the entire organization, utilizing a framework that we already
have in place called ReadyOps. We'll pursue FTA and TSA (Transportation Safety
Administration) grant funding for the creation of a Permanent Emergency Operation Center to be
housed at the Security Command Center or other designated facility.
We've applied for funding for this a couple of years in the past. We've not been successful. We're
going to keep trying.
Increase security measures for bus operations-- we want to reinforce our de-escalation culture
with our operators, with regular training and bulletins. We want to provide more uniformed,
contracted police and transit police presence instead of plainclothes police on bus routes. While
these various tactics are effective for various reasons, we think the actual presence piece and
improving that visibility will be helpful.
And then lastly, I think what I'll mention under this area-- well, I have two other items-- asset
management and safety really go hand-in-hand. And so the Asset Management Division work
will continue to support this particular strategic priority of strengthening safety and security. And
then the last item that I have-- and I will say right now, I did not get a paragraph written up on
this as part of the Tactical Plan on page 16.
But it is cybersecurity. But I did include it earlier in this part of the tactical plan. And we have
some plans to look at where cybersecurity reports within the organization now, to move that to
reporting to a higher level of the organization, including a dashed report to the General Manager.
And that would include monthly cybersecurity meetings with the cyber staff, just the cyber staff,
and the Cybersecurity Team and the General Manager.
And I think we are now on to our final strategic priority. It's certainly not the least, but a very
interesting one. You will see that this section's almost written like a term paper.
There's some footnotes in there that bring you to some resources and things. And I was really-- I
won't take you through all the detail in this, but I would really encourage you to read through it.
Because it's got a lot of great detail, and a lot of great references, and a lot of interesting
information.
The Board knows we cover a wide area, 2,400 square miles, 40 cities, and eight counties,
population of about 3.1 million. About 57% of Colorado's population is within our service area.
According to APTA Factbook of 2017, we rank 15th as the largest transit agency based on
unlinked passenger trips. We rank 14th based on most transit travel. We rank 15th based on
transit travel per capita, and the 12th largest bus agency based on unlinked passenger trips.
Sometimes, I wish they just had a ranking of you're the 10th or you're the 12th. But it's in all
these different categories. So it's hard to say when somebody says, well, where do you rank in
terms of agencies? Another one, I guess we covered it by the unlinked passenger trips, but it's
ridership.

I think that's important for us to point out. And it's important for us to talk about. And you may
have heard me talk before about I think that a lot of times people don't see Denver as a transit
city.
But when you look at the size of our agency compared to other cities and other metros across the
United States, we definitely are a very significant transit city. And I think that's even a more
important message that we need to tell our own constituents. Because I don't think people that
live here think that we are a very significant transit city. So that's one of our messages that we'll
be working on through Pauletta's plan.
So I wanted to talk to start off, before we kind of get into some tactics here, about the current
state factors that contribute to ridership. And then we'll get into the focus areas. So I think the
Board knows and is familiar with the industry-wide, the national ridership trends that we see.
Generally, light rail and commuter rail ridership are increasing. That's what we're seeing in our
system. Bus rapid transit ridership is increasing. We're seeing that here with our Flatiron Flyer.
And overall, bus ridership is decreasing.
There is a chart in the document that shows the last 10 years. I will just say, as you look at that
chart, pay attention to the narrative in this paragraph. Because it talks about other things that you
don't just see on the chart, like all the different lines we've opened, and some different things that
add perspective to that information that's in the chart.
And the other thing that is important to notice is that as we build out rail lines, some of that
replaces bus lines. So some of that drop in bus ridership, it's hard for us to be able to measure
what that is. We really can't identify that, but some of our decrease is probably because we've
opened a number of rail lines over the last few years. And so we've probably had some shift from
bus over to rail. Because as the Board knows, in some situations, bus routes are replaced by some
of the main rail corridors. And then, of course, we have the bus feeder service.
Some interesting information I do want to share, though, because this is, I think, a little bit
different. There's another paragraph in this document that talks about a couple of articles on ride
hailing and ride sharing and teleworking. But I think the Denver experience may be a little bit
different and maybe not as severe.
And so I think you're familiar, most of you have probably seen the surveys that the Downtown
Denver Partnership does on commuting. They do one every year. The 12th annual one just came
out, and they've got some interesting statistics.
So about 39.9%-- this is this year's statistics-- 39.9% of downtown Denver employees commute
by public transit. So that's a pretty significant number in my mind. And I will tell you, over the
last few years that I've been watching this survey, it's always hovered around that level-- 39.9%,
40% or so. And so I think that's a very impressive and important number for us.
And this is the largest share of all of the modes, with driving alone being the next one at 34.5%,
followed by bike at 9%, walk at 6.9%, carpool/vanpool at 4.1%, telework at 2.4%, scooter at

1.7%, which is higher than Lyft, Uber and taxi at 1.5%. And so this is just survey information
that Denver does. I don't know how they capture it. I don't know the statistical validity of it, but I
think it's good information.
Another bit of information according to a Visit Denver survey, approximately 29% of visitors
that come into Denver International Airport utilize the University of Colorado A Line to travel
downtown. And that is also the largest market share with the next one, I believe, is right around
28%. And that's taxi, cab, limo, TNCs, and things like that.
That number is actually down a little bit than from the first year we were open. So we're working
with Visit Denver to continue to advertise, of course. And they do a great job of that, of reaching
out on the University of Colorado A Line. And we're working with a lot of partnerships with
them on selling advanced tickets through mobile ticketing to large groups that come in, so they
can have their tickets in advance.
Well, so we want to work on maintaining and growing the market share. Most of the ridership
gains that we assume will be coming from FasTracks with growth in existing corridors, but also
includes the opening of the G Line in '19, the opening of the N Line in early 2020. In 2025 on the
base system, we assume that ridership will increase slightly due to population growth. But no
additional funds are included in the long-range financial plan for service increases on the base
system, except for State Highway 119 in 2023.
So that's an important thing to keep in mind, especially as we start to move into the budgeting
process. So it's just good to be cognizant of what's in the mid-term financial plan and what's not.
And one thing that's not is expansion of our base system or rubber tire service.
But we do-- there's also a chart in here that we do predict an overall increasing trend. And next, I
just want to look at some factors that contribute to ridership. And the first one I'll talk about is
fuel. So while it's hard to make a direct correlation with fuel prices, we do think it's an impact.
As fuel is more expensive, we do tend to see increases in ridership.
Of course, there's lots of other variables that go along with this, like the economy, the
accessibility of the car. But if you compare gas prices to ridership along the same time frame-and we have some information in here on gas prices-- there seems to be some correlation. But it's
hard to determine if that alone is a sole cause and effect.
An interesting thing we're seeing, though, is car ownership. And we've talked about this before.
And I think this is a big factor in contributing to decreases in ridership within the district.
And it's increasing. Car ownership is, in Colorado, is actually increasing at a greater rate than
population. So that's kind of an issue, whereas as population grows, those are our possible riders.
But if car ownership is growing at a more rapid rate than population, obviously, more people are
getting in cars. And that creates less transit trips. And so in fact, car ownership increased about
7% and population only increased about 3%.

But the other factor is why is car ownership, I think, so accessible now is that we have a good
economy. We have low unemployment. We have lower costs of operation of a car. And car
ownership does lead to fewer transit trips.
So ride hailing-- interesting that this is fairly new. We really don't know the exact impact of ride
hailing on ridership in Denver. And we continue to collaborate with TNCs (Transit Network
Companies) to hopefully improve first- and last-mile connections to our system. But also
included in this paragraph, as you have time-- there's some research in here that indicates that
maybe TNCs are having a greater impact than the industry thinks. So I will leave that with you.
And then I'll just remind you that in the Partnership Survey, they said this was the lowest mode
share at 1.5%.
So teleworking-- so this is another thing that's difficult for us to measure. What are the impacts
of telecommuting on ridership? And we had the numbers from the partnership, about 2.4% of the
downtown Denver workforce uses telework. We know from our experiences and trying to recruit
and retain employees that flexible schedules, being able to work from home, and telework is
becoming more and more popular.
I know from talking to other businesses that there are more and more companies that are offering
almost like a day a week for people to telecommute. So it is becoming a popular option. There's
information in here that some of the research says that it is growing quite rapidly. So that's
something that is just a factor, that I don't know if there's anything we can do to try to attract
teleworkers onto transit, unless it's a quick trip for an errand or something.
The next item is service. And then among the factors that affect public transportation ridership,
service supply variables are typically some of the most important. So these are things like the
frequency, the hours of service, the type of service, whether it's urban versus suburban.
We have reliability. We have trip time, coordination with municipalities and how they do their
land use and the design, safety, geographic coverage. All of these things affect our ability to
deliver service, and what kinds of service that we deliver, and the convenience that people
perceive out of doing that.
A couple of agencies have had some pretty good experience with reorienting their bus networks
to meet changing demand. Seattle, Houston, and Austin are good examples of that. They've
restructured to provide more frequency where they need to provide more frequency.
And others have substantially increased service since 2013. And still more are gaining ridership
after revamping their bus networks. And of course, this is a lot of what we'll be looking at in our
T2 work over the next year and a half or so.
So ridership gains can definitely be made through service and system optimization and working
with municipalities. So fares are one of the things that impact ridership. And the Board is
familiar with our policy, that we look a-- every three years, we look at a fare increase for the
Board to consider.

And in fact, we build that into the modeling when we do the midterm financial plan. So I think
the last time we talked midterm financial plan with the Board, we were asked, well, could we
have an alternative that shows if we don't assume the two fare increases in the six-year period?
And Heather and I have talked about that.
So we're going to be able to have like a one line that says, OK, if we don't do fare increases on
the two three-year cycles within the six-year midterm financial plan, this is how big the number
in red will be. But you'll be able to see that, and will be able to make decisions based on that.
So we know that fares, as they go up, it is more challenging. So we've included some
information in here. There's a chart that shows our local fare, from 2008 being $1.75 to where it
is in 2019 at being $3. And I'll also remind the Board, too, that with the 2019 adjustments, we
made that more than just a one-way fare and transfer.
It's good for three hours, which a lot of transit agencies don't do. It's probably typical that their
fares are good for an hour, an hour and a half. In fact, I was talking to one of the media this
morning about the cost of the G Line.
And when he asked, I said it was a local fare. And he said, so if I buy a $3 fare, so I ride
downtown. And then I got to buy another $3 fare and come back?
And I said, well, it depends how quick you make the trip. I said, it's a 26-minute ride one way.
So if you go down and you're not-- if you go from Wheat Ridge to Union Station, you're not
down there very long and you can catch another train and make it within the three-hour window,
it's a $3 roundtrip. So I think that's an important thing that we need to keep messaging around
what we did with that fare change.
So a couple of interesting things I'll point out, and then I'll get into the tactics. And then we'll
turn it over for questions. We know through some modeling-- there's some figures in here that I
wanted to talk about.
If we kept the fare the same as 2018, the modeling predicted that ridership was projected to be
about 1.7% higher over the three-year period, 2019 to 2021, than it would have been with a fare
increase. However, there would have been a drop in projected revenue in that same time period
of about $35 million, which is about 7%.
So in order to make up that $35 million in fare revenue with ridership, boardings would need to
increase by approximately 11.6 million boardings or 12%. So this is just kind of interesting, I
think relevant, current information that shows what that trade-off looks like. So the key is finding
the right balance between fares and ridership.
So what are our focus areas for 2020? Comprehensive service review. You know we do this
three times a year, but we are going to take that not just a step further. We're going to go way
further through 2019 and 2020.

We haven't really done a real wholesale look at service for probably 15 years or so, when we
looked at the bus network, other than the changes we do three times a year, and of course, the
corridor redevelopments that we do when we changed the service plan with the corridor opening.
So we think we have some opportunity with this comprehensive service review.
Regarding new service, the only anticipated increase of service will be as a result of the two new
FasTracks lines opening in 2019 and 2020 and improvements on State Highway 119, which will
probably be implemented in 2025. And then service standards-- another opportunity to just
continue to review and look at our service standards.
And then the next area I wanted to talk about is reliability in terms of service, and then in terms
of transit priority. The Board is very aware that because of our operator shortage, we do have
issues with dropped runs. So that goes to reliability.
If a person has a-- if we miss a run and that person doesn't have their bus trip, then that makes
them think twice about do I want to take the bus again. So we know this is a factor. And so this is
one of our biggest issues around reliability on at least fixed-route bus.
We're working towards making improvements. While the trend has been increasing annually, I
think over the last probably half a dozen months or so, we've been experiencing a decrease in
those dropped runs, I think with the exception of March, when we had the storm issues. So even
though we still delivered over 99% of our scheduled bus service in 2018.
So there's opportunity to continue to optimize our service and continue strong recruitment and
retention efforts. And then there's opportunity for reliability under transit priority. And this
relates to what the district is just working on, our network analysis of potential improvements
around transit enhancements.
And we're working with a variety of municipalities now. There's a few projects in the DRCOG
2020 to 2023 Transportation Improvement Plan, or TIP, where we're going to be working with
some local jurisdictions to make some transit signal priority and other improvements along
Havana, Broadway, Federal, West Colfax, Downing, 17th, and 18th, and 12th Avenue.
And then the last item I'll talk about under here is our ticketing and collaborations. And we know
that a lot of ridership is influenced by convenience. And so we provide a lot of different ways for
people to purchase fares.
And the most recent one that we've just introduced a number of years ago was Mobile Ticketing
app. It's become very popular, with over 1.5 million tickets, about 8% of our fare revenue. It
continues to increase.
We have our recent collaboration with Uber and with Lyft, trying to just make people more
aware, and provide different opportunities for them to engage with the transit system. Our
smartcard system-- we have a great opportunity here. Our current smartcard system is what we
call a "card-based system."

And that's where all the information sits on the card. And it's not a very flexible technology. It's
not a very flexible way to manage accounts.
We were just recently successful, through the DRCOG TIP process, to get a grant to begin
transitioning from a card-based system to an account-based. Now, that doesn't mean that a
stored-value card will go away. It just means that all of the information, all the back officing,
will be account-based instead of sitting on the card.
It gives us a lot more flexibility with what we can do in terms of all of our different fare products
that are on the smartcard platform, and including the mobile platform. And in fact, the back
office for this account-based system will be our mobile ticketing provider through Masabi. And
so the great thing is that unlike a traditional, older-style smartcard program like we started in
2010, this platform is much more nimble.
We can do it much more quickly for much less money. And we get a lot more flexibility on that.
And that is something that we're eager to get working on.
So that was a lot of information. I tried to get through it as expeditiously as I possibly could. And
now we are really happy to take any questions, or input, or comments that you all have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. First of all, congratulations to
you and to the Senior Leadership Team for an excellent presentation. Let me point out before we
go to the comments of the Board, to repeat what General Manager has said, this is not your last
or your only chance as Board members to address these priorities and these considerations.
It is not your last chance to address the General Manager's tactical goals. Repeated opportunities
will be provided over the coming weeks. So if you've had a lot of information, and you don't
have comments you wish to make now, please, not to worry. You absolutely will have other
opportunities.
And I emphasize this principally because some comments have been made in the past where one
or another Director may have disliked or disagreed with an evaluation criteria associated with the
General Manager. And the point is, this is your chance, as you speak now and as we go through
the General Manager Oversight Committee work, to weigh in on that. Because we want everyone
to be engaged.
So enough of that disclaimer. Let me recognize first, Director Williams. You are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. General Manager Genova, on page 5 under the Transit
Equity priority, there's a great deal of opportunities. I don't see any place that we are making
allowances for language. And so I'd like to see us include language in some of those categories.
I'm channeling Director Archuleta. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Director. Appreciate that. Good observation.
Director Lubow, you are recognized.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm wondering, I'm recognized as what? But
nonetheless, I've got-- thank you very much for that very extensive presentation. I've got some
comments about things that I would like to see expanded.
My sense is that one of the things you were talking about was that this thing was so unwieldy
that you were trying to kind of retract it to reasonable size, some of the goals. But I would like to
see them expanded, and still, hopefully, it won't be so unwieldy. But so let me just quickly go
over the first priority, strengthen transparent public communication.
I've said this before-- it seems to be hard to get it included, but I think we've had a problem in the
past in not going where the anger or the turmoil has been greatest. And I would really love that to
be a priority-- that we go where the people are the angriest because there's problems, and we go
there not later but sooner. And I'd like to see that as like a sign put up in an office.
Let's go where it's going to hurt, because I think that's where we're needed the most. Because I
live in an area that is like that. So you understand. OK.
OK, the idea of fostering partnerships-- I have suggested this for a long time. And it seems to be
hard to-- maybe people just don't want to do this. But I think it would be excellent to do on a
yearly basis, asking our stakeholders how are we doing, and tell us what's not working, and how
can we work better together. Because to me, that's a real partnership, where you can be honest
with each other. And I would love to see that happen.
And the other thing that I personally would like to see-- and I know this is time consuming-- but
we go out to the public three times a year with our changes, with our routes. And I've been told
by people that they would have loved to have heard about the proposed changes ahead of time, to
kind of make suggestions ahead of time that could have changed the proposed changes. So I
don't want us chasing our tails, but I would love to see more communication prior to going to the
official public, by saying, here's this problem. Do you have any suggestions about how we can
solve it?
I don't know if we can do that, but I would love to see that happen. So that's the first one. Thank
you.
The next one has to do with the equity, which I think is incredibly important. But it's funny-- I'm
very anarchistic, even though I'm a lawyer. And so to just define equity as under the Civil Rights
Act, to me, is limiting.
I think it's incredibly important to make sure we have the equity that is the legal equity under the
Civil Rights definition. But when I was talking about equity at the retreats, I had a much broader.
Guess what I was talking about? The rail.
And that's not addressed here. And also not addressed here is the other concept of equity, that has
nothing to do with race and all those very important things, but the equity of some people getting
no transit. And to me, that's unequitable.

And I would love to see that included in our work around fairness. Maybe the word shouldn't be
"equity." It should just be "fairness." And I would like to see a broader definition of that than just
the legal Civil Rights Act definition, which is not negating that legal Civil Rights Act definition.
And I think-- did I have anything more? Oh, yes. The enhanced current and future transportation
methods-- I know one when I talked about this at the retreat, I was hoping that this would include
making sure that we move forward on FasTracks, that it wasn't just the new technology.
But that didn't get included here. And I would once again like to raise it. When we were talking
about enhancing current and future transportation methods, I would like to see us think also
about finishing FasTracks. So that's it for me. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Appreciate your observations and
comments. Next let us turn to Director Whitmore. You are up, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Lubow, I echo almost all of your
comments. You were very eloquent in your presentation. Thank you very much.
First of all, in my real-life job, I sit on that side of the table. So I understand how much work this
is. Folks, it is a tremendous amount of work, and I appreciate how much time it takes from your
core functions to do this.
I'm just a little concerned about the lack of equity discussion, to go back to what Director Lubow
said. I think we-- some of us, anyway, at the retreat wanted to go past the law. The Civil Rights
component certainly has to happen.
I know transit demand is one of the items listed on the second line. Maybe that covers it. But I
look at geographic location and disparities.
And I guess I'm looking for a little creativity on how to get to a little more balanced approach
between the science and the art. The science is there. We have numbers. We know what's
underperforming. We know what we need to do to increase ridership.
But on the other hand, on the art side, there's just this basic, minimum fairness. And I feel like
there are spots in our huge district that we don't, maybe, have that, or at least it needs to be
revisited. And it's not just in my district. It's Director Catlin's district and Buzek's and Lubow,
and probably Natalie's, as well-- Director Menten, sorry. No, OK, thank you.
So I guess in wrapping up, maybe there needs to be some mention of this equity exercise on the
final sheet, Mr. Genova. It just seems to be kind of absent, not that any of those items are not
important. Maybe it's a comprehensive service review-- maybe that includes it. Probably through
you guys that does. I think it needs to be stated. So appreciate your hard work on this. Thank
you, Mr. Chair.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Appreciate your observations as well. We
turn, then, to Director Buzek. You are recognized, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I will also start by saying I agree with Directors
Lubow and Whitmore with regard to their comments on equity. And again, I also want to thank
staff for all the hard work you guys put into this.
This is not an easy task, because we're at the retreat in March, and we're writing things on 100
sheets of paper. And you guys have to take all of that, and boil that down into something that
seems to make sense. And I think you got a lot of what we were pushing for, but I don't think
you got some of the other stuff.
And the equity one is that is the key. And I was just looking at the memo that is a summary of
the March meeting. And three of the four breakout work groups came back with equity issues
that related to build out, and build out of the base and FasTracks system, and not specifically the
Title VI stuff, which is critically important.
And I don't see it here spelled out in a bold fashion in this document. I would really love to see
that stated more clearly, more comprehensively. Because that's very important to at least five, if
not more of the Directors at this table.
So and First Vice Chair Catlin has talked about-- and some of us talked about this issue of
coverage without regard to population, and how important that is to actually have a system that
makes sense-- to have a system. Sometimes, you can't just look at the numbers, because then, if
that were the case, we'd have a crazy system that didn't make a lot of sense.
So I'll stop there with the equity stuff. Some of the other stuff, too, I think to me, this seems kind
of filtered down to taking all the stuff we had and putting it into categories that you guys think
you can get done. And I understand that.
I mean, you want to get this stuff done. But I don't see anything in here that I look at it and say,
wow, if you guys could do this, whoa, that would be fantastic I don't see any big wow-factor
stuff in here, and I think some of our goals should strive and reach for that, even if we can't get
them. So I'll leave it there. Thanks so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate your comments, Director Buzek. And I
think it's always nice to think about great ideas, as well. Director Catlin, you've actually been
speaking all along, it turns out, because I mismanaged how I put the display up on the board. So
Madam Vice Chair, you are now recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I have to agree with what Directors Lubow, Whitmore, and
now Buzek said about the equity piece, including coverage for some of the lower populated
districts. But I also was-- and this is a great document, but not having had time to review it in
advance, I don't think I'm prepared to make some real meaningful comments tonight.

But at first blush, the thing that struck me was that-- well, two things. One, that there was no
increase to the base service. And I wanted to see something that talked about creatively looking
at ways to improve coverage.
And whether that's with FlexRide, whether that's with-- I've stated before that I think we ought to
see if we can leverage CDOT's managed lane proposals, to see about introducing new service on
uncongested managed lanes to see if we might be able to increase ridership, particularly in the
east/west direction in the south part of the district.
So I wanted to see some creativity in there. And Director Buzek used the "wow factor." I'm not
going to go quite bold, but really just see if we can look at some creative ways of enhancing
service to those underserved areas. And when it says there's no planned increase to the base
system, the one thing I hear consistently from my constituents is, why don't we have service
here?
Or we used to have service. Why don't we have it anymore? And I think that with some creative
solutions or even some pilot projects, we might be able to really turn the corner on that. So thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Appreciate your observations on
that. Director Williams, before I go to you, let me ask if Director Folska has something that she
would like to add at this point in time. Director Folska, are you there? And do you have a
comment or question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am. And thank you, Chair Tisdale. I appreciate this time. General
Manager Genova, thank you very much for your excellent and extensive presentation, and to the
Senior Leadership Team for all the hard work and the assistance.
I will echo the sentiments of my colleagues on the Board with regard to equity, and that the Civil
Rights Act and the Colorado act that you mentioned-- I think when we think of those, along with
the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act), those are the baseline, the basic where we begin
from. It's not the ceiling, per se. It's a starting space. It can't be less than that, but it can be so
much more than that.
And with that, I don't recall hearing anything about people with disabilities in your equity
discussion or actually, anywhere else in there. And I could have heard it. Maybe you did have it
there or it's printed, but I didn't have that ahead of time. So I think it is important that we talk
about the people that we serve that we always include people with disabilities in the
conversation. They are very much a part of our system.
When it comes to the communication area, and again, like Director Catlin said, I'm listening to it.
I don't even have anything to look at. I know I got it sent to me, but I can't really do that and
listen at the same time. So this is from my memory.
The communication plan, it sounds pretty good. But it seems very top down. And my hope is that
it could be more bottom up.

And you will recall that in 2014, we had the I Love My RTD art contest. And in one week, it
generated 57,662 hits on our website for people voting. And those teachers and students are still
talking about it today.
And it was a real minimal cost, but it was a real grassroots kind of engagement. And that's what I
think of as engagement. For other contests, such as naming things, that the community can be
engaged in, that they feel like this is their RTD.
What also struck me in your presentation was when you talked about going to APTA meetings
with other CEOs of transport agencies, they don't think of Denver as a transit town. But RTD
isn't just Denver. As you stated, it's 2,400 square miles, is that right?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's a huge area. And so the idea that people think RTD is just Denver, and
all the data that you got about people coming into Denver, come visit Denver, Denver-- whoever
in Denver. It's all Denver. I think if you could get the same type of information from all of the
municipalities within the district, you would serve the district better, and that you would have a
better view of what's going on in the district.
And I would also kind of want for you to think about the audit, that 2015 audit [INAUDIBLE] of
the Communications Department and how that was looked at, and treated, and addressed. And I
still haven't seen that addressed yet. And then, as far as safety and security goes, I would like to
see us have an executive session on some very deep, serious domestic or foreign terrorist
conversations. Transit systems across the globe are soft targets. And so I think that it's necessary
and appropriate to have this. And that all for me. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. I will, for the sake of the record, note
that Director Walker did advise us that he has signed off. And I think it's just appropriate that we
know that.
And also, to respond to Director Folska's comment about the size of the district, yes, it's
approximately 2,400 square miles. And the city and county of Denver is approximately 155
square miles. Treasurer Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And a couple of things-- one, I wanted to echo something
that Director First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin had said, that we just got this tonight. So I haven't
had a chance-- I mean, there's so much here. It's really interesting, really good stuff. But I don't
feel like I've had a chance to argument organize my thoughts about it.
And I kind of hope we'd have another bite at this apple. And I don't know if we can set another
session like this, or just some way of getting information, and then reflecting some, thinking
about it, back to you all, or back to the Board with you, or something. I just wanted to request
that.

On a couple of things that were brought up, it's clear that we're talking about equity beyond just
the Title VI, and so forth. But when we talk about it, I heard Director Lubow mentioned the
buildout, so the provision of services where we promise them, but didn't yet provide them. And
then I've heard, also, talk about minimum coverage level for some area.
So if we're going to-- and I think it's worth talking about that, and about some of the trade-offs,
and making a decision about what service level or what that means, specifically. So having,
maybe, a session to talk about that would be helpful to you as you try to identify what our service
planning should be as a result. And then I love the idea of also identifying some creative pilot
projects, maybe as a way to address some of that minimum service level. I don't know, you begin
to get some brainstorming or some effort on your part to talk about that.
And when I met with Heather McKillop today, we talked about maybe having a fund that we, as
a Board, could approve for trying new things out. That would give you all some flexibility to
begin to do some of that. So those were my first three thoughts. But I did hope that we could talk
about it again later, after we've had a chance to go through this.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer Cook. As I pointed out, I'll say
again, and as Mr. General Manager Genova said, there will be repeated opportunities to
comment on this over the coming weeks. This is not the only chance that you will have.
And as General Manager Genova said, you are absolutely invited and encouraged to contact him
directly. Spend some time on the phone. Spend some time in person, and explore these issues as
he works on the preparation of the General Manager's Tactical Goals for submission to the
GMOC, which GMOC process is open to every single Board member.
So I'm going to keep saying that over and over. Because I want people to make sure they
understand that point. Let me, Director Williams, ask you for patience. Actually, did you want to
respond right now, Director Cook? Let me recognize you for that.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to follow up on that thought-- it's one thing for us to provide you with
individual viewpoints. But I think it'll be more effective on some key issues, for example that
question of what regional equity means, to meet again as a Board, and come to some ideas about
that. At least that's my opinion.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director Williams, I'm
going to ask you to bear with us once again, because Director Menten has not had an opportunity
to speak yet. So let me recognize her first. So Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. As we discuss the equity issue, and in getting the document-and I read it over dinner, so I had a little bit of a heads up-- I think it became very, from my
perspective, clear that how equity was addressed in this document was not really how it was-- the
main people were speaking about that were not talking about federal title issues. They were
talking about the lines.

And before staff goes down a road, I think this needs to be cleared up as to who was speaking
about what part of equity. Otherwise, we are just burning money and time. So I don't know how
to do that, and I'll look to the rest of the Board. But I think it's very clear that there is some
confusion about this issue.
That now out of my way, I'll ask a couple of my own personal interests. Fiscal sustainability-that was to be interwoven into the five issues, correct?
DAVE GENOVA: And I didn't bring it up, and I apologize for that. But it's in the cover memo
that is the top of the plan. And it basically says the Board reached consensus on five strategic
priorities while ensuring fiscal sustainability of the agency.
So that's an overriding principle applied to all of the strategic priorities. And so Chair, I'd
actually like to talk a little bit about that based on some of the comments that have been made.
Because I think there's some interesting things that I can get the Board thinking about in terms of
trade-offs and priorities, as we're talking about additional services and things like that. But it's-so the mention of it in the cover letter is just that-- that it applies to all of them.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. With that in mind, then, you all know that financial
transparency in the agency, and meaning a detailed check register available for somebody at
midnight to know a line item is good for the agency, it's good for our customers, it's good for
competitive bidding. And I look at other local entities-- Jefferson County, cities within the metro
area, Arvada, Northglenn-- there's a long list.
We don't at all look like their financial transparency. We look like a PDF that you download on a
month-to-month basis, and if you know how to search PDF. And then extract it, put it all
together, compile it with other months, you're going to get a whole year-- not at all what I would
like to see. So for me, that's a big priority.
And I know we're working through the modules with Oracle. But we are talking about-- I mean,
we have a lot of technology available to us, and I would like to see it happen quick. Any savings
that we can find there help go towards that equity to build out these other lines. So that's one
thing I'll bring up.
And then I recently asked-- I believe I sent the email, but maybe it was one of those where you
start the email and then you don't-- you're going to add something, and you don't quite send it. I
think I asked for the two T2 proposals. Because this is a big part of our package. T2 is mentioned
how many times in here?
And I think I sent it to you, Rolf, my request, along with others. Because we've got these two
proposals on April 16th, which I realize is not that long ago, from the company Felsburg Holt
and Ullevig and HDR Engineering. And I would like to know how soon I could see those
proposals.

DAVE GENOVA: We-- I meant to talk to Rolf about that today, because I asked Barbara
McManus. I said, I don't think we responded to Director Menten. So we owe you a response on
that, and we'll respond to you. We're in the procurement process, though, now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. With that all in line, when we said we wanted transformation, we
want innovation in transportation, I had no clue in my brain that it was going to cost a line item
in the budget of $4.7 million. So it clearly taught me to be careful what you wish for.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE GENOVA: More dialogue to come.
NATALIE MENTEN: Maybe magic will come out of this, but you all got a thumb drive with the
amount of studies that we've done at RTD. And some of you wondered, why am I getting this
drive? Well, simply I wanted the data, but staff's normal process is to give you all something. So
sorry. I didn't shove it at you. It's for my own reading, all right?
When are we going to be able to tell, with all of these plans which right now are 25 pages, how
many-- and this is all about determining what the budget is going to be. What is it going to cost
for our wish list? So when are we going to be able to tell how many FTEs this will add on to
RTD? How many substantial line items? I know we're going to be waiting on the midterm, but
that's going into summertime. So is there any way to give me an indication now how many more
employees these wish lists may take to fulfill?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. General Manager, if you're in a position to answer that now, fine.
Otherwise, if you wish to provide that information to the full Board at a time when you've had a
chance to compile that, you may do that. But you're certainly free to respond however you
choose now.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I would say that tonight, this tactical plan is a narrative. So it's a
narrative, and its intent is to try to flush out from the five strategic priorities that came out of the
retreat ideas, tactics, options. Certainly, we can't do everything that's identified.
So our next step is based on everything we're hearing in the input. Then we'll work as a Senior
Leadership Team to put together the very specific proposed task goals that will then go to the
General Manager Oversight Committee. So it's when we get to that phase where we'll have a
better idea of what the budget impacts are, what the FTE impacts are.
But I want to, because there's been quite a few comments about that, if I may, Mr. Chair, a little
bit, because I think it's informative. So when I mentioned that there's no increase to service, that's
what the Board approved in last year's mid-term financial plan. The Board did not approve any
increase to the base system service in last year's MTP (mid-term plan).

And the reason was it was a heck of a job to balance the MTP. You saw it several times come to
the Board. And we had to defer many, many state of good repair projects and other kinds of
things.
So our financial condition hasn't changed. We don't have room to expand, unless we want to start
talking about trade-offs. And those will be some very challenging discussions, based on what I'm
hearing tonight on terms of coverage and standards.
I mean, these are just difficult conversations that we'll have to have. I'm not saying that we can't
have them, or I mean, we have lots of ideas. And I probably didn't flesh out in enough detail
some of the things about pilots and creative and innovative areas. Because we definitely
mentioned a few things in the document, and we have things ongoing now.
So the short answer is, I can't tell you tonight. Because this, as I said, this is a broad description
of these category areas. And our job now is to narrow it down, based on what we're hearing from
the collective Board, to what the goals could look like for 2020. And they will drive the budget
for 2020, and then also the mid-term financial plan. I hope that makes sense.
NATALIE MENTEN: It does. And I'm comfortable with your answer. And I'm also comfortable
knowing that for you, you know that I'm very concerned about what does the wish list cost?
DAVE GENOVA: We understand completely.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I know you are, too.
DAVE GENOVA: Because we're very limited in what we can do.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Yeah. All right, so let me-- I do want to add in one thing. As we
start to look at equity and rightsizing our system, I'm willing to make the sacrifices in district and
go to the constituents to do that. I think I've been very clear.
When we had the Belmar Call-n-Ride right after the W Line opened, and we were paying $45
subsidy per boarding, that's not acceptable. So I didn't sit there and say, let's strike it out. Let's
strike it out. Let's strike it out. And let's just keep going years and years and years.
And so I want to let you know that when we go to rightsize this agency during the remainder of
my term, I will go to the constituents and the taxpayers. Because a majority of the Board
meetings I go to, there's more people there who don't ride RTD but they fund it than ride it. And
they are very appreciative to have a RTD Director that is looking out for those dollars.
So all I'm trying to say to you is, I have no problem going to the constituents and telling them it
is the responsible thing to do when we need to do that. That's all I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And Mr. General Manager, I want you to
know what I'd like to do after we get through all of the comments from the Directors, is to give
you a chance to respond to some of these, particularly as you wish to expand upon any such
ideas that are shared. And I think for example, the transportation equity I've heard a number of
folks, I think, who probably expressed what I best recall, too, that it was more than just saying,
do we satisfy federal law constraints, but more of what's the gut equity fairness through the
district. With that, let me recognize someone who has not yet spoken. And that will be Director
Guissinger. So Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thanks for all of your hard work on this. I
think it's a great start. I look forward to spending more time with it.
I want to start with just a tiny little thing I heard, that kind of triggered my marketing brain. And
Director Lubow and I spoke with some leaders of the chambers in the Northwest Corridor this
week. And you said one of the men who actually lives in Aurora was concerned about fares and
where those are going.
And it hasn't occurred to me to answer the fare question with what you said, which is if you have
a three-hour period, and as we open the G Line, and the SERE (Southeast Rail Extension) and N
Line, and all of those things, there are things that people can do with the three-hour period that
might be really worth it. It makes a big difference if it's a $3 round trip than-- so just a little
thought that maybe we could give people examples, getting into Olde Town Arvada or
something.
I would also-- I guess I would say I echo some of these things. You answered one of my
questions. I wasn't aware of the no new base service issue. And it's interesting. I'd love to hear
more about what that would look like, what that does look like. I generally get it. And I would
echo some of the thoughts about the meaning of equity. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Williams, you are recognized again.
KATE WILLIAMS: Based on everybody's comments on equity, and based on the rant that I
made about the resolution, I have done some homework. And I am speaking now to the members
of the Board, and not to the General Manager and his staff, because I want everybody to realize
that I learned something-- that there is more to the completion of FasTracks than the train to
Longmont. I spoke with people who are affected by the L Line and the D Line.
I spoke to neighborhood organizations in Denver, to the Denver Chamber, to the Downtown
Denver Partnership. And what I got were some very interesting comments to me about what the
completion of FasTracks means. And it's relevant to the equity that we are all talking about.
And it is not indigenous solely to the northwest area. It affects Director Catlin, where there is not
a lot of service. It affects downtown Denver, where we are operating at 80-some percent of
potential efficiency, where we are leaving people because there is no driver.

And it was very much a lesson for me that I would like to share with everybody, that one of the
most interesting statements that was made to me-- and I did a lot of homework this week and I
am not done yet-- was that RTD needs to look at trade-offs. They need to look at commitments.
They need to look at promises that were made, and what their reputation is now, and that we
need to honestly look at rightsizing for everybody.
It was a very humbling experience for me. And it is speaking to equity in the true sense of the
word, having nothing to do with race, religion, creed, but having to do with how people are
served by what they perceive to be their public entity. So thank you very much for allowing me
the chance to speak again.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. And particularly to note,
for the sake of those who may not have been here when we passed it, but the FasTracks
resolution that we passed on April 16th identified the four-- count them, four-- unfinished
corridors, which includes the North Line Extension, the Central Extension, the Northwest Rail,
and, near and dear to my heart, the SWRE, the Southwest Rail Extension, because the Southwest
Rail Extension actually is in my district. So I do definitely understand and appreciate that.
Madam Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. General Manager Genova, I really appreciate you
reminding us that the no increase in base service is based on the budget, the current budget. And
thank you for that.
I was-- maybe to put my comment in a little better context-- I was hoping that through the T2
process that we start looking at some possibilities for pilots or more creative ways to provide
coverage and service in some of those underserved areas. And I really liked what Director Cook
said, that she had talked with Heather McKillop about maybe some of these trade-offs, and
possibly looking at some pilots and other creative ways of maybe securing grants, and that kind
of thing, for some of the things I was talking about.
So it's really meant in the context of looking forward. And I do appreciate the reminder about the
fact that it was our approved budget. So thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Director Whitmore, you are
recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: One thing I forgot, and maybe it's fresh in my mind because I met with
Pauletta yesterday. But I want to compliment the communications plan. I think we've turned a
corner.
That was something that some of us were very concerned about. I think we've turned a corner.
And there's lots of examples.

Obviously, we're spreading good news now with the G Line. And that's easier, perhaps. But you
can do it the wrong way.
And so we're not doing it the wrong way. So congratulations on that. I see some great
components in here, so keep up the good work there.
One other thought-- when we talk about stretch goals and completion of FasTracks-- yes, we've
got four or five more major projects to do. But we also have other projects to do. And I recently
visited with a constituent that looked at the buildout of FasTracks, and noticed that the northeast
has nothing, in her opinion.
And I explained to her that this was passed in 2004, and that because some of us weren't-- I was
alive, but maybe Director Lewis wasn't, but-[LAUGHTER]
It's a compliment. But point being is, we do need to communicate that the FasTracks completion
is not the completion of what we may need to do to fast-growing corridors. And we have a
census coming up. Numbers are going to change.
We need to be flexible to address that. And maybe it won't be a train during my lifetime. But
maybe it will be during my son's lifetime.
Or maybe it's expansion of bus rapid transit. We've got Highway 7 to deal with. But we need to
be looking at getting up to the northeast where a lot of new homes are being built. So somewhat
to your point, Director Williams, and thank you for my second shot.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director, for taking it. Mr. General Manager, that appears to
finish up the speakers in the queue currently. And I promised you you'd have an opportunity to
address, to the extent that you wish to now, some of these comments.
We know you will address them over time. But if there's any comments you'd like to make now,
please feel free to do so. We'll come back to Director Menten later, because she's had a couple
bites, but will-- or one. I'm sorry, I apologize. I'm sure it was just one. I forgot. Unless you want
to let Director Menten go first? Director Menten, please proceed.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. My mouth is not full. I'm not sure that you know I've talked to
some of these CAC members. And right now, they're listed in here with this T2, and then helping
with the outreach on service changes. I know for a fact there's some of them that are not
interested, did not get on that committee to go out and talk about service changes.
They got on that committee because of completing the corridors. And we're paying. The hourly
rate to run the meetings in that room actually turns out to be really expensive.

I wonder if we're going in the right direction with what we do with the CAC. Maybe it says
we've got to have one. But there are some of them that feel their afternoon is completely wasted.
And they wonder why they're even on the committee.
And to go out and have them talk about service changes-- I think they should really be talked to
maybe one on one, or let a Board Director really have a private conversation with them. So I'm
just saying that's based on feedback. And thank you for my second bite of the apple.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Your second bite was even better than your first bite. Thank you very much,
Director. Now, Mr. Genova, should you want to offer any observations, this is your chance, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thanks, Mr. Chair. Just a few, and I'll be brief. So just to reiterate again that
as our next steps, I mean, this definitely drives the budget. We will do what the Board directs us
to do.
We appreciate all of your comments tonight. They're really valuable, each and every one of
them, for us to hear. And you saw us all taking notes, and we will be discussing all this while it's
fresh in our memory, first thing tomorrow morning, as we gather, and to just see what
collectively we all heard and where we need to make the appropriate changes.
We knew coming into tonight that the discussion on equity was going to broaden. But as we kind
of saw at the retreat, it was pretty broad, and somewhat multifaceted. So we wanted to start
somewhere, and so that's where we started. But we hear you. And we'll take that back.
So one thing-- so I already talked about the financial condition, and where we are with the MTP,
and where we are with the budget. But one thing that I just want the Board to start thinking about
is in 2011, I believe, the Board made a decision-- it was part of FasTracks-- to have 1% per year
was supposed to go towards expanding rubber tire service.
And there was a recommendation brought forward to the Board, and the Board adopted it, to put
that, to cap it at where it was, I believe, in 2012 or 2011. So we capped it. And instead of
increasing at 1% each year, that 1% is going to the FISA.
And so as we talk about trade-offs, expanding rubber tire service, other kinds of coverages and
things, we'll be bringing this up for discussion, both as we look at the budget and then also as we
start to flesh out the plan that's due to the Board in a couple of months on the FasTracks
resolution, which will be-- it won't be a complete full plan of here's the layout. It'll be kind of a
hybrid approach of a lot of information, but then also identifying just a lot of things we need to
do. Because it's just two months, less than two months away. So obviously, we can't put together
a comprehensive plan.
So I just want to put that out there. Because it's a pretty big concept for the Board to think about.
It's a fair amount of money, and in terms of as we talk about trade-offs, and especially if we want

to look at expanding coverages, particularly in lower density or less coverage areas, that's a
trade-off we could look at. It's one that comes to mind very easily to me.
It's been on my mind. Heather and others can attest that I keep asking about, how much is that?
And I've been poking around it for about a year.
But I think through these discussions, maybe there's opportunity to take a look at that. So I will
close there, and just say, thanks to the collective Board. And we'll continue to work on this, and
look forward to your continuing input.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And may I also express my thanks to the Board for really, a very
good conversation, and I think one that helps General Manager and the Senior Leadership Team
to complete what is a process. It's not over. It's not a product, it's a process. And we've certainly
begun that.
That concludes the discussion of the 2019 Tactical Plan at this point. Are there other matters to
come before the Board for this study session? Director-- OK. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I have another matter I'd like us to think about,
particularly while this whole group is here. In my day job, I traverse in a lot of transit areas. And
so there are all kinds of pilot programs going on in various and sundry ways.
I just sent General Manager Genova an email about a pilot program that Via Mobility is doing
with a company called Pantronics. And so I would like to see us have some little parking lot
where we could park all these ideas that I know are going on. I know we have great guys like
Paul DesRocher and Bill Sirois who are doing first-mile, last-mile pilots like the Felsburg Holt
Ullevig and HDR.
But we don't get to see those. And if we could just get more of a one liner. We got great exposure
to the Panasonic and Easy Mile. And we got plenty on that.
But there's stuff just going on like this. So I'm wondering if there's some way, if any of the other
Directors besides me are interested in knowing about that kind of stuff, if once a month we could
get a page of stuff like that that's going on? Question mark?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I think we could probably consolidate that. If the request is monthly,
maybe we do it in Operations Committee or something.
KATE WILLIAMS: And maybe if those of us who are here that are involved could bring that
back as well, not just have it going one way, then maybe we might actually, as part of T2 and
part of Mobility Choice and all that, be-- Because I'd really like to see us be the transportation
gurus, and not DRCOG, the Denver Regional Council of Governments who don't have
"transportation" in their name. Thank you very much.
[LAUGHTER]

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I just have a question about the Saturday schedule, that I had
it on my schedule as 10 to 6.
DAVE GENOVA: This Saturday?
NATALIE MENTEN: But there's only one station that's really going to be running 10 to 6,
station parties, and all the hoopla.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So yeah, the station parties are tended to pretty much across the board.
There was a change, one change, where one community changed to 11 o'clock. And I think that's
around the 41st and Fox.
So the parties are 10 to 2-ish. But of course, there's different celebrations with the art at each
station that falls within those windows. And then, of course, the free rides on the whole rail
system all day long.
NATALIE MENTEN: So like Wheat Ridge, that's 10 to 2.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Yeah, the station party's 10 to 2.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, that's all I needed to clarify. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I'm going to mention a few things about
this weekend, as well. So thank you for refreshing my recollection to do that. Madam Vice Chair,
you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I had the privilege, along with Director Broom, of
attending the transportation symposium that was held on Friday. And there were about 500 in
attendance, I'd say. And I've attended this every year on my own.
I just wanted to say that we were very well represented by RTD staff. And the presentations that
I attended, there were some first and last mile, TOD (transit oriented development), BRT. Yeah,
really, acronyms galore. I just want to compliment.
The presentations were excellent. The question and answer sessions were just great. Our staff
was so well-prepared.
And it just made me proud that they did such a good job, and there was plenty of discussion
about some of those items that Director Williams was saying. So just my compliments to all of
you to bring back to your respective staffs. Because it was just very, very transit-rich this year.
And I liked that.

But I also-- there's always opportunity to dialogue and engage and have conversations. And I had
a discussion with David Beckhouse from FTA. And we were brainstorming about some of these
types of possible grants and that type of thing.
So along Director Williams' comments, I would really like to understand those a little bit better
myself, and understand what it is that we feel that we have a chance to qualify for and to
compete for. Because I know you don't want to just go after everything, a blanket approach, but
just strategically what you all have in mind for applying for some of these types of creative
grants. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. General Manager, you may respond.
DAVE GENOVA: Just quickly to the grant thing. Bill, do you want to talk about the AV grant
we applied for?
[LAUGHTER]
WILLIAM VAN METER: I wish I could recall the details well enough to relate anything.
Maybe.
[SIDE DISCUSSION]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. We appreciate that.
BILL VAN METER: Brevity.
DAVE GENOVA: I think I owe Bill a beer or something. Sorry about that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Maybe it was somebody else that put that in. Normally, all the grants come
out of Bill's department. But we did apply for an autonomous vehicle grant, and we do think
we'll be competitive.
And that, what we applied for, was to do that on the DU (University of Denver) campus, and
then connect up with our light rail station at University. So that's one that we're hopeful about.
But that's just an example.
But we really do try to chase every grant we possibly can. So I think what we could do is do,
maybe, a better job of communicating when those grant notices come out to the Board, and let
you know which ones we're pursuing. So Bill, if you could take that on. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Make sure that Mr. Van Meter has
the information next time, so he can make up for that.

[LAUGHTER]
Madam Treasurer, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So Olde Town Arvada is 10 to 6, and they've added a
dance party the night before. And who knows. It's going to be really fun.
Along the lines of the planning for these activities, and all the communication, and everything
that you all have done, I mean, I'm just in awe, honestly. So I wanted to-- I know we'll have a
chance to say so afterwards, but I wanted to express just amazement and gratitude to you,
Pauletta, your group especially, and all that you all are doing to help this G Line thing come
together quickly and well. There's already a lot of buzz about things like the t-shirts.
I was hearing all about them today. Where can I get them? So I'm glad to have one. I can show it
off.
And I told the Chair and the General Manager this last night, but word of the two weeks-- just to
give you an idea of how that spread, Olde Town Arvada put a single post out to its group that
follows it on Facebook. And within some hours, there were 120 shares on that thing. And that
qualifies as viral in our area, and just really positive comments in almost every case. So thank
you very much, again, to the Board for endorsing that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Madam Second Vice Chair, you
are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just thought that I probably should let
everybody know here that last night, the City of Denver did adopt their Denveright Plan, which
is huge for the metro area in terms of developing strategies through 2040. But in addition to that,
tomorrow night there will be the first of many neighborhood plans that have been being worked
on for the last 18 months.
The Far Northeast neighborhood will be presenting their plan of action, and transit is a huge
component in that. The East plan is also working diligently in the communities. And transit
seems to be the number one issue in that community as well. So they're going to be doing these
plans for all the different neighborhoods in the City and County of Denver. And they're grouping
them, like in quadrants.
But just a heads up for us to kind of pay attention to what the community members are saying in
terms of what their needs and expectations are, and their wish list, as well. And I think that as
we're looking at our plan, we could look at them together, to see, making sure we're not
reinventing the wheel, and collaborating where we can, and participating, and helping each other
move this forward. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Director Folska, if you
are still on the line, please feel free at this point, if you'd like to share any further thoughts,
observations, or comments.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you, Director Tisdale. And I think I really appreciated hearing
everyone's feedback. And I thought it was really helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate them. Let me point out for the record,
you have these dates and information in your two-week calendar. But remember, Thursday at
noon, Get on Board at Skyline Park. Director Williams will be speaking there. I will be speaking
there.
And then remember that Thursday at 4:30 PM, you want to board the train at Denver Union
Station. You should have your VIP credentials. If you do not, please check with the Board Office
to follow up on that.
And recall that Friday morning, 7:00 AM, bright and early, we start serving breakfast. So the
train will leave at 7:40 AM, and begin an extended odyssey of ribbon cuttings. And Directors
Cook, Menten, and Rivera-Malpiede have been invited to make sure that any former Directors
for your district, and any former electeds for your cities should, of course, participate. Just please
make sure you get the information to the Board Office staff as to such people, so they are
identified. Are there any other matters to come before the Board at this time?
All right, looks like we're clear on that one. And so perhaps just in time for those of you who
want to race over to the Pepsi for the tip-off, I believe we have concluded. And so I will say that
as of 7:26 PM, this study session stands adjourned.
[GAVEL]

