Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on September 10, 2007
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 10, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held on
September 10, 2007 at 6:35 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Chair Ruchman, Directors Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Kemp, Kinton,
McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer, and Yamrick
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Dave Genova, Liz Rao, Susan Altes, Gideon Berger,
Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole, Cory Granrud, Susan Johnson, David
Krutsinger, Andy Mutz, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Dave Shelley,
Stan Szabelak, John Shonsey, Marcia Fraley, Rick Clarke, Bill Van
Meter, Liz Telford, Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Lieb
***
Chair Ruchman called the meeting to order at 6:35 P.M.

Call to Order:
I.

Recommended Actions
Agreement for Exclusive Negotiation-University Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement providing for the exclusive
negotiation between RTD and University Station Developers, LLC, a single purpose
limited liability company to be formed by Mile High Development to provide for
development at University Station for a period of time not to exceed twelve months.
Cal Marsella introduced this action. Susan Altes, Manager, Real Property gave the
background. The property has been rezoned and the City and County of Denver has
vacated the right of way. Mile High Development worked hard to get the property
rezoned and the ownership given to RTD. RTD will seek (with the Board’s approval)
a legislative change in the 2008 session amending RTD’s current enabling legislation
to allow for residential uses at RTD transit facilities. Currently, the legislation only
specifies that commercial uses can occur on RTD owned land at its transfer facilities.
Because of the time needed to move this legislation forward and its impact on the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on September 10, 2007
Page 2 of 4

development program, an exclusive period of a 1-year to negotiate terms of an
agreement is warranted.
Director Brohl asked for clarification on the one year timeline for negotiation. Is it
one year from the time the legislation is passed? Susan Altes responded that it is
one year begins when the Board passes the recommended action.
Director Ruchman expressed concern about giving exclusive negotiation rights as a
policy of the District. Director Brohl agreed with Director Ruchman and also
mentioned that the District can not allow someone to do all the work for a property
and then get nothing for it. Director Christopher stated that he believed the
circumstances were unique for this situation.
Motion: Director Kemp made a motion for
full approval before the Board at the
September 25, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Yamrick seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
RTD Boundary Certification and Director District Designation
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the Board
Secretary to certify the boundary map and the description.
It is further
recommended that lands newly annexed to RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS
32-9-106 be designated as part of Director Districts F, G, H, I and K as appropriate.
Cal Marsella said this is a routine exercise that the District goes through. Dave
Shelley, Manager, Corridor Planning, reviewed the major changes for each District.
Motion: Director Kemp made a motion for
full approval before the Board at the
September 25, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Proposed RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks I-225
Corridor Environmental Study and Preliminary Engineering Phase.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on September 10, 2007
Page 3 of 4

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute a proposed
RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks I-225 Corridor
Environmental Study and Preliminary Engineering phase. There is no financial impact
related to the approval of this IGA.
Cal Marsella introduced this item. An IGA is standard operating procedure when
the District is doing an EIS in a corridor where CDOT has right of way. Terms and
conditions of the IGA have been agreed on by CDOT and the District.
Motion: Director Yamrick made a motion for
full approval before the Board at the
September 25, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Lincoln Station Parking Garage License Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General
Manager execute a license agreement between RTD and the Lincoln Station
Metropolitan District that permits the use of 200 parking spaces at the Lincoln
Station Garage for a minimum of four years in exchange for compensation in the
amount of $40,000 per year.
Cal Marsella spoke to this item. A developer has requested to lease 200 spaces in
the Lincoln Station parking garage from the District for up to 5 years. The District
has a lot of capacity at this station. Cal Marsella said the upside is that this deal
promotes TOD and it is unlikely that RTD will need these spaces during this time.
Motion: Director Christopher made a motion
for full approval before the Board at
the September 25, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on September 10, 2007
Page 4 of 4

III. Other Matters –
 Table Mesa Park-n-Ride Pedestrian Bridge – Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager,
Planning and Development introduced this update. Stan Szabelak, Engineering
Project Manager, said that there are plans to design build a new pedestrian
bridge to connect one side of US 36 to the Table Mesa park-n-Ride. Currently,
the District is beginning the scoping work with the consultant. Staff estimates
that it will cost $7 million to construct the bridge, elevator, bus pull out lanes,
etc. Part of the money will come from Senate Bill 1 funds and the FasTracks
budget. Cal Marsella said that this construction will greatly help with bus
operations because buses will not have to exit the highway to drop and pick up
passengers. Staff estimates that construction will be complete in 2009 or 2010.



Park Meadows Pedestrian Bridge Update – Cal Marsella introduced this item.
The IGA with Park Meadows is in place. Park Meadows has requested that RTD
“harden” the station by restricting access to the platform. The concern from
Park Meadows is that patrons will use the parking lot at the mall for the light rail
station. RTD has developed an access control program for the station
consistent with the original agreement between the District and Park Meadows.
Andy Mutz, Senior Landscape Architect/Urban Designer, said that design should
be complete by the end of September. Staff is expecting a two month bidding
time frame. Construction would begin in December with completion in about
six months.
The access control system – light rail users that arrive at the station will receive
a ticket to exit the station and re-enter. Bus riders will receive tickets that are
tripped by the buses arrival. Customers that arrive via foot, bike, etc. will use a
call system that would go directly to Park Meadows Security and they will use a
card reader to let the riders in. RTD personnel will be able to use their employee
badges to access the station. The access control system will be bid separately
from the construction for the bridge.
Several Directors expressed concern about the access control system especially
the cost. Director McMullen expressed concern that constituents along the
Southeast line will want to see other stations hardened.
Many Directors are unhappy about the plan that Park Meadows is insisting on
and are reluctant to move forward with the access control system.

In the interest of time, the update on Sustainability: RTD and FasTracks was tabled
until the next meeting.

IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee
will be October 1, 2007 at 6:00 p.m.
V. Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the meeting
at 8:00 p.m.

