1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, March 4, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:56 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:57 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:56 PM
5:57 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Absent

5:56 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Committee Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:55 PM
5:57 PM
5:57 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Absent

5:55 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:56 PM

Directors Hoy, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede and Tobiassen were absent. Director Solano left
early.
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, John Elias, John Ewy, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Lindsay Smith, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn,
Libby Winter

Others Present:

Zane Deiter, Jane Donovan, Bert Melcher, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the West Colfax
Business Improvement District for the Transfer of RTD Shelters & RTD Site
Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA)
with West Colfax Business Improvement District (WC-BID) for the transfer of
ownership of 7 older model “Daytech” shelters & 2 trash receptacles, and to
reimburse WC-BID for the purchase and installation of 5 new trash
receptacles. The cost of the trash receptacles is included in the 2014
Adopted Budget for local government requests.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 25, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Cory Granrud, Park-n-Ride Design Manager, explained that the
West Colfax Business Improvement District (WC-BID)
approached RTD and requested that we transfer 7 of our older
steel “Daytech” shelters for the WC-BID to refurbish into an
artistic, one-of-a-kind functional shelter along West Colfax
between Irving St. and Sheridan Blvd. He stated that all of the
proposed shelter locations meet RTD’s typical criteria for
shelter installation and maintenance. He said that as part of
this agreement RTD would continue to provide routine,
custodial maintenance at the locations. Cory Granrud noted

that all glass and structural components will be reviewed by
RTD staff to ensure a safe environment for our patrons.
Director Anderson believes this is an excellent idea. She sees
business improvement districts (BIDs) as another partner for
RTD rather than a private corporation. She stated that BIDs
are working to improve their neighborhood and make the bus
stops a safer, nicer area for our passengers. Director
Anderson likes that RTD will continue custodial maintenance
because she thinks that is important for our reputation.
Committee Chair James asked if short term capital costs and
maintenance would be the same as in the past. Henry
Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, explained that
capital costs would not be the same as we will not have to
replace the shelters. He stated that WC-BID will refurbish,
maintain, and eventually replace the shelters; this means that
in the short and long term capital RTD will come out ahead.
Director Folska thinks this is a brilliant idea. She stated that
the snow removal at shelters is very important; the snow
plows just pile it onto the sidewalk from the street so it makes
it hard or any riders, especially those in wheelchairs, to get on
the bus. She said that she is glad RTD will still be responsible
for snow removal. Director Folska wonders if this model can
be replicated in other communities. Cory Granrud said that
staff is always welcome to working with our communities but
it is not something that RTD actively promotes. Director
Folska asked staff to consider promoting it sometime in the
future.
Committee Chair James shared that in reviewing this action,
he asked for further information about RTD’s policy in regards
to bus stops. He noted that RTD has a policy of installing and
replacing shelters at locations where ridership is high enough.
He said that staff will be giving the Board an overview of
those policies and highlighting possible partnership
opportunities at a future meeting.
Director Bagley encouraged the other Directors to vote in favor
of this recommendation. He pointed out that this action has
similarities to what was done in the Southeast corridor. He
said that RTD partnered with Denver South EDP, the
Transportation Management Associates, and cities along the
route in upgrading the stations.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Walker
ABSENT:
Hoy, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• TOD Update
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development (TOD), reviewed
a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the March 4,
2014 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Bagley said that as the Board may know, he and Director James
have been very interested in TOD since they were elected to the Board. He
stated that TOD has really come a long way. Director Bagley expressed his
excitement about the progress of the pilot programs. He believes that staff
has done exemplary work. Director Bagley noted that so much of TOD relies
on local governments because of zoning, permits, etc. He recognized all the
work that had been done with DRCOG and cities such as Denver, Lakewood
and Aurora for their stationary plans. Director Bagley noted that TOD takes
time and asked staff to keep up the good work.
Director Anderson echoed Director Bagley’s comments. She shared that in
the 30+ years she has been involved with the City of Arvada they have
tried to find a way to make the Arvada TOD area into a nice place. She
noted that it was a very ugly area in the past but through everyone’s
combined efforts this TOD project will enhance what Arvada had already
done with Olde Town.
Director Deadwyler asked for the RTD definition of TOD. She also asked for
examples and tours of successful TOD locations within the District. Bill
Sirois noted that TOD is not one size fits all; however, there are four
characteristics that are included in TODs: 1) Compact and Dense, 2)
Walkable, 3) Mix of Uses (i.e. commercial, residential, retail), and 4) Transit
as Central Focus. He said that there are several places within the District
that he would call Transit Adjacent Communities (TACs) where the
community is near transit but it is not the central focus. Bill Sirois stated
that right now a fully built TOD is still under construction. He shared that
development really happens over a long period of time.
Committee Chair James noted that the Washington, D.C. transit system is a
much more mature transit system that has had the opportunity for TODs.

He thinks the upcoming APTA Legislative trip will also be a good opportunity
for the Directors to see some successful TODs.
Director Daly asked why there was a project closing delay with the Alameda
Station Pilot. He also wondered if this would affect the construction
schedule. Bill Sirois explained that this was RTD’s first foray with the
developer securing financing. He stated that there are challenges when
working with lenders such as getting them to understand the project. Bill
Sirois said that it is taking longer than expected but the developer expects to
be ready for closing by the end of March. Kate Iverson, Manager of Transit
Oriented Development, stated that the construction schedule is about 18
months after closing.
Director Folska thanked staff for their presentation. She noted that it is not
unusual for developers to have financing and funding delays. She pointed
out that this happened with Denver Union Station as well. Director Folska
requested that staff re-send the TOD Design Criteria to the Board that was
sent several months before.
Chair Sisk asked who owned the property at 26th and Welton. Bill Sirois
stated that it is RTD owned property. It was purchased in 1994 when the
line was built. He said that the community wanted substitute parking for
street parking that was to be lost to the line; however, the lot has not been
used for its intended purpose so RTD entered into an 8 year option with a
developer who was looking to redevelop the Rossonian with the City of
Denver. He explained that this project has had some struggles over the
years but now Civil Technology Inc. and Palisade Partners LLC applied for a
Challenge Grant through the City and County of Denver. He said that RTD
chose to give them a small extension as they went through the Challenge
Grant process.
Chair Sisk wondered if RTD was generally selling our properties during the
TOD process and why. Chair Sisk would like to see other opportunities for
RTD to have a sustained financial plan outside of Sales and Use Tax and fare
revenue. He challenged staff to look at opportunities for RTD to retain the
property to lease to developers. Bill Sirois stated that is something staff
supports and did try to pursue as part of the pilot program; however, staff
saw a lot of pushback from the development community on that type of
model. Bill Sirois believes that there will be opportunities in the future and
noted that RTD executed a long term lease at Denver Union Station. He said
that this is the first option staff pursues but wants to be open to other
solutions if the Board decides to sell property to catalyze development.
Director Deadwyler noted that the citizens of Five Points have known about
the sale of the 26th and Welton parking lot for quite some time. She said
that is one of the reasons the community is also concerned about the closing

of the 29th Street Station which had additional parking across the street.
Director Deadwyler stated that the remaining parking available has fees and
in an area with many low income people the fees are too high. She asked
staff to keep this in mind as they decide what to do with the 29th Street
Station. Bill Sirois said at this time staff wants to hold on to the property at
the 29th Street Station to see how development germinates before taking
action.
Committee Chair James commented that this is a good example of RTD
being able to participate in stationary planning to benefit all parties as best
they can. He noted that last week the Central Corridor Extension Study was
just launched with a public meeting that was very well attended. He said
there is a lot of interest in that area.
Director Folska asked if that was the study about what kind of
transportation technology the community would like to see in their area. Bill
Sirois said the focus of the study is really about determining the operations
of the central corridor. He stated that while street cars have been raised as
an issue that is not really the focus of the study.
Director Folska wondered if providing an extension for the option to
purchase the lot at 26th and Welton required Board approval. Bill Sirois
explained that the extension was within the General Manager’s authority.
Committee Chair James agrees with Director Bagley that the TOD process is
a good one. He said that there is still a way to go before the Board will see
a really good TOD but the Alameda Station is a great example of the
progress of TOD; it could take decades but the step to build an apartment
building is really a move in the right direction.

 CAC Update
Committee Chair James indicated that due to the meeting change, Hugh
Wilson, FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-Chair, would
provide the Board with an update that was originally scheduled for the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting.
Hugh Wilson shared that at the February meeting RTD staff reviewed the
service changes that are associated with the Denver Union Station (DUS)
Bus Concourse opening. He said that Rob Rynerson, Senior Service Planner,
taught them that it was much more complex than just moving buses from
Market Street Station to DUS. Hugh Wilson stated that the CAC also
received a Northwest Area Mobility Study Update as well as a presentation
from Kevin Flynn, Eagle Project Manager.

Hugh Wilson extended an invitation to the Board to attend the CAC
Quarterly Meeting that will be in Arvada on March 19th. He said the agenda
will have an update from RTD staff on the Gold Line Construction as well as
a presentation from Trammell Crow about the Olde Town Arvada TOD
project.
Director Folska informed the Board that there is a wonderful program about
what RTD is doing in Arvada on Channel 8; however, she noted that the
Mayor keeps calling the Gold Line a light rail line. She thinks it is very
important for everyone to remind our communities of the difference between
light and commuter rail.
Chair Sisk thanked Hugh Wilson and the other CAC members for the time
and effort they put forward. He shared that he had his two-on-one several
week ago. He thinks it is wonderful to see the energy and dedication that
the members have. Hugh Wilson stated that those meetings have been
exceedingly helpful in establishing communication between the CAC and
Directors.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley reminded the Board that General Manager Washington would be
testifying to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Public-Private
Partnership tomorrow, March 5, 2014. He encouraged the other Directors to read
the testimony General Manager Washington sent if they had not yet had a chance
to do so. Director Bagley stated that it provides a lot of in-depth information which
is very valuable.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 1, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:49 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

