Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, November 24,
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 24, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday November 24
2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez; Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Busck, Cohen (arrived late), Daly, James, McMullen, Pulliam,
and Tobiassen.
Directors Chacon, Christopher, O’Boyle, Tayer

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Tim Aguilar, Jeff
Becker, Bill Bell, Shirley Bennett, Joe Berdaus, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, John Davis, Bob Downes, Phil Eberl, , Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Armand Hainsworth, Mike
Haley, Martha Hecox, David Hollis, Bill Holmes, Cheryl
Holmes, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Marla Lien, Caitlin
Magee, Ben Martinez, Tony McCaulay, Bob Medina, Paula
Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee,
Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague, ,
Errol Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, , John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington,
Greg Yates

Others Present:

Adrian Romero (Spectrum A/V), Michael Swan (Spectrum
A/V), R. Himmel. Ed Bush (CRMCA), Jeff Lieb

***
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

I. State of the District Presentation
Interim General Manager Phil Washington described this presentation as a list
of the top three 2009 accomplishments, the 2010 goals and the 2010
Challenges as represented by the various departments. He presented the
Senior Leadership Team as: Marla Lien, Legal, Mike Gil, Acting Bus
Operations Assistant General Manager, Dave Genova, Assistant General
Manager, Facilities, Safety & Security, Bruce Abel, Assistant General

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, November 24,
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
Manager, Contracted Services, Operations & Marketing, Scott Reed, Assistant
General Manager , Public Affairs and Customer Service (TIC), Terry Howerter,
CFO and Acting Assistant General Manager, Administration , Cal Shankster,
Acting Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations, Rick Clarke, Acting
Assistant General Manager-FasTracks Planning, and Bill Van Meter, Acting
Assistant General Manager, FasTracks.
A copy of the presentation is included with these minutes in the Board office
minute notebook.
Phil Washington also talked the steps they are talking in going from “good to
great” and had Tony McCaulay, Marketing , to present new ads that will soon
be released promoting the leadership, human resources (getting the right
people on the bus), focus on core mission and a focus on the RTD mission
statement. Collectively these marketing ads will show the commitment, the
pride, and the teamwork that will take RTD from good to great.
Interim General Manager Phil Washington summarized by stating RTD is Sound
with Challenges.
Q&A:
Director Brohl asked for clarity on the recent arbitration ruling for light rail
employee separate seniority. She needed to better understand how the
bidding for shifts occurs and if employees took a pay cut when they go from
bus to light rail. Cal Shankster provided an explanation and will do further
follow-up on this question.
Director McMullen commented that he was impressed with the presentation
and challenged the AGM’s to continue to engage labor and management to
solve problems without arbitration.
Director Bagley indicated he was impressed with the presentation and thanked
Phil Washington for being succinct, and having the leadership at the table. He
requested RTD communicate with the government entities such as Littleton,
Englewood and Arapahoe County what we are doing on the SW corridor
safety improvement
Director Tobiassen thanked the staff for their professionalism and
commitment. Some of his comments focused on expanding the smart cards,
implementing credit cards into the system, parking management and relief of
parking concerns especially at Nine Mile, implementing technology such as
texting to 29ll and continued struggle with public perception. He stated the
stimulus focus must be on JOBS,JOBS,JOBS.
Director Daly asked about who did they use for refurbishing of the MCI buses
and was this work done internally or externally. he also spoke about the large
number of SBE/DBE turnout at the Eagle P3 event.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, November 24,
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
Director Martinez thanked the senior leadership team for their dedication to
the agency and in spite of the changes, we are still producing a good product.
We have a high caliber of workers who are committed in spite of serving in
acting roles or interim positions. The loved the 2010 challenges as it lets the
Board keep this on their radar. His challenges continue to be in the area of
public information and getting the word out on the monies already spent in
each corridor. He also suggested we look for ways to branch out to the
neighborhood grassroots organization including neighborhood newsletters to
reach the masses. He also expressed the importance of the DBE/SBE and
what we are doing to employ locally. We need to show the community more
how we are being a partner in growing our community.
Director Busck applauded Interim General Manager in taking the lead to
establish goals, a task that he felt the Board needs to be more proactively. He
talked about the importance of smart cards and encouraged RTD to
investigate the use of incorporating more technologies that take advantage of
sustainability as we rollout FasTracks such as in stations (i.e. FasTracks,
operations and facilities). His biggest concern was in security and he wants
to hear a presentation on what we are doing in security to make our riders feel
safe and encourage them to ride our buses and light rail.
Director James expressed they did a good job in this presentation and thought
it was a good idea to pull all the senior leadership team and their staff
together to partner in these challenges and opportunities.
Director Pulliam wanted staff to look for IT technologies that can be
expanded.
Director Cohen asked what does the Interim General Manager think is the
most important thing we can address before the end of the year. Interim
General Manager responded the APE.
Director Cohen also requested the Interim General Manager to share the
DBE/SBE slide that was presented at the Eagle P3 event showing the
community opportunities and the ripple effect. Phil Washington indicated he
would present at the next DBE/SBE committee.
Chair Kemp spoke on behalf of the absent John Tayer and stated it was an
excellent presentation. He provided a recap of what had been expressed by
the Board and commented on the dedication of the staff to the RTD
organization and this shows why we are a first class transit property. Our
people are real assets and there are no transit properties out there that
compares to RTD. He is proud to be here and put in the extra time. We are
number 1. We are creating job opportunities, We are helping to stimulate this
economy and We are the best. Thanks to Phil Washington and the staff for a
job well done.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, November 24,
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4
Phil Washington indicated this presentation would be put on the intranet and
copies given to the Board members.

III.

Other Matters
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck indicated they would be cancelling the
Executive Session for tonight and the GM Executive Search Committee will
come to the full Board next week with recommended parameters for the GM
compensation package.

V.Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

