2025-02-25
Board Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: I will now call the Tuesday, February 25 RTD Board meeting to order. We are
convened as of 5:30 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our
monthly gatherings, please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held
remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit
RTD-denver.com. And a livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD'S YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com. And a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish.
Director Benker, could you please lead us in the pledge of allegiance?
KAREN BENKER AND BOARD: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation under god, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek, would you please read out the land acknowledgment?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which
our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity
of the Native and all historically-oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions
in the District as we move forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. I will now call the roll. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larson.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha. No Director Ruscha. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I am present, as well. That's 14 present, one absent. We do have a quorum.
There are no retirees for this evening. First quarter retiree awards will be announced at the March 25
Board of Directors meeting. Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board. As we both have in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go
first, followed by those who are participating remotely.
For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you're not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so,
please raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to
speak. If you're dialed in, press star-6 to toggle your mute settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. During this time, the Board will
not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your
public comment, please email the RTD Board office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have up to three minutes to provide
their comments. I want to acknowledge the large number of people who have taken the time to join us this
evening for public comment. Everyone who signs up to speak will have an opportunity to be heard. To
ensure that we're able to hear from everyone in a timely manner, I encourage those who speak to be
concise, and to focus on sharing your unique perspectives, specific examples, or new information.
So we will, as addressed, will be going with the folks who signed up. And our first speaker for tonight is
going to be Frank Acosta. If you'd please come up to the podium, state your name, you may proceed.
FRANK ACOSTA: Good evening, everybody. My name is Frank Acosta. I am an operator, bus operator,
working out of the Boulder division. I am here to introduce myself to all of you so you know what you're
getting out of this package, since I've been here. I've worked for six years.
The skill sets that I bring to this company, a lot of them were learned as I was growing up and getting
older. I served my military, served in the military in the United States Marine Corps as a combat veteran. I
learned loyalty. I learned how to work together with people. I have this protective nature, which I definitely
need on the bus. I have been a victim of attempted assault, I would put it that way. So I'm able to defend
myself. I'm able to protect my passengers. I'm able to move them and make them feel safe on the bus,
rather than feel claustrophobic or worried about the things they hear on the news and radio.
I'm concerned-[CLEARS THROAT]
I am concerned right now about some of the things I'm hearing during our contract negotiations. And I just
wanted to ask, or make a statement, that what I heard was-- RTD's afraid of insulting or hurting the
feelings of the salaried employees versus what we're asking for in our raises. I want to say, I'm a different
animal, as opposed to people that are on the boards, working in offices, creating policy. I believe I am the
front line. I am your buffer to the public out there. And I will make you proud. But I want to be appreciated
for what I do. And I don't see that in what I'm hearing about the negotiations.
So that's the most important thing about me. I'm a proud member of Local 1001. I've always been a Union
member, all my life. I've stood on picket lines, where people have crossed and didn't pay any attention.
So I am loyal to my Union. I am loyal to my colleagues. And I will be loyal to RTD as long as we get the
job done.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Acosta, for your service. And-FRANK ACOSTA: I'm sorry I kind of choked here. I had a whole lot of just-- a whole lot to say, but you
can't get it done in three minutes. So I'm trying to pick out the best stuff for you guys to hear. All right?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Acosta.

[APPLAUSE]

Next up, we have Pat Rannigan. And apologies for any mispronunciations.
PAT RANNIGAN: Good evening, everybody. My name is Patrick Rannigan. I came to this company on
October 13 of 2023. I had struggles over the years, working for different companies. I felt like I never
really fit in. I just felt like an outsider. But ever since I came to this company, that all changed when the
instructors who trained me on the operations of the bus and everything else helped me work through my
hard times of learning because I was always a slow learner in school. And I struggle to learn new things.
They helped me to understand the train cards, which helped me work efficiently.
The thing that-- it's always in the back of my mind is struggling to make ends meet. A better competitive
pay would probably help a lot of people out, and also, better security for all the drivers out there and
better way of life for everybody that works for this company. This company has been remarkable in
working with me on a lot of things. And I just feel like this company is a big part of my life. And I feel like
this company is part of my family. And this job is important to me. And I take the operation of that bus very
seriously. And I take keeping everybody safe on that bus very seriously.
Anything that affects the operation of that bus becomes my business. And if I feel the need to do so, I will
request assistance or shut the bus down for whatever reason that may affect the operation of that bus. It's
a huge responsibility to take on. And I just want to let the Board know that to make a really good choice
on the wages for the operators and the mechanics that keep the buses running and keep this company
going.
And also, I'd like to give my personal thanks to everybody that's helped me through hard times and
through difficult times of the training part. And I just can't express my gratitude enough to show my true
appreciation for what everybody has gone through to get me this far. I just want to also let everybody
know that I appreciate all their hard work that they do, including the Board members here today. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Pat. And thank you for your service.
[APPLAUSE]

Next on our list we have Bill Pellouchoud.
WILLIAM PELLOUCHOUD: Good day. Good evening. Thank you for permitting me to participate in this
dialogue. My name is William Pellouchoud. Mostly, my friends call me Bill. Some call me Wild Bill. I've
been driving RTD buses since 2012, now almost 15 years. I love my job. It has its challenges, one of
which is my alarm clock every morning at 1:30.
[LAUGHTER]
That's a challenge. I get up every morning. Offsetting any challenges, my job also has rewards, one of
which is a smile and a thank you from my passengers when they disembark from my bus, little challenges
and rewards that stretch together and make a life a good one.

I'd like to speak with you today about a living wage. What is a living wage? A living wage is a calculation
of the funds that are necessary for a single working adult to live comfortably in a certain area of the
country. To live comfortably means to be able to afford life's basic necessities like food, housing, and
health care, maybe to have a small allowance budgeted for relaxation and recovery, maybe to have a
small allowance for savings. To live comfortably in Colorado in 2024, this living wage has been calculated
to be $49.60 per hour. That's what it takes to live comfortably. That's a number from the Denver Gazette,
their issue on April 17, 2024.
This living wage is more than my wage at RTD. Establishments that pay a living wage see reduced
turnover, a drop in absenteeism, reduced overtime hours, and reduced job training, among other benefits
like happier and healthier employees with reduced stress in their lives. I am but one member of RTD's
highly skilled and dedicated workforce. We are a team.
And I thank you, members of the Board, members of the RTD Leadership Team, and members of ATU,
for your confidence in me to work every day, to do my best and do my part to further RTD's mission of
safe and efficient public transportation. I trust my Union negotiating team to do its best to make my life in
Colorado low stress and affordable. My desire is to stay in this job, to excel in this job, and to feel that I
am valued by RTD.
My Union is now asking for a wage increase that's less than a living wage. So budgeting and compromise
and some financial discomfort will continue to be a part of my life, even after we reach agreement for a
new working contract. Please, let's move in the direction to take good care of all of our team members
during these dynamic times in Colorado. Let's do our best to minimize any work-related stress that's
within our power, and to take good care of each other.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Bill. And thank you for your comments. And thank you for your service.
Our next speaker is Christina Molina.
AUDIENCE: All right, Christina. Whoo!
CHRISTINA MOLINA: Hello, I'm Christina Molina. I'm a bus operator in Boulder. Good evening, RTD
Board of Directors. My employee number is 22806. I have been a proud operator at RTD for 6 and 1/2
years. I have overcome many challenges at this job through some of the most trying times.
I worked through the COVID pandemic, continuing to serve the community through my entire pregnancy,
right up to the day I gave birth to my pandemic baby. During this time, RTD laid off about 250 Union
brothers and sisters due to hardships of COVID. Meanwhile, I got to keep my job through the
snowpocalypse in 2021 that snowed everyone in, yet we were still out there, navigated the heartache of
the Boulder King Soopers mass shooting while working the skip route that passes right by there.
Don't get me wrong, I am not complaining. I value my job and take immense pride in what I do on a daily
basis. Regardless of how much I enjoy the role I play in helping our community, it comes with challenges,
ones that only those of us on the front truly understand. No amount of training can prepare you or teach
you to handle these types of situations. They're learned and endured through experience.
Over my entire career at RTD, I've witnessed things I could never have imagined. Front line workers like
me deal with assaults, exposures to drugs, overdoses, indecent exposures, sexual harassment, verbal
abuse, death threats, biohazards like urine, feces, repulsive odors, blood, and other bodily fluids. When

these situations arise, there is no guarantee of immediate help. Response times vary. And at times, we're
left to fend for ourselves, which can lead to unemployment from RTD.
Apart from the workplace environment, outside of work, I'm a single mother striving to build a better future
for my child. Yet with the current economy and the rising cost of living in Colorado, RTD's contract offer to
increase wages will not be enough to keep pace with inflation over the next three years. It's disheartening.
I often ask myself, does RTD value me and the other front line workers who show up every day, ensuring
our passengers reach their destinations safely and in a timely manner? The low wage increase suggests
otherwise. It's hard not to question if this job is worth enduring the daily struggles we face. Without us,
there is no RTD.
With that said, there's a saying, if you take care of your own, they will take care of you. Sadly, that is not
the case today. Today I am just a number in RTD eyes, employee number 22806. My name is Christina
Molina. It is nice to meet you. Thank you for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Christina. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Our
next speaker for tonight is Sam Maertins.
SAM MAERTINS: Good evening. And my name is Sam Maertins.
[LAUGHS]
Weird spelling. I'm here because I want you guys to understand that I'm someone who has been with
RTD for almost 10 years. I work in the training department. I help train the new RTD employees coming
in, the new people driving the buses. I can't tell them what every day, we go through. I know what I went
through for the first five years. I worked 6 days a week, 365 days a year. I missed time with my child, my
family. I worked 10, almost 12 hours, got home, had to turn around and do it all again. There wasn't
considered a day off. The one day I got, I had to go grocery shopping, had to make sure all the bills were
paid, do the laundry, be prepared for my next day of work.
Now, we have got some. We get those two days off, but even with our pay, it's not enough. I have to
determine whether I'm going to make sure we have groceries in the house or the rent's going to be paid. I
should not have to be that with RTD. It's a wonderful job. I love what I do. And I don't want to lose it.
I probably speak for a few people who are here. We all would like to see a good increase if it's not
complete with a cost of living, something that will make life a little bit more manageable. That's all I have
to say. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Sam. And thank you for your service. Our next speaker for this evening
is John Prather. John Prather.
JOHN PRATHER: Hello, I'm John Prather. I'm a Facilities Maintenance Mechanic Electrician working at
the Platt Division. I am a highly-skilled worker. I have been in the electrical trades for 39 years, 20 of
those here at RTD. I've seen, over the years, that we have struggled to fill the positions within our group
with qualified and skilled workers.
I think if you asked management right now, they would tell you, well, the group that I'm in, they would say
that, well, we're close to fully staffed. So what do you mean? I would say that some of those workers that
are qualified probably will not stay for a long time. They will find employment elsewhere. I found a home
here. I'm not going anywhere. I'm going to stay.

Another thing that management won't tell you, if they tell you that the our group is fully staffed, is that I
know that recently the entrance exams, or the tests to see if somebody is qualified for this position,
they've lowered the standards for that. So now we have fully staffed in our department, perhaps, but we're
not attracting the quality people that we used to. So I'm just here to ask for good living wages.
And if you want to attract and keep qualified mechanics and operators, you need to pay a better wage.
And this is the direction-- the last contract that we had went a long ways towards that. We had a good
contract. I think most of us were happy with it. I brought up the retirement from some of our members that
weren't up to full retirement. That went a long ways towards maintaining a quality workforce. But we need
to keep that going.
And we are. We're highly skilled. We're the people that make sure the lights are on in this building and
that it's heated and it's cooled. The people in my group are the ones that maintain the hoists that hold up
a 40-thousand pounds bus that a mechanic has to stand underneath. So we're just-- yeah, we just want
you to know who we are and what we do. And thank you for your time.
[APPLAUSE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, John.
Our next speaker is MA Baldween, is it? My apologies.
MICHAEL ANTHONY BALDINI: Hello, everybody. My name is Michael Anthony Baldini. I'll be working
about 10 years now, and I just want to let everybody know-- first of all, I want to give credit to all my ATU
1001 brothers for showing up today. You are the guys that make RTD work. Without us, we don't roll. So
anyway, I just want to-- I'll be real quick. Just give us a fair, living wage. Me, I'm easy seven, seven, and
seven. Triple sevens, that's all we want. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Mike, Thank you for your service. Our next speaker for tonight
is Jason Livingston.
JASON LIVINGSTONE: Good evening, I'm Jason Livingston. I don't know what I can say compared to
everybody else's words, but my personal experience is that due to financial hardships during COVID,
compounded by the skyrocketing cost of living, I've had to work seven days a week for several months
straight just to make ends meet. And sometimes it seems like if I can't get any extra work, that I fall
behind, I'm constantly playing catch up on bills and things of that nature.
But my daughters expect me home every day. They get excited when I come home. And sometimes I feel
like all I do is drive for RTD. I mean, that's great. I love my job, but I feel like I'm giving up quality time with
my family because I simply can't afford the cost of living these days. So I don't know what else I can add
to what everybody else has said, because I'm moved to tears by just their dedication and devotion to this
company. And I'm with them 100%. I'll be here until I retire because it's probably the easiest job and best
paying job I've ever had. But currently it seems like it's not.
So like I said, I don't know what else I can say to add to everybody else's statements, but thank you for
hearing me out. And I hope you have a wonderful evening.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jason. Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your service. Our
next speaker for tonight is Max Taylor.
MAX TAYLOR: Hey, I'm Max Taylor, 25155. Yeah, just like Jason, a lot of people have already said all
the things that need to be said. But I'm a millennial. I'm no stranger to gatekeeping and this society that
isn't quite made for us. But we want a living wage, to echo Bill. A living wage is not what it used to be. I'm
trying to qualify for a mortgage right now and it's not looking awesome. I may have to live 50 miles away
from where I work. And I think RTD can do better than that. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Max. Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your service. Our
next speaker is Don McKenzie.
DON MCKENZIE: Hi, I'm Don McKenzie. I work at District Shops, Body Shop. I've got a few things I'd like
to say. I'll keep it short and concise. I would like to speak on behalf of the body shop technicians. We'd
like to raise awareness of what our technicians do. We'd like the company to recognize the extensive
information we're required to know, the countless tasks were required to perform proficiently, and the
many tools we must purchase with our own money to make the necessary repairs possible. In addition to
this, we must take classes for which we are tested on, both writtens and hands on, and must pass both to
obtain graduating pay increases from starting pay.
As skilled labor, body technician tradesmen with their extensive knowledge and skill set, hold a value that
must be compensated. RTD is one of the few transit agencies that possesses an in-house body repair
facility. Within The Body Shop facility. We have a Fabrication Department where things are made not only
for body repairs, but several other departments within RTD, as well. We also have a Glass Department
and a Upholstery Department, working on both bus and light rail projects, and Special Projects
Department, all within the body shop. There's quite a lot of technical work happening at district body
shops. Let's be proud of it and the techs that work in it, and compensate them for what they do.
I cordially invite all of you to discover all that is District Body Shop. On another note, I'd like to bring
attention to inflation and the cost of living in Denver, Colorado. As you many of us know, many of us
struggle with rising costs. Inflation has an effect on most things, and housing is no exception. As most
people's main expense, housing costs have become cumbersome, to say the least. And a substantial
income is needed for a sustained living. I personally experienced a $467 per month rent increase in the
last lease contract. As costs continue to rise, we have no choice but to earn more. To keep up. We ask
that you consider these things during negotiations at the next bargaining agreement. We thank you for
your consideration, District Body Shop.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Don, Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Our next
speaker is [? Luis ?] [? Escado? ?]
AUDIENCE: What did you say?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Luis?
AUDIENCE: Oh. Oh, I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Luis? Louis? Anyone? OK.
JACK KROLL: Why don't you go to the next one?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Go on one? Sounds good. Thank you. Next speakle-- speaker, pardon me-- is
Reinaldo Mercado. Welcome back.
REINALDO MERCADO: Hello, my name is Reinaldo Mercado. I work at Platt Division as an FM
Custodian. And I've been working there for almost two years. What I like about RTD is that you get great
benefits, you can move to different positions, and also, you get to meet different people, too. But that's
what I wanted to say. Again, my name is Reinaldo Mercado. And you have a great day.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you so much, Reinaldo. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your
comments. Our next speaker is Cameron Richardson.
CAMERON RICHARDSON: Hi, I'm Cameron. I've been a RTD bus driver for about 11 years. I joined RTD
not right out of the military. I had about three years in between. They call that transitioning in the military,
when you come back from combat Operations to regular civilian life. One of the things I always
appreciated about RTD and why I think I gravitated toward this institution, you guys seemed in a unique
position to focus on long-term strategy instead of just short-term gains. I would hate to see that be thrown
away. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Cameron. Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your service.
Our next speaker is Dan Ward, Dan Ward.
DAN WARD: Good evening. My name is Dan Ward. We, my brothers and sisters in the Union, love our
passengers. We love our jobs. We're just not crazy about what you think of as being an honest wage
increase to keep up with the cost of living. Recently, you've acquired a new CEO, Angel Pena, to boost
efforts to improve reliability. Part of reliability is no dropped runs. Well, when you're short on drivers,
you're going to have dropped runs.
Just a couple of examples, in January 2024, we were short by 14.59% of your budgeted staff for driving
buses. In February 2023, we were short 19.01% of your budgeted staff for driving buses. If our wages do
not keep pace with cost of living, then we will be forced, financially to find those wages somewhere else.
Just a couple of examples. Groome out of Fort Collins to DIA pays their drivers $25.40 up to $39.90.
Bustang to Glenwood Springs and Grand Junction pays their drivers $30 to $38.
We're not asking for the moon, just seven, seven, seven. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Dan. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Our next
speaker for tonight will be Rick Stumblefield.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

RICK STUBBLEFIELD: I'll give you a pass because you said you might mess it up. It's Stubblefield.
JULIEN BOUQUET: My apologies.
RICK STUBBLEFIELD: Thank you, Rick. I'm an 18-year veteran of RTD. I drive out of Platt. I can't say no
more than what everybody else has already said, but we are going backwards. Cost of living is going up.

And I think you guys lost focus on that. And I hope that all of us here today, me and my Union brothers
and sisters, can get you guys focused again, to understand that we want to be here, we like it here, but
you guys are making it difficult for us to be here. So please help us and understand that and do the right
thing and put us in the right direction. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Rick. Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your service. Our
next speaker tonight is Steve Krat.
STEVE KRAT: I'm Steve Krat. I've been here for 17 years. I wrote this down. I consider myself to be the
Positive Morale Officer of Boulder. I just want you to know that if you've been on the AB and you've gone
to the airport, you have gotten a great ride from me. I would challenge anyone to say any different. The
point is, is that we love working here. We're just stuck on a problem. I'd like us to get through-- I want you
to hear what I wrote down because I'm just going to just keep talking, otherwise.
OK, we're asking you to please do the right thing regarding our contract. The offers we have seen, they're
causing major morale issues. People are just angry. When I come to work, my job as Morale Officer is
harder because people are upset. They're thinking they're not going to have a good raise. And that
bothers them because money matters.
AUDIENCE: Yeah, hello!
AUDIENCE: Here, here.
RICK STUBBLEFIELD: OK? Colorado's become difficult to live in. It's hard for me to understand how
someone can not understand this. It feels apathetic to me. Look, we want to get-- we don't want it to be us
and you, OK? It's not how it's supposed to be.
When true problems arise, we're going to be there. And we're going to solve these problems. But we want
our leaders there, too. We hear about working from home leadership these days, and that's BS. Leaders
show up to work. We show up to work and we do a great job. Just asking you to do the right thing, and
just give us a good raise. Thank you kindly.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Steve. Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your service. The
next speaker for tonight is Joe Johnson.
JOE JOHNSON: Hello, my name is Joe Johnson. I've been at RTD for 10 years. But I'm a native of
Denver. So I've seen it come and go. I've seen all the miraculous changes. Yeah, we all love to work for
RTD, but we don't love what's happening to us. We need to be compensated. What you're bring to the
table is like a slap in the face. You don't want nobody to slap you your face about your wages? Please
don't slap us, please. Look into your own self and look into your own families and take care of us like we
need to be taken care of. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Joe, Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Our next
speaker tonight will be Dennis Hawkins.
DENNIS HAWKINS: Thank you, RTD. I'm not going to talk about myself because I'm not important. What
I'm going to talk about is all the operators, mechanics, and workers that make RTD work. I'm going to tell
you right now, all these people here want to see RTD be successful because when RTD is successful, we
have a job. So we're human beings. We need to eat. We need to be able to buy homes that we can live
in. We need to be able to buy refreshments, et cetera.

We are your workers. During the pandemic, when everybody else was home, you saw buses running, you
saw trains running. That's because of us. They did not run by themselves. We are essential workers. We
work on our anniversaries. We work on holidays. We miss children's graduations. We sometimes work
sick. But we come and do it every day. We get spit on, we get cursed at, sometimes we get physically
assaulted day in and day out.
But you know what? Each day, we get up and come to work and make RTD work. 2:30 in the morning
sometimes, we have to be at work. And we work, sometimes till 1:00 at night. We do not have regular
hours. We can't make games after high school for our kids, sometimes. We miss those things. But we
give RTD our best. And what we're asking for, for everything we go through, for everything that we put up
with, we're asking simply, for a living wage. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Dennis. Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Our
next speaker for tonight is Clint Kutzler, Clint Kutzler.
CLINT KUTZLER: Good evening. My name is Clint Kutzler. I'm a Light Rail Operator for RTD. I've been a
Light Rail Operator for about 5 and 1/2 years. During that 5 and 1/2 years, I've been a Light Rail Training
Revenue Instructor for the last 3 years. I'm the one who trains these highly-skilled operatives. I know the
time and the effort that goes into training these operators to be what they are.
We're not asking for the highest wage. We're just asking for a competitive, living wage. Just talking to
some of the training instructors this morning, we do not have enough revenue instructors. The revenue
instructors are saying that the risk is not worth the reward, which is a conversation we won't go into right
now. But yeah, they're saying the money is not worth some of the risks that are taking, of being involved
as the revenue instructor.
So you know, so that's pretty much all I want to say is, yes, we are-- I know what goes into training these
people. I know what goes into-- and it was kind of disheartening when I heard the numbers today about
the number of people that went through training, and how many are still here because-- and that a lot of
that could be because they found a higher paying job. So yeah, we just want a competitive, living wage.
And that's all we're asking for. Thank you.
Thank you, Clint. Thank you for your comments and thank you for your service. Our next speaker tonight
will be Liz Young.
LIZ YOUNG: Good evening, Directors. Thank you for your attention. My name is [? Bende ?] Elizabeth
Young, and I go by Liz. Many of you met me last year when I was volunteering my time at the Capitol. I
joined RTD about three years ago as a Servicing Cleaner. I then transferred to Rio as a Rail Laborer, and
then I became a Signal Traction Power Maintainer. Every one of those jobs has been the best job I've
ever had.
When I moved to Denver 12 years ago, I taught math to ninth graders in Montbello. When I worked as an
educator, I was attacked with a knife. I was present during lockdowns with unauthorized firearms multiple
times. And in the course of my work at RTD, I have been spat on, threatened, attacked, and that's just in
the last year. I know, probably everyone here has been through more than that. And I know you have,
too. I know it's not easy wearing these letters on your uniform, or-- it's challenging to be out there.
And you all know very well, the cost of living is going up. Many of what it's like to live check to check.
Maybe you're not there now, but you've been there before. Many of us are there now. Before I worked

here, I was an Actuarial Analyst for five years. I was published in Loss Reserving regarding property
casualty insurance. I can tell you, RTD's workforce is your most valuable asset, by far. And if you take a
short-term view on it, you're going to have poor payoff in the long run, whether or not you agree. Take the
right choice, please. Your workers are your best asset.
And many of them are struggling. We're showing up. We're subject to all sorts of violence, attacks,
threats, and we're out there, we're happy, we're doing the work that you need to move this city and this
area. To play with it for something on a resume or some future job is not right. We're just asking you to
treat us right, help us have a stable life. And with that, your city, your people, will be happier. Thank you
for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Liz. Thank you for your comments and thank you for your service. Our
next speaker will be B Padillo.
B PADILLA: Hi, my name is B Padilla. I work out of MOW Rio. I'm a Signal and Power Traction Maintainer
like Liz. And I work third, so this is still pretty early in the morning for me, so please bear with me. So
yeah, I've been in this position for about 10 months now. I'm coming up on my 1 year in May. And I had
wanted to raise one particular safety concern that I've seen that's more glaring than some of the others,
and also probably the most preventable. Part of our job as Signal and Power, we work out in the field.
And we work on the overhead catenary system. I'm sure you've seen it. It's those wires that the light rail
run along. You can see them on the side of the highway. You can see them out on 16th Street.
And part of our job is to inspect, maintain, and repair that equipment. It's also probably one of the most
dangerous parts of our job as SMPs. The OCS is over 2 stories up in the air. It carries 800-plus volts of
DC power. It's under approximately 4,000 pounds of tension. And they can be up to a mile long. Due to
our limited windows to put equipment on the track and some of the reactive maintenance approaches
needed, the need for repair is more pressing than ever for the overhead catenary. Without these wires,
the light rail vehicles do not run. And if something fails, it fails catastrophically.
Aside from the problem of equipment, our bucket trucks are constantly breaking down. We don't have
enough to perform some of the work that we need to. We also don't have the training. I have heard about
and witnessed multiple accidents, close calls, and injuries due to working on the OCS, more so than
anything else. And I went to one of our trainers to simply ask, hey, do we have resources or training
materials on how to properly rig this equipment? This immensely heavy and dangerous lengths of just
wire? And he was embarrassed to tell me that they do not.
And I could tell that there was so much remorse because it is such a dangerous and essential part of our
job, that he has made efforts to push for contractors, people who do this across the USA-- it is not
something special to RTD. This is something that's done standard in the industry-- to get more training for
us. And I just wanted to be a squeaky wheel on his behalf, on the behalf of my coworkers, on the behalf
of our alignment, our light rail system, and for myself. I want to be able to get home in the morning and tell
my mother what I did without worrying she's going to lose sleep while I'm out there. Thank you for your
time.
Thank you, B. Thank you for your comments and thank you for your service. Our next speaker is David
Hoage. Again, apologies for mispronunciation.

DAVID HOAGE: The E is silent. I'm here as a guest, a member of Transdev Denver, and of our ATU
1001. I just say, please don't forget us. Living in Denver and working in Denver is great, but the cost is
expensive. That's about it. Thank you.
Thank you, David, Thank you for your service. Thank you for your comments. Bret Boyer is our next
speaker-- Bret Boyer.
AUDIENCE: Hi.
AUDIENCE: Woo!
BRET BOYER: Good evening. I just wanted to speak on the behalf of Access on Demand. We've heard
several different things about budgets being cut. And I understand that there's a lot of things that need to
be straightened out, but I'm here to just remind you that this program that's Access on Demand isn't just a
premium service. This isn't just a nice thing to give to disabled people. We have real, working, disabled
folks who are raising families and being a part of this community. The Access on Demand has done
incredible things for us as a community. It's not just a free handout for people who don't want to work and
don't want to be a part of this community. We want to come to the table.
We want to talk to you about these things. We want to help make the right decisions so we don't lose
money. But we need to make sure that we're understanding the reasons why this program was started,
the reasons why it should continue. We just want to keep that dialogue open. And I think making sure we
keep those budget open so we can have these discussions is our best foot forward so that we can work
and play alongside you in this community. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Bret. Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Fitz Stair? Fitz
Stair?
AUDIENCE: It's right there, Fitz.
FITZ STONE: Right here? Hey! Hey, I found it. Hi, my name is Fitz Stone. I'm employed at the Colorado
Center for the Blind as a Residential Manager. And I use the Access on Demand service all the time. It's
important for me to be able to get to Home Depot and stuff so that I can make the repairs for the student
housing.
And it's not something I can do on the bus or with the paratransit system. So I'm also a dad. And so I
need to be home to get to my son and everything, as well. So I just depend on the service a lot. And I
know that there's some budget cuts on the way, maybe. But I just want you to remember, and think of us,
those people who are disabled out there, working every day. So thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Fitz. Our next speaker is Jessica Beachum.
JESSICA BEACHUM: Hello, everybody. My name is Jessica Beachum. I am President, National
Federation of the Blind of Colorado.
[AUDIO OUT]
--want to talk to you about the Access on Demand service. We have many members across the RTD
service area who depend on the Access on Demand service to be able to get to and from work in a timely
manner, to be able to take their children to various activities, to be--

[AUDIO OUT]
--beautiful outdoors, and to-[AUDIO OUT]
--as full Citizens in this beautiful state of Colorado. I want to take just a second to acknowledge all of our
front-line workers who are here tonight. Thank you, guys, so much. And we appreciate you and see you
and hope that you guys get what you guys need to be able to have a living wage, here. But we also hope
that we can help the Board to understand why we need to not only continue the Access on Demand
program, but that we need to continue it at a level that allows people with disabilities who utilize Access
on Demand in Colorado to continue to live productive lives and to be able to contribute to the Colorado
economy, both as working citizens and as individuals-[AUDIO OUT]

--who-- I'm so sorry-- who enjoy the beautiful state and all of the different shopping, recreation, and
leisure, outdoor activities that it has to offer. We ask that our members, some of them who were not able
to be here tonight, reach out to the Board of Directors, particularly new Board members who maybe
haven't gotten an opportunity to meet us, that you guys give us a few minutes of your time over the next
month so that you can understand why this service matters to us, how we utilize the service, and why we
need a budget in order to keep the service going at a level that is useful to blind Coloradans. So thank
you for your time, and have a great evening.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jessica. Our next speaker for the night is Marion Niefeld. Apologies for
mispronunciation.
MARION NIEFELD: That's OK. It's Niefeld. You did great. Thanks. OK, thank you to all of the Directors.
And thank you for taking your time to hear all of us. I am also here to speak on Access on Demand, and
just that it is such an important service for those of us in our community. And I am a person-- I'm blind, but
I also have multiple disabilities. And this program has allowed me to be able to keep my job. Now, I've
been there almost 16 years next month. I'm a mom to my six-year-old son, Logan. So after work, I'm
taking him to soccer and to swim and to Spanish and to piano and just doing everything else that a parent
does.
I also worked, like Christina, right up until the day that I gave birth to my son. So I just wanted-- Christina,
you touched me so much. So I just hope that you hear us out and you realize that a cut to the Access on
Demand budget would be extremely detrimental to this program. And I also invite the new Board
members to meet us and to understand our needs as Coloradans. And I also want to give a big thank you
to everybody that is here, that is driving the buses and making them run and working on the light rail
because as blind people, we're never driving. We're a disabled community that there is never an option to
get behind the wheel of a vehicle. And so we need all of you. And I always get off the bus with a smile
and a thank you. So thank you, everyone.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker for tonight will be Wynn
Whyman. Wynn Whyman.

WYNN WHYMAN: Thank you. I got my ear on. So I'm here as an ally and a support for Access on
Demand. The reason why I got to know this community, and especially the deaf-blind community, is that I
have a severe hearing loss. And many of the members in the deaf-blind community have a hearing loss,
as well. So I'm advocating, I'm working with them, volunteering, doing fun things. And we get to go to
shows. But throughout all of our meetings, it's about listening to their great needs, their stories, and the
lifeline that they have through Access on Demand.
And the second thing-- I still have two minutes, so I'll be short-- is I'm using your Assistive Listening
System tonight. You have two of them. One of is an FM system. The other one is a Wi-Fi system. The FM
system is working well. The staff were exceptional. Information was on the agenda. It's on the website.
And nothing's ever perfect. So what was missing is that there is a huge latency problem.
So when you speak, I hear an echo. I do not have a clear sound. And that's why I'm not wearing it as I'm
speaking, because it would mess up my speech to hear two sounds and to try to speak coherently. The
Wi-Fi system, I could not get on with the QR code. I tried a couple times, and I was also helping a
colleague, as well, and we could not get on to that, as well. CART is exceptional. So I want to give a
shout out. Whoever's behind the scenes, thank you for that. And again, back to my original point of love
RTD. Access on Demand is a lifeline. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker tonight is James Flattum.
JAMES FLATTUM: All right. good evening, RTD Board. Chair, thank you for the opportunity to speak. My
name is James Flattum. I am a transit advocate and E-line rider. Tonight, I want to start-- and I'm
hopefully going to be brief. But I want to affirm the testimony of the ATU members that have been
speaking tonight, especially in regards to the issues with safety and security that they've been
experiencing, that passengers have been experiencing. And I want to raise the security in the context of
hiring and retention.
One of the points that's been made is there has been an admirable effort and admirable amount of
progress RTD has made on hiring this year, particularly in buses. But for every five Bus Operators that
we've hired, we've lost three. For every five Light Rail Operators we've hired in 2024, we've lost nearly
four. And one of the things that is up for discussion tonight is the Allied contract. One of the other pieces
of information that was presented to the Board inferred that for several months in 2024, on average,
Security staff were making less than one contact with a rail vehicle per day on the RTD network.
So I recognize that there's a lot of context, there's a lot of things that the Board should be digging into,
digging into what the exact right number should be for targets. But I think we can all agree that one
contact per day is the wrong number. We desperately need language that provides guidance to make
contact with vehicles, where security folks, mental health professionals are out there, on the network,
supporting our operators, where the operators aren't waiting for support after an incident has happened.
We need support for our operators to help them prevent incidents out on the light rail and on our buses.
So that's my comment for this evening, just consideration for how we can back up our operators. Thank
you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, James. Emma Griffin is our next speaker. Emma Griffin.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi, my name is Emma Griffin. I'm a Co-Lead for Greater Denver Transit and a regular
transit rider. The Allied Security contract with RTD is up for review this month, and as such, I wanted to
provide feedback on my experience with security on RTD system, particularly the light rail. Federal law

requires two workers be present on heavy rail, and so RTD does the rational move of having a second
person on its heavy rail lines, the A, V, G, and N, checking fares, generally creating a safer, calmer
environment for riders.
The light rail lines, on the other hand, are almost always only operated by single Train Operator, who
spends the vast majority of the trip in a segregated room, away from riders. About a year ago, I switched
from taking the 38 bus to taking the L line from 30th and Downing after having exited the 38 bus prior to
departure, due to feeling unsafe. Had I known what would happen next, however, I would have stayed on
that 38 bus that day. Upon entering the L line, there were three people present, myself, the Train
Operator, eating his lunch, as this was the terminal stop, and another passenger.
The moment, the Train Operator left to get in a separated room to operate the train, the other passenger,
a man likely in his 40s, began trying to talk to me, making clear sexual advances. He proceeded to move
over and sit next to me, where his sexual harassment intensified, as he also began asking me personal
questions about where I lived and work, and began touching me inappropriately without my consent. The
man's behavior before and after a transit worker was present was night and day.
I firmly believe that had an RTD, DTO, Transdev or Allied Security employee been present on the L Line
that day, as is required on heavy rail lines, that I would not have had my worst experience with transit, an
experience that still makes me hesitant to ride the L Line alone, despite being a transit advocate. For the
record, the outfit you see me wearing today was what I was wearing, not that should matter. Women
should be able to wear whatever they want on transit without fear of sexual harassment, assault, or
targeting.
If RTD is to renew Allied Security's contract, clear, objective, actionable requirements must be set to
ensure they are actually patrolling and riding RTD's light rail and frequent bus lines and stops. In my time
riding the RTD system, I can only remember seeing Allied Security on light rail once, in which I watched
eight employees enter the W line and proceed to sit together in one section of one car, not interacting
with riders in any way. RTD deserves better than the quality of service Allied has been providing. And
even more so, riders, especially female riders taking transit alone, deserve better.
I'd like to finish by thanking ATU Local 1001 for their participation tonight and the hard work their Union
does to make transit better in the Denver area. Our Transit Operators are the front line for providing this
essential service, and deserve better pay, benefits, and working conditions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Emma. Our next speaker for tonight is Martin Alvarez. Martin Alvarez.
MARTINE ALVAREZ: It's Martin Alvarez. Started in this business, in Service and Cleaning. Worked my
way and started working in the Parts Department. Now I work on the side of the mechanics. Pretty much
my whole life, I haven't been able to do what you would consider a normal job. So I think that RTD is a
pretty good place to work. People like myself that struggle with ADHD. I feel like we got a lot of
opportunities here. They've been given to me, probably more than any other place I've worked, for sure.
I require a type of linear work. That's why I like working as a mechanic. I'm somebody who has to have
something in front of me, something I can see, feel, touch. I'm also somebody who's a very hard worker. I
have a mom that is struggling, health wise. She's been driving for RTD, I think, for around eight years. So
I see, on a scale of things, what drivers deal with on a daily basis because when I was in Service and
Cleaning, I saw the remnants of working with the public people, working with the public in general. I saw
the remnants of it.

A lot of it was pretty gross. A lot of it was disgusting. But then a lot of it was pretty cool. We see a lot of
people that-- they drop job applications on the ground. Some of them might drop a credit card. Some of
them might drop an IOU, and then they circle somebody's name. You're dealing with everyday people,
just like everyone in this room right now.
One thing I can't do is work with the general public. It's not that I'm not able to, It's that I can't do it. I can't
do what these guys do. And the fact that some people are sitting in this room, not because they want to
be, but there's a lot of people in this room that are here because you have to be, because you have
families. A lot of these people, take a look at their faces, man. We got a pretty mixed crowd in here. And
I'm not doing so well because I'm a mechanic. I'm doing well because I know that one day, I'm going to
have to take care of my mother. I don't have a family. I don't have kids of my own. But you do.
A lot of you here because of the negativity you've had happen around you. But a lot of you are here
because you have to be. And RTD isn't such a bad place to be. So let's continue that upward spiral, OK?
Let's not let that ball-- not hit the end zone. Right?
AUDIENCE: Right.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your service, Martin. And thank you for your comments. Our next
speaker is Trent Taylor, Trent Taylor.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

TRENT TAYLOR: OK. Evening. My name is Trent Taylor. I'm a labor and employment attorney and a
citizen of Denver. I'm also a blind individual. I moved to Denver because of the many opportunities that it
offered in terms of employment and resources for someone who cannot drive. And I'm here to emphasize
the importance of retaining the benefits that are offered through the Access-- Ride on Demand Program.
And I'll speak to a couple of that proposed cuts that were modifications, that are now before the Board.
Specifically, the decrease in the allowance of rides from 60 to 30 makes it unsustainable for someone like
myself, who depends on access to Ride on Demand to travel to work. If you work a full-time schedule five
days a week, you're using, if you're going to and from work on Access-- Ride on Demand, that's 44 rides
a month. And going down from 60 to 30 really decreases your options. And in some cases, it will make it
a constraint in choosing where you want to work and where you can work.
And the importance of having this kind of access for people with disabilities cannot be understated
because, you know, of course, there's the cost side of this program, but also the benefit and the revenue
side. When people with disabilities are working, they're adding to the tax base. They're making
purchases, adding to sales tax. They are gaining income, adding to income tax. When people are not
able to go out, like myself if I don't have access to places that are located remotely or take me two hours
to get to, then we're buying stuff from national providers, not from local businesses. We're not supporting
local businesses like we should be.
And so for that reason, I think it's very important that we keep the number of rides allowed or permitted to
participants in Access, or a Ride on Demand program, at its current level. And the other proposed cuts
entertain the possibility of limiting the hours at which people can use Access or Ride on Demand. That,
too, is difficult because we don't all work 9-to-5 schedules. In addition, safety is an issue, especially as a

blind person at night. And so being able to use Access to ride instead of having to walk through a
crowded-- a dark alley-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Taylor, for your comments.
TRENT TAYLOR: --is difficult. So thank you for your time and consideration. I hope you take that in mind
when making your decisions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker for tonight is Cindy Vaughan.
CINDY VAUGHAN: Hi, my name is Cindy Vaughan. I'm an individual who has a disability, actually,
several. I am hard of hearing and have low vision. And this condition is often referred to as being deafblind. There's an individual you may see with me. She's referred to as a Support Service Provider, and
she gives me environmental information so I know things like who's around and if they're smiling or if
they're yawning or that sort of thing.
I'm here to talk to you about your Access on Demand and the continued funding and sustainability of this
program. I have always had vision and hearing limitations. However, that doesn't mean that I don't utilize
public transportation. In fact, I always use public transportation, like the bus and light rail, until some years
ago. During the winter, I was hit by a car during inclement weather while I was waiting at the bus stop
because as you know, it's not always the safest thing. So my needs changed then, and I had to adjust
and begin to look at the options available to me in terms of using paratransit services. And I became an
Access-a-Ride user and tried to use, also what they call their Access-a-Cab.
When I was an Access-a-Ride user, I worked for the state of Colorado. And I would arrive, sometimes at
work an hour or more early. I would be picked up an hour, hour and a half, sometimes two hours late. So I
would get off at 3:30, get may be picked up by 5:00, maybe get home by 7. More than half the people I
worked with used public transportation. And I guarantee you, they did not face those challenges.
When I went to buy my house, I had to make sure that my house was in a place where that would not be
dropped by Access-a-Ride, which is tied to the fixed-route service. So an Access-a-Ride user must be
within 3/4 of a mile of a fixed stop. And I had to make sure that that didn't happen to me. So I made sure I
live by the 0. I figured if they cut the 0, there probably wouldn't be any buses left. In any case, I can tell
you, I couldn't afford to live now, where I do, if I had to do it now instead of 12 years ago.
A couple of years ago, RTDA worked hard to come up with a plan that would save both RTD money and
help people with disabilities. And that's when they piloted the On-Demand program. This is important
because A, it did start to cost them less per ride, and B, it worked better than anything they had. This is
why you will see far more people using it than ever used Access-a-Ride. This is very, very important.
So I ask-- this is my ask, continue the funding of the current On-Demand services and work with the
disabilities community to collaborate with you in locating the funding to sustain it because it works. We
want to work. We want to live in affordable housing. And we want to be able to pay taxes and live our
lives just like everyone else. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments. The next speaker for tonight is Maria
Maldonado. And apologies for mispronunciation.
MARIA MALDONADO: Hello, thank you for letting me speak. My name is Maria Maldonado. And I work in
the Telephone Information Center. I've been with the company over 17 years. And my husband is a bus

driver out of Platt. What I wanted to say is that the cost of living has gone up, and our wages haven't been
able to keep up with the cost of living in Denver.
Right now, I'm working four jobs to try to keep up with the cost of living in Denver. And my husband is
working numerous hours of overtime. We have two children, two daughters that we are trying to take care
of. And I just wanted to ask for you to try to keep all of these hard workers in mind, and try to provide us
with a living wage. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments and thank you for your service. Our next speaker is
Jessica [? Friedman? ?] Jessica? I will move on to our next speaker. Maybe we can look for Jessica. Our
next speaker is Michael Farrington.
MICHAEL FARRINGTON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening. My name is Michael Farrington. I am a
transit advocate and law student. Today, I'm here to echo ATU's and GDT's message. RTD cannot be a
world-class transit system without its operators, users, and supporters feeling safe while using it. I ask
that you please improve-- excuse me-- I ask that you please improve the current contract with the security
provider, Allied Security.
As a law student, I have a number of friends who do not feel safe using and taking transit, despite us not
having parking passes, not being people who currently live in the suburbs, and being in transit-rich
environments such as downtown Denver and CU Boulder. However, they can't take transit without being
harassed, feeling unsafe, and in some situations, as my friend Emma shared, being assaulted. That's
unacceptable.
My friends have shared with me that they cannot take transit without being grabbed, without being spoken
to, without being cornered in the back of a bus, where they can't feel safe. And as busy as our operators
are-- and they're very busy taking care of everything else on the road-- they can't also be the only source
of security for our transportation system.
My experience is different from some of my fellow advocates. But I see what they experience, especially
the young women, trying to take our transit system. And it's not OK. We are tired of having to spend our
wait for our bus considering whether our group is safe. I'm tired of stories about my friends, when I speak
about RTD, immediately shifting to whether or not they're going to be harassed, and to speaking about
how they don't feel safe taking transit after they've been drinking because if they're not 100% alert, they're
worried they're going to be assaulted.
I'm tired that when I sit on the bus next to one of my friends and I put earbuds in, they go, oh, I wish I
could do that, because they don't feel safe putting an earbud in and reading a book while on our transit
system, because they're afraid of being harassed or cornered by someone that shouldn't be on transit,
and is a threat to their safety. I ask that this Board makes clear, specific standards for security while
adopting the renewed Allied contract that includes a transit security, not just Union Station security. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Michael. Our next speaker is Paolo Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi, Paolo Solorzano, RTD Riders Alliance and Greater Denver Transit. Yeah, I
just want to echo especially what was said last. Yes, there needs to be clear directives and directions for
security to be entering trains when there are incidents, like I had mentioned, 16,000 reports of drug use.
That's a Denver 7 News article. They investigated that. And there were 16,000 reports of drug use-- that's

mostly fentanyl and meth-- just reported between January 2022 and April 2023. I'm sure there was
probably 3 to 5 times more of those incidents happening in real life, out there.
So during that time-- I don't want to bring this up. And I didn't because I don't think that RTD needs to
have its reputation beaten up anymore. And I know you guys know that I am very critical. But as an
advocate, I hadn't been bringing this up. And during this time, when all this was happening, nobody ever
boarded the W Line. And the W Line was full of meth smoke. I mean, it was in the air. You could see it.
In May of 2023, I think I was high, honestly. Every single train car I got on that day was full of meth
smoke. I know how it smells like. It smells like burnt peanut butter and burnt tires. That's what the police
describe it as, as well. And the only people that know about that are people that ride the train. This has
been going on forever. And you guys, all the leadership, knew this was going on, but instead of actually
talking to us about that and admitting it, nobody did. And that's why people like me are angry.
So when this is all happening, I asked some kids, was that you guys, smoking fentanyl? And that was it. I
received a concussion. They were trying to kick my head in, but I had a bicycle helmet on. And when I
tried to get one of the kids off my back, I sprained my back. I called RTD Customer Service. I talked to
Board members, like Mr. Guzman about this. And I was told by some people, like Guzman, to stop
complaining about things like this. It took me months and months to recover from that. And I asked for
callbacks from RTD and nobody ever called me back.
I'll just leave it at that. This has been going on for a long time. You guys know it's been going on. So
please start having a presence on light rail that are not on there. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Paolo. Our next speaker for tonight is Eric Johnson.
Eric Johnson, please come to the podium.
ERIC JOHNSON: I'm here to express my concerns about how top heavy the organization is, with many
acting positions and repetitive and unnecessary positions. Drivers and mechanics are RTD's bread and
butter. Without bus operators, train operators, mechanics, cleaners, et cetera, there wouldn't be any need
for a management team.
The drivers' experience on a daily basis, the stress of traffic, bedbugs, fentanyl and other drug use,
homelessness, being spit on, hit, yelled at, other poor public behavior, all while being overworked and
unappreciated by management, RTD skilled Union workers having their pay questioned in the extra hours
we give the company to make our income a livable wage. Since I've been with the company, I've
observed the inability to retain drivers, in part due to the lack of support of new members, starting pay is
low, scheduling, positive encouragement by management. I'd like to see RTD support the Union workers
like they support its management team. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your service and Thank you for your comments, Mr. Johnson. Our
next speaker is Paul Cordova.
PAUL CORDOVA: Hi, my name is Paul. And I also have my son along with me, that has something he
would like to say. I've been with RTD for a year and a few months now. I love my job, so much that I had
my own hoodie made, and a hat, so much that I love telling people that I work here. But it's been
frustrating when the only way-- to have to work-The only thing that's frustrating is having to work on my days off, when I want to, at some time, spend
time with my kids. I come to work with a smile on my face and a positive attitude, but still, it hurts,

thinking, does RTD even care about us? I'm just asking if we could get a better wage. I want to continue
to love my job. But I also want my job to continue to love us and my brothers and sisters and my family
here.
PAUL CORDOVA: Hello, my name is also Paul Cordova. But I'm also just concerned about the wages
here. I recall an incident where I was wrestling with the school. And he wasn't able to pick me up because
he was still working here. And I had to wait there for about 30 minutes until he actually could. It just
rushes into events like that, parts of my life, parts that I want him to see. And then with anything, he just
comes home, and I only get to see him four hours a day, max, from like 5:00 PM to 9:00 PM until he has
to sleep, go back to work at 3:00 in the morning, and then it's the same cycle, over and over.
Even with that in mind, he still has to cut out of his own needs. He has to cut out of our wants just to make
ends meet. Literally, he's had problems with even financial security just because he can't cut certain
things out. He's cut everything he can out.
I grew up in Weld County. He's been in the city his whole life. But even in Weld County, where things are
cheaper, I still feel these effects. I've been there all my life. He's been here all his life. And it's still not
enough to pay for things over there, where the rent's $1,200. Anyway, thank you for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Paul, for your service. And thank you, Paul and Paul, for your comments.
Our second to last in-person speaker is Barry McGee, Barry McGee.
BARRY MCGEE: Hello, thank you. My name is Barry McGee. I've been a mechanic here for-- I'm in my
28th year now. So I've seen a lot of great things in this company. I raised a family because of this
company. So I'm very grateful for it.
I'm not going to sit here and talk about how we're not getting paid enough money and the cost of living
because we've heard plenty of that. I am a service truck operator. So I'm out on the road every day. And
sometimes we forget that this is a bus company and this is about people, like the Access Colorado. And
I'm out there, I see people with carts full of laundry that they're taking to the laundromat kids going to
school, people going to work, elderly people on the buses.
And one of the greatest feelings around is having a bus that's broken down, and I go and fix that bus, and
then a short time later, I see that bus full of people, going down the road, people like the Access Colorado
and stuff. That's what RTD is about. And without the skilled workers we can't provide that service.
Here, I see people from Facilities Maintenance, drivers, train operators, all walks of this company. And we
are what makes this company go. And so just please consider the public. This is, like I said, about people.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Barry. And thank you for your service. Our final
speaker, in person, who's on our list, is Ron Piifer. Ron Piifer.
RON PIIFER: Hello, Board members. I've worked for RTD for 25 years. And I've loved the job, there's no
doubt about that. But I've seen some changes. And what has me concerned the most, and the real issue
for me-- I'm getting ready to retire pretty soon, so I do count on the pension that comes from RTD-- is on
the technical side, because I'm not speaking from the driver's side or any of that. I've been a mechanic all
my life.
And what I need to address is that I feel like you need to raise the wages for everybody. But on the
technical side, you're losing people to, like, Xcel And they're not going for-- starting wages at a different

place like Xcel, it's not just $1. You're talking like $10 an hour. For even the highest-paid mechanic at
RTD, they're starting there, at they're hiring wage, $10 or more.
And when you try to bring people in to replace them, what I feel like-- and you need to talk to people like
Eric and Dave that are a part of the hiring process-- is, they've lowered the standard for mechanics, and
not just on the mechanics side, but FM, Facility Maintenance, as well, the bar on the test to get in there.
And why? Because the wages is not enough to bring in a skilled mechanic already. You're hiring people
that do not have much skill at all.
And in order for RTD to survive, you need the equipment running, not on the side of the road. You need
skilled technicians to do that. You're not going to get it to happen, where you can bring more people in,
because you always have a change of your workforce. You need to up the wages, but not just for the
mechanics, but for everybody. But I'm only talking about my issue that I've seen over the 25 years.
Please, think about, when you pay more, you probably get more. When you hire somebody to come to
your home, to do something, you don't pick the person that's the cheapest to do the job on your home for
fixing something. You have to be more selective and put more money into it. I know time's up, but that's
my issue. And I wanted to bring it up, and hope that you people understand. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, sir. Board Executive Manager Kroll has anyone
raised their virtual hand?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Bouquet. We have, at this juncture, five individuals who have raised their hand.
We may have more as we go on. And the first of which is Former Director, I believe, Jaime Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Lewis, you are recognized.
JAIME LEWIS: Good evening, Directors. Tonight you'll be asked to fully fund Access on Demand through
December of this calendar year. This is important because staff will soon be presenting their findings and
recommendations to ensure TOD will be sustainable for the future. If approved by the RTD Board at a
future date, it will take months to develop and implement such a plan.
Any interruptions to the service, to AOD during this time, would be unacceptable to our community.
Interruptions could mean loss of employment, interruptions to medical care, or create difficulty in
attending events and meetings previously scheduled, not to mention other daily activities. So we ask you
to approve the funding request that you will see tonight for Access on Demand. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Former Director Lewis. Mr. Kroll, who is our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have Mary Henneck.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mary, you're recognized.
MARY HENNECK: Hello, my name is Mary Henneck. I am speaking tonight as an advocate for the
disability community. It is imperative that you approve the 2025 Access on Demand budget. The disability
community depends on this service to maintain their employment, health, and well-being. RTD staff has
portrayed Access on Demand as a supplemental and premium service. While these are technical terms
that flow from ADA language, they are easily misconstrued by the general public.

RTD staff has used this phrasing to sway the media, the general public, and you, the Board, into thinking
that this program is a luxury and a bonus for its disabled riders. It is not. Access on Demand is the only
predictable and reliable means these riders have to get to work, medical appointments and activities in
their communities. Access-a-ride, the other paratransit service, does meet some riders needs. However, it
is neither predictable nor reliable enough to meet the needs of many.
It is clear that paratransit ridership has increased. But Access on Demand has not created a new market
as RTD staff likes to tell you. There was an unmet need for an under-served community who now is able
to do the things that typical adults, like you and me, are able to do. Thank you for your time, and thank
you in advance for your yes vote on this budget.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mary, for your comments. Mr. Kroll, who is our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Nate Trela.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Nate, you are recognized.
NATE TRELA: Yes, thank you, Chair and Directors. I am Nate Trela of Englewood. I am a blind person
and a paratransit user. I've spoken at a lot of meetings over the past year about Access on Demand. And
I appreciate the deliberate effort staff have been making lately to incorporate feedback from the
community as they develop changes that will make the program both sustainable and remaining useful.
It's so important that any changes that are going to be coming down the pike do both of those things.
I'm glad everyone seems to understand that the initial draconian proposal to change the program would
have effectively gutted it, and that's already been tossed aside by staff. I don't know if the next proposal
will get us where we need to be, but we've got a couple of months to work on that before you'll be voting
on anything. I appreciate the continued willingness to listen to the community on this. Since almost half
the Board members here are new this year, I don't know how deeply you've looked at this program or how
closely you've been following the discussion about possible changes to it.
It's been a model for transit agencies around the country, really, in terms of the freedom of movement and
independence it's granted users. If moving people and making lives better through connections are your
goals, Access on Demand is a success. It's opened doors to live, work, and engage with the community
that just aren't there without it. For me, it makes it possible in a given day to get my daughter to and from
school, get to work, run errands, get to medical appointments on the same day. And that doesn't seem
like much because it's something any of you on the Board can do without having to think twice about it.
It's literally not possible with traditional Access to Ride, with the schedule widows and other demands that
are put in place by it. It's not financially feasible, using ride shares to do that without Access on Demand.
So as we're talking about cost controls, we have to be sure they don't gut the program in the process. For
example, anything less than 50 rides is going to create barriers for people who work full time.
And the idea of reducing the service hours in areas, for a relatively small savings and creating a new
administrative burden to enforce it, will translate into people who work night shifts or work at certain
locations at the edge of the Metro area losing their jobs. It's going to translate into people needing to
move, people needing to take their kids out of their schools, and change their lives around.
And we'll definitely have a chance to talk more about this in the coming months. And I especially look
forward to speaking with your Board members about this. Tonight, I just want to really emphasize the
importance of approving the additional $2 million needed to fully fund the program for 2025. That's money

needed because you're doing the right thing, and not rushing to make drastic cuts. Those are dollars that
will allow the space needed to have a thoughtful, deliberate, decision-making process. So we're asking
the Board to make that allocation happen. And then we can get down to the work of strengthening access
on demand for the future. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Nate. Kroll, our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next is James Triplett.
JULIEN BOUQUET: James, you are recognized. James, we cannot hear you if you are speaking. My
recommendation-AUTOMATED SPEAKER: Audio now unmuted.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK, this is Joe Triplett-- or James Triplett. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: This is perfect, James. Thank you.
JAMES TRIPLETT: OK, thank you. I've been speaking several times in these Board meetings. And I'm an
Access-a-Ride user. And I just want to say, I do agree with the extra money that Access on Demand
wants, but I really feel like RTD has ignored the Access-a-Ride users. We have over 2,000 people on
Access-a-Ride who cannot ride Access on Demand for many reasons-- and for time, I can't go into them-but for the lack of the fact of their disability or whatever.
I'm one of them. I have to use Access-a-Ride. I cannot use Access on Demand because RTD does not
require them to help us from the vehicle to our destination. Because of my blindness and the fact that my
travel's not that good, I can't use it. And there's 2,000 other people on Access-a-Ride who can't use it for
various reasons.
We have not heard anything about Access-a-Ride except complaints. I'm an advocate for people on
Access-a-Ride who cannot speak for themselves. Before the Board makes a decision on Access on
Demand, please make some improvements. Our buses are raggedy. They rattle. They squeak. And the
shocks on them are not good. I mean, we bounce like a basketball.
I'm trying not to be too critical, but all I'm asking is, I feel like I am the lone advocate. And that's OK. I've
been there before. But please, make some changes for Access-a-Ride in addition to Access on Demand.
2,000 people, we really need that. We need buses that don't rattle. We need buses that ride as well as
other vehicles that RTD has. And I really want some improvements for Access-a-Ride. I've given them
before, but please, please, don't leave us out. You got 2,000 people that have to have Access-a-Ride.
I wish we could use Access on Demand. I wish Access on Demand was required to take us, say, up to
the door of a building when we don't know where it's at, just like Access-a-Ride. Unfortunately, the last
contract that they did, they did not demand that. So in this new contract, please tell them that they really
need to incorporate-- they need to be required to take us to and from our door, not just drop us off.
And one thing you have not heard about Access on Demand-- I've heard this from a lot of people-- they
drop you off in the wrong place a lot of times. And if you're blind and it's a new place or even an old place,
if they drop you off in the wrong place, you could very easily get lost. You could very easily get hit by a
car or something if you happen to wander out on the street and don't know it. So I really wish this

requirement would be done. And please, make some Access-a-Ride improvements for the passenger.
And give us-- for example.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, James. Thank you for your comments.
SPEAKER: --lower your hand in 8 seconds.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments, James. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Richard Bamber.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Bamber, you are recognized.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. My fellow
advocates have been sending me videos and pictures. So it's great to see all the ATU 101 folks here
tonight. Nobody deserves a livable wage and a safe and secure working environment as much as you
guys do. Greater Denver Transit stands with you all the way.
Now, my story, number 38 bus, 22nd of December last year, about 10:15 in the evening. The individual
was so disrespected by me bending down to pick up an item I dropped while boarding that he ended up
whacking me on the bus. The glorious photo is with the Directors and management and the GDT letter
tonight. And if anyone else wants to see it, check out our social media.
I've just come back from St. Lewis, where we rode the entire light rail system, boarded about 9 or 10
trains, and on every train, there was a member of security or a police officer, just patrolling. This system
includes stations in East St. Lewis, widely regarded as one of the most poverty-stricken and dangerous
and violent areas in the United States. I felt safer on the train there than I do on the W Line.
Why is this? Well, last year, St. Lewis Metro started implementing its Secure Platform Plan. Three strings
to it, one, be the first light rail system in the United States to go from open to fully closed and secured with
fencing and fare gates at every station. Second-- and I appreciate RTD's already doing this-- lots more
cameras and a live-look system. But thirdly, and most important of all, putting police officers and Allied
Security staff on the trains, on the buses, and on the platforms.
I encountered one police officer who was simply shuttling between two stations, just checking and looking
at everybody on the train, checking in with the operator to see if everything was OK, and then getting off. I
asked him, how many trains did he ride? He said, in the next hour, I'll ride between 12 and 14. In the next
month, he expected to ride between 8 and 900 trains. Compare that with RTD Police's pitiful 40 trains in
three-month figure.
Tonight, I'd like to ask, where is our proper system-wide security strategy that focuses on all the lines,
rather than just Union Station? And why are provisions of this, and targets for actually getting out on the
system, on those buses and trains, not being written into the Allied Security contract? Thank you very
much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Richard. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker online.
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, at this time, I see no further hands raised.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any speakers in person who would like to speak, and who are not on our
list? Anyone? Going once. Going twice. Excellent. We are going to be taking a break.
JACK KROLL: Let me read into the record the names of the-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, my apologies, Sir. Yes, comments received for today's meeting.
JACK KROLL: Yes, so you all received the following emailed comments from Cody Bates regarding
reliability of service, from [? Elsie ?] Dougherty regarding Access on Demand, Joe Beaver, Brian Grewe,
Mary Henneck, Jessica, Carol Silvestain, all regarding Access on Demand, Matt Applebaum regarding
Senate Bill 161, and Greater Denver Transit, regarding the security contract referenced by Mr. Bamber.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Seeing no other participants in the queue, we will
now close public participation. We will be taking a break to allow everyone to get ready for our business
for tonight. Mr. Kroll, would five minutes suffice for your staff? 10 minutes? All right, we will be reconvened
at 7:27.
Thank you very much, everyone, for your patience. And again, thank you very much for all the comments
that we heard today. It was very insightful. So we are moving on now, to our External Entities Report. This
month, we have one External Entity Report regarding the joint rail-planning efforts. Today's guests are
Diane Barrett, Special Advisor to the Governor for Joint Rail Service, Del Walker, HNTB, Denver Office
Leader, and Tom Rousakis, Ernst Young, US Transactions Infrastructure Leader.
Before I ask for a presenters to begin, I want to offer the floor to GM CEO Johnson for some opening
remarks. Ms. Johnson, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all that are virtually
assembled and those that are present in the room. I am Debra Johnson. I have the pleasure of serving as
the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. As Chair Bouquet indicated this evening, we have an
External Entities Report relative to the collaboration in which RTD has been doing, along with Front
Range Passenger Rail District, in addition to the Colorado Department of Transportation, as well as the
State.
As you may recall, at last month's meeting, we had a presentation, whereby Diane Barrett provided an
update relative to the efforts that had been undertaken since September 1-- or September 30, I should
say, of 2024, in which there was a submittal to the legislature as outlined in statute, relative to some
cooperative efforts in trying to see whether some synergies to realize an intercity passenger rail option for
the Front Range.
Since such time, there has been additional work being done, trying to ensure that there is some
collaboration relative to leveraging operational efficiencies, to bring about greater mobility options to the
Front Range, including rail. Further to the point, you may recall that RTD undertook, with the support of its
jurisdictional partners, a planning study relative to North West Rail Peak feasibility, in which we were
looking to see, how might this agency deliver some service along what we now know as the B Line?
Recognizing that there had been work there, and this agency was much more far along than the Front
Range Passenger Rail District, leveraging that information for the betterment of optimizing those
efficiencies I just alluded to.
So what we have here tonight is, providing information relative to a looming deadline, whereby in
legislation, it's stated that we should be presenting a comprehensive understanding to the legislature of,

how might we deliver some form of passenger rail along the Front Range? As indicated, there's the
Northwest Rail Peak Feasibility Study, and references some foundational pieces have been utilized as it
relates to some aspect of potential funding that totally rests within the auspices of this governing body, as
well as the other governing bodies of the principles of the other agencies in which are involved with this
undertaking. So with that contextual explanation, I will now yield the floor to my colleagues, and provide
an opportunity for Ms. Barrett to kick off the discussion. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Barrett, you're recognized.
DIANE BARRETT: Thank you very much. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. I appreciate the
introduction. I'm here with two colleagues, one Del Walker from HNTB. Del has been working with us as
part of the HNTB team that is responsible for the Service Development Plan, going forward. Del has done
a little special work for us, regarding finding a low-cost number for the joint service, [? starter ?] service,
and Tom Rousakis from Ernst Young, which now calls itself EY, inexplicably, I think. But anyway, EY has
been doing financial analysis for us, and has particularly been looking at revenue streams available for
starter service.
I want to talk tonight-- I'm going to skip my slides, basically. I think you would appreciate a little bit shorter
visit with me. So I'm going to just talk briefly about the two bills that were adopted by the legislature last
spring. 230 is a bill that basically establishes a production fee on oil and gas production. And that revenue
stream is dedicated to transportation, primarily rail transportation, and is anticipated to achieve, in its first
full fiscal year, $116 million per year. That is a surprise to a lot of people. But I start with that because it's
one of two bills that are doing similar things with respect to state revenues.
The second is the one that we've been talking about most here, when we've been to see you before, and
that is 184. And 184 establishes a congestion and pollution fighting revenue stream by a fee on rental
cars, an additional fee on rental cars. And it, too is in the hundred-million-dollar range annually, as a State
revenue.
I don't know why everybody's not more excited about that than they are. That is a lot of money. And as we
began looking at how we might use that money, it became clear that it's going to really do us a lot of
good. That red slide, up there is the last of the slides that I'm not going to talk to tonight. And I want you to
look at it as I'm talking so that you see how joint service brings those other blobs together. And those
other blobs are CDOT and RTD and the Front Range Passenger Rail District.
Those bodies have been charged with trying to work together to create a starter service that can actually
start running by January of '29. Now that, for you youngsters, doesn't sound like it's very close. But for the
rest of us, that is darn close. And I do think that we are really getting going a long way toward the
collaboration that the legislature had in mind when they adopted 184.
So in addition to the money, the revenue that 184 is going to produce, the legislature requires the study
that we've been undertaking. And we have done this by creating committees out of the staff and the
executives from all the agencies, the partner agencies. And the committees that we've been working on
are Operations Committee-- and at the Operations Committee, we're talking about things like, who's the
operator for our starter service? What's the alignment of our starter service? How many round trips can
we do? The study is required by the legislature to study three round trips and five round trips. But what
can we actually work with?

The other committees are the Governance Committee, where we decided early on that the executives
would, as a committee of oversight, would enter into an IGA. The statute gave us some options, but the
IGA seemed to be the easiest and probably the best way to operate and to govern ourselves as we move
forward. So that's what the executive is doing. And then with respect to the revenue sources, there's a
Finance Committee that works with that and with the idea of budgeting for the actual project, once it gets
going.
We're required, under the statute, to present another study, another report of our work on March 1. And
that is in draft. Our principals have reviewed it. Your Executive Director was the first one to give
comments on the draft report. Thank you very much. And we are well on our way with that. Also, the IGA
is in draft. And I think your General Counsel and the other lawyers of the other principal agencies are all
working on the IGA draft.
The revenue sources have been examined. And tonight, Tom is going to talk to you about those revenue
sources. Del is going to talk to you about the project itself, what the joint service can accomplish and how
much it's going to cost. We asked Del to give us the lowest possible cost for the starter service, the lowest
possible cost, to begin in January '29.
We have all kinds of other information. We have the ongoing service development plan for Front Range
Rail. We have all kinds of information. But what you're going to hear tonight is the lowest-cost option for
Joint Service Starter Service. And then Tom is going to go over the revenue streams, what their
expectation is about those revenue streams, and what conclusions we can draw from that. So with no
further ado, Del Walker.
DEL WALKER: Thank you, Diane. Diane teed that up really well. And I really want to begin, saying that
one, it wasn't just Del. I had a number of thought leaders within our organization that really helped support
this conversation around, what does the starter service look like? It's not the Service Development Plan
that we're currently engaged in, working with the Front Range Passenger Rail District and CDOT to help
develop. This was something different, specifically related to this joint service look and view.
Debra talked about the Northwest Rail portion of that. What you see on the screen are the eight stations
that are identified as part of the Joint Service perspective, three of which would be Northwest Rail specific
stations, and then the five stations that are associated with the Front Range Passenger Rail, eight
stations in total. What does that look like from a full starter service perspective?
I'm going to go forward and talk about some of the base assumptions that we needed to keep in play to
make sure that we're playing well in the sandbox, mainly with the BNSF freight lines, and their
expectations of being able to be held harmless, relative to their on-time service for their constituents
throughout the corridor. So that was first and foremost. The eight stations, also that you see there, that
was another operating requirement, and then making sure that we incorporated the FRA requirement for
positive train control. That was a significant part of the effort.
And then you can see that the three round trips and five round trips, as stated by legislation, was to be
looked at. And I'm going to be able to walk you through how three round trips is less expensive than a five
round trip scenario. But I think you can all surmise that, based upon your understanding.
Here, we have the number of seats that would be available under a three round-trip scenario, each train
and the consists associated with that. A five-car consist is the baseline and 1,200 seats per day, a total,
on an annual basis, of 445 seats that would be available.

So this slide is a visual depiction of what the necessary improvements would be under the three roundtrip scenario. I didn't want to get into too much detail, but there are a number of [? sightings ?] that would
be necessary, [? sightings ?] that are identified in the Northwest Rail Peak Study, [? sightings ?] that are
identified in the Front Range Passenger Rail studies that we have performed. And they're all indicative
here. This is the hold harmless from a BNSF perspective, to make sure that we can have an operating
capacity for both the Freight Operations as well as the Passenger Operations that are necessary.
The next slide I'm going to show you, which was not costed out-- and I'm going to flip back and forth so
that you can see some of the assumptions and improvements. This is three round trips, back to the five
round trips. You can see that there's changes to the [? sightings ?] relative to the number of vehicles that
would be on the system, competing with freight rail, thus the need for additional improvements that would
be associated with that, again, not costed out as part of this scenario that we ran through, but something
that is important to know and understand, in terms of how this all comes together.
So what did we come up with? We were able to identify a low-cost option of $885 million. That's what you
see there, in green. There is another approach that could additionally reduce that cost by another $100
million. I'm going to talk about that as we approach the next slide, but just wanted to give you a flavor of
the realm of possibilities that would exist, based upon what we came up with.
So here-- and it's hard to physically see, but let's take the diagram on the right, which is the $885 million
that I talked about. What we did was, we maintain FRA-specific levels of contingency at the individual
SEC code-- let's call that line-item code level-- to a 30% effort, and then after that, came up with a 15%
contingency that was associated with the overall program.
Why did we keep that? Well, one, it's in compliance with FRA guidelines on how this would all be done.
We didn't perform any additional engineering analysis or reached a milestone where we could reduce
those contingencies. So we chose not to. We only look at physical element options and how the reduction
in those costs could impact where we're going to find the overall number. On the right-hand side-- did I
say left-hand side?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. But that's OK. We forgive you.
DEL WALKER: I'm sorry. On the right-hand side, you could see a contingency approach. We took the
contingency out of the individual line items, and lumped them as a 30% contingency, overall. Not that
would be recommended, certainly not at this stage of design development, but that is another option that
could be used to further reduce the expected cost that would be performed. But again, not recommending
that as the solution, here.
So I'm going to start with the vehicles and what we took a look at. From a three-car, three round-trip
scenario, the five-car consist that was identified as the baseline is where we stood. Under five round trips,
there would be the need for additional vehicles. So you can see how the cost reduction is relative to the
three round trips, the number of consists that would be necessary to make the round trips, plus a spare
ratio that's in alignment with typical FRA-FTA requirements.
So that's where we came up with the $124, the contingency approach, again, taking the contingency out
of the individual line item and just reducing that to a 30% contingency at the end of the day. That's where
you see the difference in those numbers. I don't intend to spend much time in the future slides, talking
about the contingency approach, but really focus more on the low-cost option approach.

Taking a look at stations, we were able to make assumptions about the essential amenities that would be
required to be developed as part of the overall solution. What does that mean? The platforms and links to
the platforms would be conducive to have five-car trains associated with that, the passengers for those
trains being able to ingress and egress off of those platforms. For a more robust service, the platforms
would need to be longer. But for this particular low-cost option and the three round-trip scenario of
conforming to the five-car consist and the development of the length necessary for that was the approach
that we chose.
There's again, this assumed essential amenities would not include access additional amenities that could
be potentially further pursued as options at a later state, where additional funding might be applied to
local municipalities or other efforts that could fund those additional amenities beyond the essential
assumed. So for the Support Facilities Yard Shop-- this was a big line item-- we found some efficiencies,
based upon those subject matter experts that I brought to the table to do this review, where we saw some
opportunity for improvements to the cost.
That's where the $111 million comes from. But there could be additional cost savings, should the
maintenance facility be provided by the operator. We did not include those cost savings that would be
associated with that, but that's something to consider as we're making considerations about the operator
of these facilities.
Next, communications and signaling-- I talked about some of the early PTC that would be necessary. This
includes those costs. We saw and recognized some of the communication through fiber reductions for a
little bit of a net cost savings from what we thought might be present previously. And that's where you see
the $198 million associated with that.
So for the site work, we specifically looked at the homestead siting due to the CRISI grant and some of
the elements there as an offshoot from the other communication elements, the other trackwork elements,
which I'll talk about a little bit later, and saw that as an individual item that we wanted to discuss here.
That's where that $16 million number comes from. And then track structures and track-- we did take a
look at all of the necessary elements associated with retaining walls, culverts, bridges, turnouts, the track
work that would need to be done to facilitate the transfer from a freight rail service to a passenger rail
service and the improvements that would need to be made there. And we came up with $100 million for
that cost.
And then professional services, as a function of the normal percentage of the construction cost, we're
able to show a reduction, based upon all those other line-item elements, where we're now identifying
$129 million. What we did from a NEPA perspective is, also recognized that the constrained corridor, the
use of the existing trackage that's available from both a BNSF perspective, as well as the RTD Northwest
Rail perspective, is really going to constrain NEPA. We think that there's a cost-reduction element
associated with that. And we've identified it here.
So back to-- that's the summary slide. And what we came up with, these are the numbers that represent
what we believe to be the lowest-cost option relative to the information that we've obtained, so far. Again,
this is not an engineering analysis. There's much more engineering to be done. That's why we maintained
the contingency levels at the FRA-FTA level guidance that informs this presentation. With that, I really
think Tom would like to walk you through the remainder of the presentation.
DIANE BARRETT: Yeah, let me just say-- thank you, Del-- that Tom is going to-- everything that you're
hearing tonight is a snapshot in time. We're on a path. And we would like to stay on that path, if possible.

And we think that the looking is good at this point. And we'll let Tom talk to us about the financial side. But
just know, nothing's concluded. There's nothing in the air that would allow us to say anything is final. This
is all just letting you know where we are. Tom?
TOM ROUSAKIS: Great. Thank you, Diane. And as Diane mentioned-- so our analysis-- working with
CDOT takes in the inputs that Del discussed, and incorporates them into a financial model that also, then
incorporates the available funding sources in order to identify the shortfall as we know it today. A lot of
this is very preliminary data. But I think the intent of it is to inform all the various stakeholders as to what
the additional needs are as or what can be done from a service perspective in order to further reduce
costs, going forward.
And so I won't drain this slide. But as Diana talked about, this is an exercise in order to meet the
requirements under SB184 legislation with the March 1 deadline, in order to identify potential funding
sources and a potential path forward around, in this particular instance, Joint Service, be able to provide
service from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins.
And as Del already reviewed, the service that we're talking about would add additional eight stations, with
three being RTD stations in Westminster, Broomfield, and Louisville. And again, three round trips is the
assumption. And what we're looking at here is, a lowest-cost alternative for a starter service.
Now, Del discussed the cost of $885 million. That is in present-value terms. And so when we convert this
into a financial model, we need to include inflation. And so thinking about a build out of this starter
service, that number goes from $885 million to $1.1 billion. Clearly, the ability to do this faster-- sooner, I
should say-- could bring that down and minimize the cost of inflation.
So what we have here is hopefully, a conservative inflation assumption. But the numbers, just so you
folks aren't confused, is from a year-of-expenditure perspective, $1.1 billion that we're looking at. And
what we lay out, on the right, is the breakdown of those costs. And Del walked you through all of those,
with the largest of that cost being the PTC-related signaling.
What we also have here, is the current estimates around operating costs, and so looking at, from 2029, a
$27 million operating cost, increasing to $29 million, and the various aspects that make up that operating
cost. Note that this is routine operating costs. This does not yet include estimates or set asides for major
rehabilitation and maintenance. And that is still-- we have some assumptions in there, but that is
something that's going to need to be at a next stage, focused on, to a greater degree, to make sure that
the funding sources that are identified are ultimately sustainable.
And here, we lay out the various funding sources that are being contemplated for the starter service, for
Front Range Passenger Rail and joint service with RTD. And so we talked about the CRISI Grant, that is
directed towards positive train control and the State matching grant, there, so 66 and then close to $28
million, the SB 184 revenue, the 230 revenue financing proceeds against those revenue streams, and any
potential RTD contribution relating to that joint-service element. And likewise, some of these sources are
only available for capital. But likewise, some of these sources are available for capital, as well as
Operations and Maintenance. None of these assumptions, beyond the CRISI grant, make any-- this
model, at this point, makes no assumptions around potential future federal grants, with the idea of being
conservative in that regard.
And so what we have here is, a depiction of the State's projections around the various revenue streams,
so the SB 184 revenue, that being the rental-car fee, growing from roughly $50 million and increasing

over time. And so you look at revenue streams like that, they seem very well suited to making sure that
you're covering Operations and Maintenance over time, for the service. And then on the right-hand side,
you have the SB 230 revenues. That's the oil and gas extraction fees. And those are projected to be fairly
level over time, with some volatility, being a different type of revenue stream. So from a planning
perspective, I think it's challenging to think about that-- any growth around that revenue stream.
And so what we show here is-DIANE BARRETT: Shall we introduce Craig here?
TOM ROUSAKIS: Yeah, I was going to wait for the next one.
DIANE BARRETT: Oh, OK.
TOM ROUSAKIS: Yes, yes. But last point here, is what we assume-- the white lines here are the total
revenues that the State is going to be collecting under these two acts, and then the violet lines being 50%
of that. And as Diane had mentioned before, that there are other projects. The other main project from a
State perspective is Mountain Rail. And so the assumptions, as we're walking into this financial model, is
that 50% of this revenue would be available for Front Range and Joint Service.
Now, if we delve a little bit into SB 230, Clean Transit Enterprise Fund, we do have the new Director of
the Clean Transit Enterprise Fund, Craig Secrest, here in the audience. So I think he wants to introduce
himself.
CRAIG SECREST: Yeah, I can do it from here. OK. All right, Mike, [INAUDIBLE]. Thank you. So I'm Craig
Secrest. I just recently started as the new Director of the Clean Transit Enterprise. And mostly, I just
wanted to say hello and introduce myself. As Tom's sharing, there's a lot of money here. And there's a lot
of good we can do. And the State's really looking forward to working with you. And I'm looking forward to
working with you, to figure out how we make this sizable investment really work for both Denver and the
State. So I said, I look forward to seeing you down the road. Thank you.
DIANE BARRETT: Thank you, Craig.
TOM ROUSAKIS: Thanks, Craig. And so if we take a deeper dive into that SB 230 revenue stream, the
revenues that we had associated with that, on the previous page, is the 20% of the total revenue to be
collected under it. So that is the revenue that goes to the state for the Rail Funding Program cash funds,
that will be used for Front Range, as well as Mountain Rail and potential other uses. But then, that
remaining 80% to be distributed for local Transit operations and grants. And so all we're looking at, at this
point in time, is the 20%.
And then as a potential funding partner in this, we have information here that you all should know fairly
well, from an RTD capacity standpoint. You have your 1%. You have the dedicated portions, the
FasTracks and then the base system. And then when FasTracks was passed in 2004, it came with
certain limitations on the ability to issue debt. We don't lay all of that out here. Based on latest
disclosures, roughly $300 million in principal capacity could potentially be applicable here, but just in
terms of summing that from a debt-capacity standpoint.
But clearly, from a transit system perspective, there's voting capacity, then there's actual capacity to be
able to repay that. And so from a cash perspective, what we laid out here is the available resources of
RTD on an annual basis from sales taxes as well as released reserves, on the left-hand side, your total

system, on the right-hand side, from the FasTracks itself, as well as then, the reserves that are being
accumulated, both from a FISA perspective and unrestricted reserves, as well as overall capital and
operating reserves, as well, going from $900 and so million down to $848 million. And this is in your fiveyear forecast. So I think the State doesn't necessarily have an understanding of what's beyond those five
years and the like, but I think from an available funding perspective, this is the information that is out there
today.
And so where does that leave this analysis? What we've tried to do here, is give a simple snapshot of the
potential funding gap. And we've done that in two snapshot years. We've done that in 2032, which is a
stabilized revenue year and also year that includes all of the debt service, and then 2050 as a future year
to understand what that funding gap is.
And so what we have on the left are the costs. And you'll notice in 2032, as well as 2050, we're assuming
some sort of level debt-service structure, agnostic to the type of debt that might be, roughly $50 million of
debt, and then on top of that, the O&M costs. And what you'll see is, in the early years, the green bars
being what's available from the State revenue streams that we've laid out on the prior page, as well as
farebox revenues, ancillary revenues as well, coming just short of capital, and then having a gap from an
operating perspective-- and that's in 2032-- of roughly $39 million.
And then, looking out to 2050-- and as the previous charts have shown, some of those revenue streams
do grow. And so in 2050, your $50 million of debt service, summing up that $1.1 billion, equivalent to $50
million of debt service, that's after the CRISI grant and state grants are applied, those State funding
sources amount to over $70 million, leaving the remaining $50 million of funding gap in that later point in
time. And in this 2050, we do have a rough estimate for rehab and major maintenance. But that, again, as
I mentioned earlier, would need to be refined in further study.
And so that's where I think we would leave that. Sources of that gap, approach of that gap could be both
a funding, as well as on the operation side of things, and in terms of upfront payments or ongoing
revenue streams from the various funding partners. And so I think-- Diane, anything else?
DIANE BARRETT: No, I think I think that's pretty clear. And thank you, Tom, and for all this work. It all
has many refinements to go through and a lot to learn. But we do, I think, believe that with respect to 184
and its March 1 requirement for answering two questions, one, Is there enough money? And that means
available, not committed, not available only for the Joint Service project, Starter Service project, but
available revenue is sufficient to start a starter service by January 29. And that being true, we don't have
to ask the legislature to go running around, finding us another revenue stream.
What we need, really at this point, is really, political will to use monies in this way. And we hope that we
can continue to work collaboratively with the State, through CTIO and CTE, with Front Range Passenger
Rail District and CDOT, to achieve that goal of a starter service in 2029. And I believe that General
Manager Johnson is going to take it from here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you so much for the presentation. At this juncture, Chair, I would yield the
floor to you, to facilitate any questions that this body may have. Thanks.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. I did see Secretary Nicholson's hand first. Before I call the question, I just
want to thank you all for being here. Thank you for your patience. And thank you for the presentation.
Secretary Nicholson, you're recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I really appreciated the presentation and just the incredible
deck that you offered. I learned a great deal about Passenger Rail and financing from reading all of this. It
was extraordinarily information dense. The question I have, when looking at this-- so my understanding is
basically, it's $885 million in today's dollars, $1.1 billion in YOA, which I don't actually know what that
stands for, but I know it's plus inflation. That's for build out, and then another $27 million to $29 million a
year for Operations. And then you have debt service in there, on the last slide.
Help me with a simple number. Of that $885 million, how much is RTD going to be responsible for, based
on what we know about all of the other revenue sources being not fixed, but-TOM ROUSAKIS: Well, I think I think, Diane, this is something that-- these numbers are fresh, right? And
so I think part of the exercise would be to really take a look at breaking down those numbers. And what
are the numbers that are attributable to the RTD portion of the work? And then what are the costs that are
attributable to the intercity portions, out to Fort Collins? So that is part of the question. That work has not
been done at this point in time. Correct, Del?
DEBRA JOHNSON: And there's obviously lots of more work to be done. And right now, you're looking at-I always like to say this-- but you're looking at projections of not-yet-extant revenues. So it's really kind of
hard to say which part is which. But we'll be working on trying to refine for that, going forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. You mentioned the CTE with Craig, and then at the very end, CTIO. And I
didn't see a possible revenue stream from CTIO, which is an enterprise that is based on user fees. Is
there any potential to tap into the CTIO? Or is the CTE supplanting that from the CDOT enterprise
perspective?
DIANE BARRETT: I don't know the answer to that question. But we have the Executive Director of CTO
with us this evening, if she'd like to come up and address that. No pressure.
[LAUGHTER]
PIPER DARLINGTON: Hi, I'm Piper Darlington. I'm the Director of-- most of you might know us as the
High Performance Transportation Enterprise. We're now doing business as the Colorado Transportation
Investment Office. And maybe it wasn't clear in the presentation, but we are actually the recipient of the
Congestion Impact Fee that is being levied on rental cars. So when you saw that slide that Tom put up,
that showed the [? $184 ?] projections, it is a new fee that has been directed to CTIO. So that's, within our
powers, to levy user fees, more traditionally tolls. But we are now receiving a new congestion impact fee
that's specifically targeted towards rail and transit, so not supplanting the additional authorities to the
existing enterprise.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Piper. And I'm very familiar with it.
PIPER DARLINGTON: I'm aware. You could probably teach me a thing or two.

PEGGY CATLIN: HTPE was the precursor to CTIO, but the original CTE was the precursor to the CTIO,
so it's coming full circle. Anyway, I just wanted to make sure that there was a stake in the game. And
thank you for explaining that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you tried to skip me. And that's because you knew
I was going to talk about construction at 8 o'clock. And there's nothing more boring than talking about
construction at 8 o'clock than talking about construction at 8 o'clock. I'm going to submit a few questions
in writing because I'm sure they're probably still open. But there's a few things that maybe I can just rattle
off, that if there is an answer right now-- and if not, it would be really good to have that.
The escalation-- I know you've got a cost of living in there at 3%. If I was looking at construction inflation,
particularly buying steel and concrete over the next five years, that's probably a little light. And so I think
having a tariff-recognized escalation there would be really appropriate.
I get nervous about contingency reductions. There's nothing more dangerous and more expensive than a
cheap construction project. So I think the contingency for a rail project, particularly going through
predominantly residential communities, seems to be a little bit low.
The final thing is-- or two things. Sorry, you don't get off that easy. Is the backstop for overage-- who
owns the backstop? So if we go over budget, is it a cash call that is prorated to everybody's upfront
contribution? I don't think so because some of them are limited. So who is on the hook for an overage on
the construction projects? I hope we're not going to build 3/4 of it and run out. I don't think so.
And then the final piece is probably the one least well known. And that is, are we sure that this is the final
request from BNSF for track improvements for the entire course of the line? I think it'd be great. I mean,
we're getting out of this with a really good deal. I'm a little nervous about that, going forward. And Ms.
Barrett, I know you don't know most of these tonight. And you've-- I compliment you. You've got the A
team. I mean, there was no one I would trust more than Tom Rousakis to sort this out. But those are the
macro challenges. And then I'll save everyone else the construction questions.
[? JULIEN BOUQUET: ?] I love construction questions, by the way.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: You and I-- we'll probably be done around 11 o'clock, here. So if you want to stay
around-[? JULIEN BOUQUET: ?] We'll be [INAUDIBLE].
DIANE BARRETT: I wanted to-- if I may just say a quick thing, with respect to the inflation of the flat cost,
we also presumed full NEPA and all of the federal stuff, which we would hope that any effect would
maybe not be necessary. And so it was not just inflation, but it's the time that it takes to get there. And if
it's shorter, then it's less. So it's kind of a balancing act there.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I love that. I'm a little nervous about who's going to be running the Council on
Environmental Quality, and how quick your NEPA turn's going to be. But I do like the optimism.
DEL WALKER: So I do want to talk about the contingency reductions. And know that there's no
contingency reductions in the low-cost option that was presented. We maintained the typical historic
percentages of contingency hold for individual line items, and then have the unallocated contingency on

top of that, to ensure that we're able to manage those types of risks. With this level of engineering effort, I
didn't feel like it was prudent, nor did members of my team that looked at this, to make any significant
reductions in those contingencies.
There is the contingency approach on the right-hand side of the screen, that has not been modeled and is
not being specifically recommended, that's takes a different tact on the contingency. And I'm with you. At
this stage of the game, we really shouldn't be looking at that.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Walker.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director O'Keefe. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank you for the update. I think those are all good
questions. I think-- I've got a couple of questions. But I also wanted to just add a little bit in terms of some
of the history. But I think mostly by virtue of being Chair when this started, which was over a year ago-I've been involved in some of the meetings, not all of them. I know our new Chair is involved in some of
them now, as well.
And I think, as Patrick said, we're working with an A team now, that's doing a great job at looking at this
joint service. And we got the Northwest Rail Report from Patrick Stanley, on our team, that did, I think, an
excellent job. But it was $650 million cost for 1,100 riders per day. And I think for many of us, that made it
a very difficult way to move forward. And at the same time, I think Front Range Passenger Rail is not
ready to move forward fully. So I think this Joint Service approach is a really good answer.
And I'm not saying that we're ready. Am I certain that this Joint Service is the answer? No. But I think
we've made good progress in terms of answering the concerns of Westminster and Louisville and
Broomfield, having a station in there, in each of those cities, because that was a big issue when we were
talking intercity rail. And as I've said all along-- and Eric said it as well. And I know that you've heard it
from others here, Debra, that the next step is to see the full financial plan and operations plan and
governance plan. I think the financial approach that we got from EY tonight was very helpful.
But I guess I encourage us to keep staying the course. I think you asked some very good questions. I
may have some more that I'll send along, as well. But we also need the updates on ridership and some of
those things. But I think we're on the road, a path, that hopefully, we can support. We've got to see what it
will cost RTD and what we get. So thank you on all that.
Two quick questions. You said that you're hoping that the full-blown NEPA would not be necessary. Is
that because of the Northwest Rail report? Or why are you thinking that wouldn't be necessary? Or did I
misunderstand you, Diane? That you assumed that it was-DIANE BARRETT: No, I was just thinking-- we were thinking that there may be ways to do less than the
full NEPA. I've heard people talking about a [? CATX, ?] for instance, depending on what the project is
and how it goes. I was just thinking of maybe short cutting some of the federal regulatory stuff, some of
which might change in the near future, possibly. So that was all I had in mind.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. And in terms of EY's analysis, the $885 million went to $1.1 billion
with inflation. Did you also calculate in the cost of debt service?
TOM ROUSAKIS: Yes, so the cost of debt service is--

LYNN GUISSINGER: Is calculated in there.
TOM ROUSAKIS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I would concur with Director Guissinger's comments. Maybe
I'll be more blunt because I tend to be more blunt.
[LAUGHS]
So we did this Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study that took two years and cost $8 million. And
in the end, it tells us, it might not be feasible right now, especially when you're talking about $650 million.
1,100 passengers a day. $50 per-passenger subsidies. That's hard to sell to the public. I also think, as it
stands now, Front Range Passenger Rail standing alone isn't feasible, either. I don't think that legislation
to create a taxing district is going to fly when people are going to say, we've been paying a tax for a train
for years, and we don't have it. Why should we pay another tax for a train that we're not going to get?
So the thing that I like about this, this team approach, is that you bring in a number of different players
and a number of different funding sources to make this thing happen. Is it perfect from an RTD vision,
what Northwest Rail was supposed to be? No, it's not. But the alternative is no train. So I think it's really
important to continue these discussions.
I'm a big fan of the train. In fact, in January of 2022, some reporter from CPR wrote an article, and the
headline-[LAUGHTER]
--the headline was, "RTD Board Elects a Boulder Train Champion to be its New Leader as it Re-imagines
a Post-Pandemic Future."
[LAUGHTER]
So when I say things like, I don't believe Northwest Rail is feasible on its own, it's not because I don't
want that train. I do. It's really, strictly looking at the financial analysis that was done. But this joint rail
service idea, I think, is the way you get the train. Otherwise, you don't get the train. But the other train that
we have to get, along with this, is the completion of the N line. So we're not going to let that one go either.
AUDIENCE: And the L line.
AUDIENCE: L line.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, we'll see about those. So anyway, I'm also looking forward to your information on
boardings and subsidies per rider and so forth. And I'm sure when your Service Development Plan is fully
fleshed out, we'll see that. I also have some concerns about, I believe, some financial assumptions that
are being made with regard to RTD's financial standing, and whether our reserves are allocated or not
allocated. I think that could be a problem. You know, we ride the roller coaster of sales tax revenue. So
forecasts that we have, it's like forecasting the stock market. It's not an easy thing to do.

So I would also be concerned about, what happens if? What happens if we're committed to putting in x
amount of dollars, and for whatever reason, the economy tanks, and we don't have those dollars? Is the
State going to backfill the rest and bail us out? Because I would never want to see us having to cut other
services to try to fund this one. So anyway, those are my comments. And I appreciate the presentation.
You've done a great job both times, in the recent past. So thanks a lot.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I also wanted to Thank Director O'Keefe for raising some
very important questions, and hopefully we'll get a chance to get some information. Here's a question that
I have a feeling you're-- I think I know what you're going to give me the answer for. You're saying that the
project is $885 million. But you did not divide it into Northwest Rail and from Longmont up to Fort Collins.
Do you have any idea-- and I also know we would be sharing costs for Burlington Northern costs,
maintenance facility, train sets, operating, who's going to be actually operating those trains. Do you have
any information as to how you might split those costs?
DEL WALKER: I did not prepare any splits of the cost information. We could begin to do that, but have
not prepared that up to this point.
KAREN BENKER: OK, thank you. I think that would be helpful. And I know it's going to take a lot more
work and calculations than where we are. A couple of other things though, that I wanted to actually talk to
our Board about. Well, first of all, I think you probably all know I've been working on this issue for a long
time. And Director Catlin can verify that since we had a number of conversations at a farmers market over
the years.
But I guess, I see so much opportunity here, one, because there are so many players, so many options.
And I'm just looking at some of the revenue sources that we have, that we could tap into or at least
investigate. And they include the RTD reserves, which I know is something that we're all going to have to
have a deep conversation over. We've got almost $100 million in CRISI grants, that's already, hopefully-knock on wood-- that the feds are going to come through with the $66 million that they've pledged.
Then we've got revenue from Senate Bill 184, Senate Bill 230. I understand we still have $300 million left
in bonding capacity under the old FasTracks. Here's our CFO in the back, here. And then, of course,
there's also the possibility of certificates of participation. And one of the other things that I'd at least like to
add to that is, I really do think it would be reasonable to ask some of our local governments, where there
are station stops, to pledge some money to help build the stations so it's not just the two or three entities
that are going to be involved here.
So here's another opportunity, the way I see it. With our Chair, Director Guzman, he chairs our Finance
Committee. And the next meeting that we're going to be having is, we're going to be talking about a report
that we have to do, and provide to the Governor and to the State Legislature and also Front Range
Passenger Rail. That is due July 1. And the name of that report is Finishing FasTracks. And so I'd like to
at least have a discussion, here, not tonight, but somewhere down the road, about, with all these different
revenue sources that we have out here, can we build that last station on the N Line. Can we finish the last
mile? Can we go to Lucent Boulevard?
I'd at least like to take a look at all the different revenue sources, and maybe add some other things into
the mix since we have to prepare this report anyway. And so I'd like to at least have the Board consider

some of these things. I don't know what the answer is, but all I'm asking is that you give it some thought
and maybe see this as an opportunity if all these revenue sources pan out.
So thank you very much. I appreciate all the work that's been done. It's very exciting. And I'm looking
forward to-- hopefully we'll be able to come to some sort of agreement in the next couple of months or late
summer or sometime this year. We'll see how things go. But I want to thank you all for your work. Lots of
good work has been involved here. And I'm hoping our Board will consider, maybe some other things,
and we could have a discussion on future projects. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer Benker. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I have just a couple questions. Do we have costs for five round trips?
DEL WALKER: We did not prepare costs for five round trips.
IAN HARWICK: Do we have-- just nothing? We don't have-- not even a ballpark?
DEL WALKER: I didn't even-- I didn't even have my team look at that.
IAN HARWICK: OK, and then just a scheduling question. When we did this, it was three going. It was
three leaving Denver in the morning, and then three coming back in the afternoon. Is this following that
same concept? Or is this one round trip in the morning, one round trip at noon, one round trip at 5 o'clock
in the evening? I know we probably haven't gotten into that, but I'm just curious. This is three round trips,
so just were we thinking-DEL WALKER: I think it's more the latter, that you talked about, was the assumption that would be done
there.
IAN HARWICK: OK. OK. That's it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Harwick. Director Guzman, I have next.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. One of the assumptions that you listed very boldly in your
slides was that Burlington Northern Santa Fe hasn't made any commitments to this yet. So when do we
find out about that? Because I think that will affect a lot of this.
And bigger question for them, than this room can handle-- because I do believe this belongs under the
dome-- is when the State's going to put some pressure on them to help us out here because we can't do
anything without having access to that particular stretch of track. And that may not be something for you
to answer, but it's in there, right? Terms have not been negotiated fully with BNSF. That's a bold
statement to put on this, and bring it to any of the bodies that are going to be making decisions, here. So
I'd like to get some answers to that.
With the CTIO question and the Senate bills that you presented, forgive my balloon popping here, but
some of it sounds like the State's being Wimpy from Popeye. I'll gladly pay you on Tuesday for a
hamburger today. I don't know where the money's at. I don't see the money. Has it been deposited? Have
you received that money? Because there was legal action that was taken by the car rental agencies
almost immediately upon passage of that bill. And I don't know the results of that because I don't have
time to follow that and do my job as a Director here. So I do have some serious concerns about whether

those revenue streams are real or best effort, and we'll actually see an outcome of it, which is something,
as we need to look at our funding resources, need to consider.
And there is always the big-- we'll call it the blue elephant because we like blue animals in Colorado-which is TABOR. And we are restricted. So revenue funding sources that we have to look at, figure out,
and maneuver through and with our state legislature, there are some restrictions on doing that. And they
all require approvals. To Director Buzek's point earlier, how are taxpayers going to approve something
that they've been promised, and still hasn't come to fruition? Those are the ideas running through my
head. But maybe we can just start with the first one, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, if there's a response
there about where we're at in talking with them. And the other two are maybe more commentary. Thank
you.
DIANE BARRETT: With respect to the Burlington Northern, various parts of all of us are meeting with
them regularly, once a week, very regularly. And they are very much involved in the planning. We do not
have-- we have not had negotiations with them yet for this. It is too early, really. Soon, working toward it,
developing relationships to help with that, et cetera. But as of yet, we have not negotiated with that. We
have not completed any kind of negotiations with them.
CRAIG SECREST: I'll try [INAUDIBLE]. I can speak to CTE funding. So first of all, about the lawsuits, that
was on the retail delivery fee, not the-[AUDIO OUT]

I'll let you-- there we go. Sorry about that. Anyhow, the lawsuits that are challenging it were not for the oil
and gas. And to the best of my knowledge, they haven't been yet. In terms of when the money actually
starts flowing, the fee will start being imposed, as of oil and gas produced, July 1, the beginning of fiscal
year '26. It takes about five months for the money to actually be collected, and then it'll start being [?
flowing. ?] So we expect to start seeing resources for SB 230 somewhere in December this year or
January 2026.
Because of prop 117, the amount that can be collected for the Oil and Gas Fund in FY '26 is going to be
reduced. It's probably about-- I think we're thinking somewhere around $55 million. Then in FY '27, we're
out beyond the caps because of prop 117. And the amount will go up to about $120. Of that, the amount
available for the Passenger Rail portion of SB 230 is about 20% So it's about $10 or $12 million in the first
year, and then goes up to somewhere, $20, $25 million. It's based on the price of oil and gas. It sets
thresholds for what the actual fee can be at. So again, we have to estimate and predict because we don't
know exactly where oil and gas is going to be or how volatile it's going to be.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just one quick follow up. The reason that I asked this question-- and I would love to
hear from you as well, Piper. Thank you-- is because our fiscal policy does not allow us to plan for funds
that don't exist. And so you're talking about 2026. We have to plan a budget for 2026. And we're doing
this work with you all, with the other joint members. And the numbers question is going to stay at the
forefront of my mind, but we're restricted in what we can do in terms of budgeting and commitments until
we know actual numbers. And so that's the impetus from my point of view, especially chairing the Finance

and Planning Committee. We need real information to be able to make real decisions so we can budget
appropriately and apportion correctly.
So it's not to be snarky or rude. It's not devaluing anything that's going on. But my tepid excitement about
funding sources comes from that. I would love to wave around a banner saying, we've got it, we've got it.
But we don't got it yet until it's in the bank. And that's the only way we can make a real decision. So just to
be clear, I'm also in favor of getting this done, even though I've been accused by people of not wanting
the trains. That's actually incorrect, factually. And I voted for them, as well. So thank you.
PIPER DARLINGTON: Yeah, and just to speak specifically on the Congestion Impact Fee, which is
directed to CTIO and separate from the Oil and Gas fee, we did start collecting that fee. So yes, there is
litigation on that fee, currently, that did not-- there was not a permanent injunction on the fee. So we are
collecting it currently, even though it's being litigated by the Attorney General's Office.
So we started collections on January 1. So the pump is still getting primed. Division of Revenue,
Department of Revenue is collecting that on our behalf, and then transmitting it to CDOT, CTIO, for this
purpose. So to your point, it is new. And I, this morning, had a meeting with our Revenue Analyst to make
sure that, where are we tracking, in general? Because CDOT does collect other fees on rental cars. And
those are tracking pretty close to their projections. So I'll be doing the same thing because you're right, we
are just starting to get these dollars in the door. So similar to other CDOT processes, we are allowed to
plan within an anticipated amount of revenue for the fiscal year, which this current year is just shy of $28
million. So I want to make sure we're going to get there, too, by the end of this year.
As Diane mentioned, this is forecasted to be, on average, roughly $100 million a year for the next 30
million years. So totally appreciate the point. And it is a new fee. But if we look at other rental car fees that
CDOT collects, we are tracking pretty close to those forecasts. So I'll be looking at this one, too.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I see Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So as I think I said in the last meeting, I'm a massive rail fan.
I want to see this project get done as much as anybody. I want to say yes to the dress, so to speak. But I
also found myself nodding in complete agreement with what Director Buzek was saying, which is, we
have to ask ourselves whether or not the process we're undergoing makes financial sense at the end of
the day because we have a ton of other stakeholders out there who rely on all the other services we run.
One of the things that I didn't understand about this project until last week is the manner in which it is
disconnected from Front Range Passenger Rail, in the sense that if we never go to the ballot for Front
Range Passenger Rail, if that just doesn't happen, this moves forward with us and all the money that we
have. And I don't know if that's necessarily clear to everybody in the same way, that this starter service
could exist whether or not Front Range Passenger Rail happens.
I want to get a sense from your end, how do you see the connection at this point? And since we've all
talked about Front Range Passenger Rail going to the ballot in 2026, functionally, why shouldn't we just
wait to see if the voters want Passenger Rail before we decide if we're going to do this? Because if they
say no, shouldn't we take that as an indication that maybe this is not a good use of money?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Barrett.
DIANE BARRETT: Well, I could argue either way. I think Front Range Passenger Rail going to the ballot
would be fabulous. I think that we can look at what an existing train service, as inexpensive and as short

as it is, once it's started and once there's actually action and people know that Colorado can do rail and
can move forward with Intercity Passenger Rail, I just think it would be a boost for Front Range
Passenger Rail.
But certainly, you have a very good point. And it's a nice thing to know, that political will is up to you. And I
can't say anymore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I just have one thing to piggyback on that. Let's say we do green light this later
this year, which, when I asked last time, we didn't have an exact date of when we would make that call,
but sometime in the next year or so. We wouldn't probably even start construction until, I would think, late
2026, early 2027. It takes a while to do all of these things.
So isn't it reasonable to think that-- you mentioned the voters would see that we're able to get these
things done. It sounds like the voters wouldn't be able to see much of anything getting done by the time
that Front Range Passenger Rail got on the ballot. And so I just want to get a feel for again, why are we
doing this now, not next year? And I understand the cost of capital. That makes total sense to me. It's
going to be, maybe a little more expensive if we wait a little bit. But there are downsides, as well, right?
DEL WALKER: So I would love to say I could foretell exactly when construction would start, but I do
believe there are opportunities for early construction activity that could occur. We talked about some of
the NEPA processes that could be expedited. And that could facilitate earlier construction than some of
the dates that you indicated there. A lot of this work needs to be on the existing lines that is out there.
Much of that may not require any environmental clearance to pursue.
There could be physical progress that you could show voters for the future Front Range Passenger Rail,
that we have made progress very quickly, here. I'm not saying that everything could be done by '26, but I
certainly believe that there are actions that could be taken, that expedite construction, that may not
necessarily have to go through a full-blown NEPA effort.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Promise, this is my last thing. I just want to say, I really am not trying to be a pain in
the "tuchus," as my mother would say-- because I can't say the other thing. But we're here today because
the Board, back in 2000 and 2002 and 2004, wasn't that-- some people even would say they were
dishonest in the projections that they put forward and the promises that were made. They didn't ask the
hard questions. And so they ended up with a project they couldn't pay for. And they ended up with some
really bad things that were put together.
My biggest concern is that I come out of this in eight years, and I look back, and I say, I made the
responsible decision, not the reckless decision. I did not go and spend money on something that, wow,
we can build the big thing we can build the monorail, and then look back later and be like, and RTD's
budget was just gone as a result of that. And now we're on the hook for a massive capital project we can't
afford. So please help us find a way to make this pencil. I really want to do it. But we got to nail down all
the details, at least for me to be able to say yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to add, as it relates to the
conversation, recognizing that there has been conversations with BNSF, not ones that RTD has had
independently by any stretch of the imagination, but recognizing that we had to confer with BNSF, as we
did the Northwest Rail Feasibility Study, to ascertain whether or not we would actually have a project.
And with that as the backdrop, going forward, as it relates to Front Range Passenger Rail in this joint
effort, BNSF has made clear that they need to know who's on first, meaning that they can't have some
disparate approach relative to RTD, relative to Front Range Passenger Rail or this joint service, who are
they going to engage with? So I wanted to add that to the conversation because I think that is a very
germane point for this body to understand, relative to what could happen and what may not happen, if in
fact, there's not one person on first. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Bill, you were talking about, there are some areas of NEPA that we might
be able to streamline. And I believe that because there's been plenty of work done. And traditionally,
when you do an environmental impact statement, you have to look at a myriad of alternatives. And we
have narrowed it down to an alternative or a couple of different alternatives.
So I believe you on that. And I just, having done a number of NEPA studies, I think that there could be
some streamlining. I guess what I would be interested in seeing was that anything that we invested or
committed to invest would not be a throw away, that it would have utility for other purposes. And I guess I
would like to see that in your analyses, going forward. And I don't want you to answer that tonight
because that's additional work. But I think to give some reassurance that we wouldn't have anything that
would be a throw away, that it would be used for future investments, would be really helpful. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. So I just wanted to make a comment about the FISA, which I believe
an esteemed journalist quoted a former, very esteemed Chair as calling our "sacred cow." And I think
some of us could get behind a sizable contribution from the FISA, say for, like, PTC or some capital costs
[? early. ?] But the FISA was not created for O&M. And we don't tap into that, generally, right? And so I
feel like we keep talking about the FISA like it's going to be funded in perpetuity, and then we will use
those funds in a very different way, for which they were created for, does make me a bit nervous.
And so I think I just want to caution that that would require a really radical paradigm shift at RTD, and with
a Board-- And FISA has a very long history. And that's not-- But I see, not just in this, but in previous
projections and also the white paper from last year, this idea that we would tap into FISA, that the RTD
funds, for O&M, for one project. And that is, again, just a sharp deviation from what we use it for. And
that's not in our current fiscal policy. So that would require-- that might be it's just it's own heavy lift with
the Board. So I just wanted to put that out there. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any other Directors at this time to make comments or questions? Well, I
would encourage our Directors who might have additional questions to get those to the Board Office, and
then we can relate this back to Ms. Barrett. I do want to thank you all again for your presentation. Thank
you very much for your patience. I know we're at a late evening. And we greatly appreciate your guys's
time, so thank you.
DIANE BARRETT: Thank you for having us.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. All right, moving forward, folks, we're going to start doing our committee
reports. Committee Chair Buzek, anything to report from Audit?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, and I have a slide deck for the Board.
[LAUGHTER]

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. So the Audit Committee met on February 13, 2025 at 2:00 PM.
Director Catlin was kind enough to nominate me as the Chair. And I was elected Chair of the Audit
Committee, Jim Brendel, Vice Chair. We had a report from Plante Moran, our external financial auditing
firm, regarding audit plan and pre-audit communications. We also had discussions from RubinBrown, our
internal audit plan and audit plan update. We had one action item that passed unanimously, out of the
Audit Committee. And it is on the Consent Agenda. That is the External Auditor Summary Scope of Work.
So hopefully, that gets through the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
And I just want to say, just as a way of background, the Audit Committee is not one of the sexy
committees. It's kind of-[CHATTER, LAUGHTER]
It's not like the Audit Committee. It's like, really? The Audit Committee? So back in 2022, my signature is
on the Audit Committee charter. So I was the one who implemented it. But it came up on the back of a lot
of people's work, primarily Director Catlin, who, from the minute I got on this Board, was screaming about
audits because back then, in 2019, audit? What's that?
We got into a little bit of trouble with the State, as a result. But boy, I tell you, we've come a long way with
regard to the Audit work that RTD is doing now. So very pleased to do that. Next meeting, March 13, 2:00
PM. Be there or be square. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Buzek. Finance and Planning Committee
Report, Committee Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Finance and Planning met February 11. We approved our
Committee work plan to move forward to the Board, with the others. We discussed our Certificates of
Participation Series 2015A-- that's on consent tonight-- and the FTA Grant Authorization from our Dear
Colleague Letter, from the US Department of Transportation, FTA request, that we received. Our next
meeting will be March 11 at 5:30 PM. And we have pretty good group of discussion topics, not the least of
which is our fiscal policy review.
The Finance FasTracks report that was referred to earlier by Vice Chair Benker, on the Finance and
Planning Committee, will also be discussed. And we will get a rundown-- I believe, the 2024 Budget to
Actuals Review will be presented that night, a couple of other things that are going to be going over for
educational purposes and discussion purposes. So tune in.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Committee Chair Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. Operation Safety and Security met on February 6 in a special
meeting to discuss and finalize elements of our Committee work plan. We met again for a regular meeting
on February 12, where said work plan was passed unanimously, as well as the Light Rail Camera
Contract Appropriation to retrofit 157 LRVs. So that is on the Consent Agenda tonight.
We also passed, out of Committee the following, although not unanimously, a summary scope of
services, authorization for contracted security services, and funding access on demand for the current
year, 2025, up to $15.8 million and some change. Any monies, if they're not used, would just go back into
the Unrestricted General Fund. Thank you, Sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha. Committee Chair Guzman, back to
you for performance.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Performance Committee met February 3. That was, it seems
like, forever ago, and yet, it's so close. We had the discussion of our Committee work plan. We did delay
it because we were preoccupied with the first month's work. So we will have another conversation about
that Monday, coming. The strategic plan documents were presented by General Manager-CEO Debra
Johnson, just a discussion about what that is and where we're going with it. And we had a conversation
about what Board briefing documents should look like. If you have not submitted your comments or
questions to the Board Office on that, please make sure you do so.
I have not received anything on the record, Jack, so you can hear that. But if you have, great. If you have
not, reminders to Directors to do so. No actions were taken. It was only discussion at that meeting. Our
next meeting is March 3 at 8:00 AM. Note the time change, 8 o'clock AM. We need to allow ourselves
some extra time because this will be the first of our quarterly one on ones with Debra. So we will adjourn
into executive session in that meeting.
But there are some other issues that we need to deal with first. And I encourage the attendance of all of
the Directors, if possible, to be in that meeting. I would anticipate at least the last hour of that meeting,
from 9:00 to 10:00, to be the important part of our executive ability to have a one on one with our General
Manager-CEO. The first part of the meeting will be the business of the Committee. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, committee chairs. And thank you for being brief but precise.
Moving forward, the Board and Committee minutes were-- excuse me. approval of Board meeting
minutes and Committee reports-- the Board and Committee minutes were included in the Board packet.
Are there any corrections from Directors for the minutes to be approved this evening? Yes, Director
Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, wow. I wish you would have called on Director Chandler, because I got to find
where I wrote that. Packet page-- 57.
[? DIANE BENNETT: ?] 57, yep.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, at the bottom, it says that the motion was defeated, but it passed. So that was
a typo. Thanks.
[? DIANE BENNETT: ?] I already connected with the Board Office. And they corrected them.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh.

[? DIANE BENNETT: ?] So-JULIEN BOUQUET: Board Office, we're good?
[? DIANE BENNETT: ?] Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for pointing that out. Anyone else? Excellent. Unless there is
objection to considering the minutes of all that at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve
the minutes for the following meetings? January 28, Special Board meeting, January 28, Board meeting,
February 3, Performance Committee, February 6, Operations, Safety and Security Committee, February
11, Finance and Planning Committee, February 12, Operations, Safety and Security Committee, February
13, Audit Committee, February 20, Executive Committee. All of these meetings took place in 2025.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I heard Guzman as the mover.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Ruscha.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ruscha is the second. Is there any discussion? Moving on. We'll now call for a vote.
Are there any no votes? Motion passes 15 to 0. Sorry if I'm going a little too quick for anyone, but stop
me.
[? MICHAEL GUZMAN: ?] [INAUDIBLE].
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So I believe we are moving on to the Chair's report. I did have several
items for you guys tonight. But I will condense it for us, in sake of time. So good. So I wanted to start off
with tonight's report, with just a giant thank you to our operators and our front line workers.
I greatly appreciate the comments from our employees that we heard tonight. It was real to hear from
these stories, from our employees. And it keeps us, as a Board, informed. So I just wanted to, as a Board,
just give round of applause for our employees, our front line workers, our operators, those who keep this
system moving. So I'm going to just give round of applause for that.
[APPLAUSE]

The big things I wanted to address in today's report-- as you all saw, from our friends, Jonathan and
Patrick, you guys should have seen a report from our Board retreat that happened earlier this month.
Three main goals has been established as a Board for us, for this year, the first one being, establishing
an efficient process for the Board of Directors to create short-term goals for the GM/CEO prior to
finalization of the annual budget. Thank you, Directors O'Keefe and Directors Larsen, for helping with this.
I've been told that you guys have already been working with staff. So I just wanted to appreciate both of
you for that.
The second goal, RTD Directors will expand engagement with public stakeholders to grow the number of
communication channels between multiple communities in the Agency. Again, this goal, I think, as you'll
see from our staff, we are going to be able to track how often we're going to be meeting with our
stakeholders. Who are we meeting? That's going to allow us to know what gaps we need to reach. Do we

need to be reaching with our Chambers of Commerce more? Do we need to be reaching with our
nonprofits more? Again, we hear. We hear from the public. We want to make those connections. And I
believe this Board is ambitious enough to continue growing that public engagement.
Finally, ensure a structural system is in place for Directors to create an active policy agenda that
encourages more Director-initiated items throughout this year. That is our policy form. And I wanted to
thank all of you for utilizing it because you can see the work and say that you want, for this Board and for
your standing committees go forward based on you guys filling out that policy form. And this is a living
form. I do want to emphasize that.
Finally, again, I'm reducing this. In tonight's report, I just want to put a note of caution for everyone. I
believe this country's public sector is under attack. We've been overreaching. We have seen overreaching
of cuts at the federal level. And I believe future cuts will impact this agency. It is our responsibility as a
Board to protect our public transit, here in Colorado. When we are making decisions as a Board, we need
to always think of those who are most dependent on our system.
I want you to remember the students who are able to ride for free on the 20. I want you to remember the
single mom who can't afford a car, but relies on the E to get to her job every day. I want you to remember
the dad who is transit dependent because of a disability, and counts on a lift from Access-a-Ride. These
are the folks who are relying on our system. These are the folks who we're ultimately fighting for. We
need to be prepared for the worst while fighting for the best.
Thank you all for your continued support. I'm optimistic we'll make it through we'll make it through times of
turmoil, as long as we remember those of the folks who got us to the seats where we're at. So thank you
all. That is my Chair's report for this month. Ms. Johnson, I hand it over to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And good evening, once again, Board
members, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This evening, I will share a few highlights that are
structured around our strategic plan and our four strategic priorities. Related to the strategic priority of
community value, on Monday, February 3, I, along with you, Chair Bouquet, and Carl Green, Jr., who
serves as the Director of Civil Rights, participated as speakers in an event dedicated to transit Equity
Day, which was February 4.
The event was held at the I Have a Dream statue at City Park. It honored national civic leaders who
strove for the advancement of Civil Rights and equality for all. In addition to RTD's participation, there are
many different individuals, representing the NAACP, the Chief Vision Officer of Colorado Council for
Urban Development, as well as the Executive Director of National Organizations for Youth Safety. Both
gave remarks.
On Wednesday, February 12, I participated in the Colorado Transportation Summit, hosted by Microsoft,
Accenture, and Esri, which was a day-long event bringing together traff-- excuse me-- transportation
practitioners, thought leaders, elected officials, and academia. I had the pleasure to engage in a panel
discussion centered on expanding and optimizing Regional Transportation in Colorado. The panelists
engaged in a wide-ranging discussion that included topics such as land use, affordability, sustainability,
while fostering a more connected and resilient community.
This discussion was moderated by David Fisher from the University of Denver's Transportation Institute.
And the other panelists included Will Toor from the Colorado Energy Office, Doug Rex, who serves as the

Executive Director of the Denver Regional Council of Governments, which is the Metropolitan Planning
organization, as well as Tom Coleman, who serves as the Vice Present of Innovation for WSP.

Related to customer excellence and furtherance of RTD's 2024-2025 strategic initiatives of a welcoming
transit environment, on January 28, RTD announced that the Agency's Police Department launched an
internal Detective Bureau, which allows the agency to pursue investigations for criminal activities that
occur on RTD property, as well as across jurisdictions. RTD PD Commander Brian Cousineau serves as
the Bureau's lead. And two Transit Police officers were promoted internally, Fabian Rodriguez and Brian
Beary to add to the rank of Detective and Lieutenant, and Detective, respectively. A third detective, Craig
Tangeman, formerly of the Arapahoe County Sheriff's Office, joined RTD on January 21.
As some of Directors heard during the training session pertaining to security in RTD-PD activities, the
Bureau will enable RTD to directly perform investigations on thefts and any other criminal activity that may
occur on his property, anything that affects the ability of customers to utilize the system safely. The
Bureau will help RTD pursue prosecuting personal crimes involving any threat or use of force, and
includes felony-level narcotics violations across the agency, system, or property.
Moving forward, as it relates to the same strategic initiative, talking about the customer experience and
community values, the Customer and Community Outreach process for the May 2025 service change
effort is currently underway. Staff is gathering feedback on the proposed changes through Thursday,
March 6 via online surveys, virtual meetings, as well as the Ask a Service planner session, which is
something we have introduced as of recently, using an online form and through community events. RTD
has already received more than a thousand individual responses from customers and stakeholders when
we launched this earlier in the year, for the May service change. And a dashboard describing the changes
is available on the Agency's website.
A descriptor indicating the type of change proposed for each line and route is included for each service.
So for example, the listing for Route 44 bus indicates that the adjustments include both scheduled timing
and a service increase. The dashboard also includes those routes that include adjustments contemplated
in the System Optimization Plan, which is RTD's former-branded Comprehensive Operations Analysis,
such as the Free Metro Ride, The Route 153, Route NB1 and NB2, would service Boulder, Nederland,
and Eldora Ski Resort.
Another element I want to touch upon, to better serve customers, RTD has updated its real-life tracking-vehicle-tracking feature on the Next Ride application. The feature formerly known as Commute in the
web-based trip-planning application, is now called a live tracker. So you don't need a decoder ring to
ascertain what that actually means. That update went live on February 6. And as I said, it better explains
the functionality, which allows customers to locate buses and trains in real time, on a map.
And a system project is also underway to improve the real-time tracking of light rail vehicles across the
network. The back-end update is scheduled to launch in quarter two of 2025, and will ensure that
scheduled information on digital signage and rail station is more accurate for customers, in alignment with
the Agency's 2024-2025 Strategic Initiative of Customer and Community Connections.
Related to employee ownership, just want to acknowledge the efforts that have been made over the
course of-- gosh, 5 plus years. On Monday, February 3, the Colorado Supreme Court issued an order
denying a petition for certiorari by Denver Transit Partners, bringing-- my Latin isn't good-- bringing RTD's

years-- especially at this time of night-- years-long litigation with the Commuter Rail Concessionaire to a
close. As the Board is aware, DPT sued RTD in 2018, claiming approximately $111 million in damages
tied to crossing-gate issues.
A four-week bench trial began in September of 2020. And in February 2023, the District Court issued an
order in judgment finding in RTD's favor on those claims. DPT appealed the judgment of the Colorado
Court of Appeals. In May 2024, the panel ruled in RTD's favor. That means Colorado Supreme Court will
now will not review DTP's appeal, and the District Court's original judgment, in RTD's favor, will stand.
I want to extend my sincere thanks and commendations to RTD's legal eagles, one of them sitting next to
me, to the left, as well as outside counsel, Dorsey and Whitney, for their tireless work on this matter. And I
also extend my appreciation to Denver Transit Partners for their continued partnership and commitment
to our transit service delivery in the Denver Metro region.
Also, I would like to extend my thanks and gratitude to the intrepid RTD employees who battled the
elements this past week, to continue to deliver transit services amidst the winter weather event that
dropped as much as 18 inches of snow in certain parts of RTD service area. Individuals showed up and
showed out, and continue to do so during the course of the week and beyond.
And then lastly, just yesterday, Monday, February 24, I was pleased to announce the appointment of
Angel Pena as the agency's inaugural Deputy Chief Executive Officer. I look forward to having Angel at
the next Board meeting, as he starts just a few days before our next Board meeting, where he will have
an opportunity to introduce himself. And with that, Mr. Chair, I yield the floor. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, CEO-GM Johnson. Any questions or comments? Yes,
Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Since we won this court judgment for $110 million, $111, does that mean that Denver
Transit is going to owe us that money? Where does that go?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder.
KAREN BENKER: Or we don't have to pay them?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you for the question, Director Benker. The funds were already paid out,
so the costs were already expended by DTP. Those were costs that they incurred with flaggers, at the
various rail crossings. So we will just not owe them any kind of reimbursement.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Does that also mean that somebody else is going to pay those costs for
attorney fees, et cetera? Or is that just something that we absorb?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: There won't be any further litigation about costs or fees. That's already been
resolved at the district court level.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Excellent.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Any further questions? Comments? Seeing none, we're going to move on to our
Unanimous Consent. There are four items on the Unanimous Consent Agenda listed under Section 15,
Actions A through D. Those items are [? four ?] certificates of participation Series 2015A, Refinancing,
authorizing resolution for FTA funding, light-rail vehicle cameras retrofit, external auditor summary, scope
of work approval, and contracting authorization.
If anyone has a change to, discussion on, or questions about the item, please feel free to advise the Chair
at this time, and I'll be happy to pull it from unanimous consent to recommended action. Anyone want to
pull? Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman, Buzek. Thank you. Excellent. All right, that's going to move us on to our
recommended action. Oh, it's 9:10 at night. My apologies. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, the
motion will pass 15 to 0. Thank you guys, for reminding me of that.
Perfect. So there are three recommended actions on the agenda tonight, listed under Section 16 for
actions E, F, and G. We are hitting our time barrier for 9:30. So I am going to get us through E and F,
hopefully. And then I will see if we do want to take an extension or not, to address G.
So the first action, E, is for 2025 Access-on-Demand funding for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to provide additional funding, $15,814,441 for the Accesson-Demand program, raising the not-to-exceed amount from $21.9 to $37.8 million, and delegation
authority to amend the contracts with existing providers to increase the current amount of program
funding for the remainder of the term of the contracts, which expires December 31, 2025. Do I have a
motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Whitmore as the mover, I got Guzman as the second. Is there any discussion
on this item? Yes, Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. I believe that we had a well-facilitated discussion during the
Operations, Safety and Security Committee meeting on February 12. Myself, along with other Directors,
were able to voice our concerns at that meeting. I ask that all Directors vote in favor of funding Accesson-Demand. I acknowledge that there is more discussion to be had around the long-term success, to
ensure the continuation of this great program, which will be had in the OSS Committee. So I ask for all
yes votes tonight. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Any further comments? Yes, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can defer, too.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker.

KAREN BENKER: More of a question. Is this particular program, Access-on-Demand, is it now available
to everyone that's living in the RTD district? Or is it just certain zip codes?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. So just by way of background, when the
program started, it was a pilot program. And it was only within four zip codes. Now it is RTD service areawide, as it relates to Access-on-Demand.
KAREN BENKER: Oh, interesting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. Also, I understand there's been some review of this program. When does
that come to the Board for-JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. So, as indicated by Director Paglieri, noticing that-- or he
basically stated, OSS-- It's coming next month as a discussion item, relative to both services, The ADAmandated paratransit program under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as well as the
Supplemental Premium Service being Access-on-Demand. We are going to bring all of that, as it relates
to various elements in which we've garnered feedback that was based upon the American Public
Transportation Association's peer review and the recommendations and all the legwork that we've done
as staff.
KAREN BENKER: But that's just a discussion item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's a discussion item so we can provide information relative to this group, so you
guys have an understanding of where we are. And then, as we go forward with feedback that we'll garner
from this body, would back an action item, hence that's why this funding aspect, aside of what was
appropriated, adding in the additional monies, is prudent because we don't know what we don't know,
relative to the timeline, since we want to ensure that we are having full-fledged discussion with this
collective body.
KAREN BENKER: OK, because my only concern is, we're asking for a supplemental, and we're not even
two months into our fiscal year. So that would be my concern. But thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I'm the individual that ran the amendment in Committee to not approve the
additional $2 million. And the reason, fundamentally, is that I think that it makes sense for us to consider
the changes to the program first, and then look at whether we need the additional money, not to approve
additional money, and then consider whether or not we're going to make changes to the program.
So what I'm going to do now, what I should have done then, which is, going off of what GM/CEO Johnson
just said, which is, this is going to come up next month for discussion in Committee. And then it's going to
come to the Board for action in May. I respectfully move to lay this item over to the June meeting, after we
have taken action on the Paratransit Modifications agenda item.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Ms. Johnson, I'm sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to speak. If, in fact, the Board decides to
lay this over, let me be clear that we will not be able to go forward with the Access-on-Demand program.
As indicated previously, this money was appropriated in the budget. I am coming before you to receive
delegation so we could go-- delegation of authority-- to leverage those funds to support this program. So
if this action isn't taken up, we will not be able to continue the program beyond February 28. I want to be
clear about that.
And then more so, also, I'll take the opportunity to comment, when we talk about where we are in the
year, and we're coming back for supplemental money, I also want to ensure that everybody is cognizant
of where we stand. There are a couple of elements upon which we don't know what we don't know,
meaning, in the previous administration, there was a proposed policy statement that was put out at the
federal government as it relates to drug and alcohol testing for on-demand programs such as this, that
would be required of transportation network companies, which we have leveraged, to utilize as means of
transport for this program.
The reason why it's imperative that we actually have additional monies relative to the $2 million, because
those comments were just submitted to the federal government via the Federal Register. And RTD
participated, along with The American Public Transportation Association. We don't know what may shake
out, meaning that we could be in a place where we have a program or we may not have a program.
Hence, that's where we are with the delay. Some of these things are external factors beyond our control,
relative to the Federal Transit Administration trying to clean up guidance that was issued, that was geared
toward taxicab companies.
I know I'm throwing a lot of information with you. But I want you to know that we have been good
judiciaries. But we are planning for unknown variables, as we've talked about what's happening at the
federal government. And to the point where we want to ensure that we can optimize and sustain
paratransit services, whether it's ADA mandatory or whether they're premium supplemental, that is our
intent here. But I would just offer up, if this program does not go forward, we are not able to-- if the vote
doesn't go forward in the manner of which it's been outlined, we would be, more or less, not providing the
Access-on-Demand service after February 28. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I withdraw my amendment, based on the comments of GM/CEO Johnson.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And actually, thank you, GM/CEO Johnson, for clarifying that. And I was
just going to say, I was a little bit nervous about adding the $2 million to the budget. But given your
explanation, I understand it. But I would like to see an accounting of what we get for that $2 million. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: My question is, to GM/CEO Johnson, does that mean that if we do not approve
the additional monies, the entire program collapses? I mean, that doesn't quite make sense. If the
additional-- or is it the entire-- if this is not passed today, the entire program goes away? I just-- I don't
understand that point.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. So what I understood from Secretary Nicholson, he asked, could we
lay over this item until June? What I was speaking to is, there was an appropriation put forward in the
budget, that was adopted by the Board of Directors on December 3, 2024. I'm seeking a delegation of
authority from this body to ensure that money goes forward, i.e. The $13.8 million. The $2 million is in
relationship to what I described, relative to the impending proposed policy statement and the various
variables we don't know about, relative to drug and alcohol testing pursuant to Federal Transit
Administration guidelines, that would be inflicted upon transportation network companies. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: --additional question, then. So we could fund the entire program as budgeted
without that additional $2 million tonight, and then perhaps, bring that question back up in a couple of
months when we do know more information. I just don't want to see the program go away. But I also don't
want to incur this additional cost, that we, as you said, we don't know what we don't know. So why don't
we, perhaps table that portion of it, fund the program, and put that on the burner till the next opportunity
we have to discuss it? Which would mean we would have additional information.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha, next.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. I hope I'm not out of order. I wanted to just make a procedural comment. So,
per Robert's Rules, if that's what Director Chandler would want to do, then Director Chandler, you would
be welcome to offer that amendment, just like we did in Committee, and then see if it would pass here. So
that would be the procedural move. And I hope-KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Understandable.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But It's possible that we could do that tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: As a point of order, this has already been budgeted. The $2 million question you are
asking is not the correct way to approach this conversation. This is for the delegation of authority, to
utilize what was already approved by the Board, previous to your arrival for this year. And so in that, the
$2 million is not up for debate or amendment at this point because you would be reducing the entire
year's budget by that amount, and going backwards to 2024. So if we are not talking about delegation of
authority here, then I would say we need to move back to the orders of the day or call the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so two things, very quickly. So we did, already have a discussion on cutting
the $2 million we lost. I think that it is perfectly reasonable to say that what happens in Committee-- we
shouldn't re-litigate, necessarily, questions that happen in Committee, much as I disagree with. But I
would say, and I'll just-- point of information from GM/CEO Johnson-- what was budgeted was the original
$13 million. This request does add $2 million from the reserves to pay for-- so this is going above what
was budgeted in 2025. You made your argument for it. We had that discussion. So I'm fine calling the
question. We got to move on, as you said. Sometimes you lose, sometimes you just do the thing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So the question has been called. Are there any no votes on this matter? OK, I'm
going to do a roll-call vote. Director Benker.

KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Si.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I'm a yes. It will pass 14 to 1. Thank you. OK, moving on, we're going to try to
get the sex-- Whoa! Second action item, which is item F.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: RTD after dark.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I've been teaching middle schoolers since 7:30, so-- So this is the contracted
security services.
[LAUGHTER]
For the Board of Directors to approve the Summary of Scope of Work for Solicitation for Security
Services, do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Buzek's the mover, Guissinger heard as a second. Is there any discussion on this?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Very quickly?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I just wanted to call out the incredible work of Director Paglieri in updating
this motion in Committee. It was thoughtful amendment, and for I think one of his first pushes to do this, it
was, I think, moved us in a very good direction on this one. And the question of the actual contract is
going to come back to the Board. And we'll get an actual look at it because of the work of Brett. So I just
want to say, thank you for what you did there.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Any further discussion? Yes, Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chris-- Director Nicholson. Just to clarify what you said in simpler terms, it
was presented in the OSS Committee as approving the summary of scope and pre-authorizing the
delegation. I think-- it's too late. I can't think of the word for delegating the funding, but we split that into
two. So now we'll have another vote on it later in the summer. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Any further comments or questions on this matter? Are
there any no votes? Seeing none, the motion passes. The recommended action passes 15 to 0. Pardon
me. I will now entertain-- So I'm recommending that we take a 10-minute break before we get to our final-so can we do this in five minutes? We would have to vote for an extension. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: So your bylaws stipulate that after four hours of a meeting, business, you would complete
the item under consideration and then vote to extend. Technically, you could take a motion now, get the
item on the table. At that point, you don't have to take another motion to extend, and then you can tackle
that-- you could take a quick break. once you put it on the table, though.
JULIEN BOUQUET: It seems like there's--

JACK KROLL: And please do, because the CART provider is very frantically keeping up with everything.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, sounds good. So put that to a vote to extension, then? Or-- OK.
[? VINCE BUZEK: ?] I thought we just moved-JACK KROLL: Put the motion on the table so that now,
JULIEN BOUQUET: --so sorry.
JACK KROLL: The clock basically extends until that item is finished.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is there a motion? Or is there a mover?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got O'Keefe and I got Guissinger.
[? PATRICK O'KEEFE: ?] Yeah, there you go.
JACK KROLL: So the motion would need to adopt the amend position as recommended by the Executive
Committee.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so the motion is to adopt a position on Senate Bill 25-161 regarding transit
reform. And we had O'Keefe as the mover and-JACK KROLL: Specifically, the position as recommended by the Executive-JULIEN BOUQUET: --position recommended by the Executive Committee. Thank you for correcting me,
and saying that in the record. So we'll take a 10-minute break.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, sorry.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JACK KROLL: No, no, no. [INAUDIBLE].
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, we're just making a motion. We're going to take a 10-minute break because
CART has to reload for us. We're going to come back.
JACK KROLL: You're going to come back, but now that it's on the floor, you don't have to vote-JULIEN BOUQUET: We don't have to do the extension now.
JACK KROLL: --to get through the discussion. Is that-JULIEN BOUQUET: Let's do a 10-minute break. We'll be back at 9:37.

[SIDE CONVERSATION]

JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, welcome back, everyone. So we are in the middle of our final action, which
is item G. I did hear Director O'Keefe as the mover and Director Guissinger as the second. I do also
understand that Director Nicholson would like to do the following. First, he would like to divide the
question, meaning he will make a motion to ask the Board to vote on each of-CHRIS NICHOLSON: That's incorrect.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You do not want to?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I just want to run amendments on the original motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, so Director Nicholson would like to run some amendments on the original
motion.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Do you want to do a-- explain the motion? Because we didn't do any of the first-JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --part of it, where you talk about and have a discussion. So yeah, let you introduce
it and everything.
[? LYNN GUISSINGER: ?] I hope I didn't mess it up.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So the first requested change, which deals with the composition of the proposed
Accountability Committee, the bill currently calls for two current RTD Board members to participate in the
proposed Committee as non-voting members. The Executive Committee is recommending that we
request two members to be voting members.
The second recommended position from the Executive Committee, which is included in the composition
of the proposed Accountability Committee, to place two former RTD Directors as voting members of the
proposed Committee. The final and third recommended position from the Executive Committee, which is
to oppose the addition of ex-officio members on the RTD Board of Directors. So again, there are three
major amendments that the Executive Committee is proposing. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so not to be pedantic, but I think for those watching at home, because we
haven't really talked about it in the meeting, it might be helpful to introduce what we're talking about, like
what this is and what it is we're making changes to, and that stuff, just so that we can have that on the
record before we move on to-JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. Absolutely. So to give context again, SB25-161 is going to be a transit reform
bill. We, specifically-- the Executive Committee is recommending our amendments that will go towards
the governance side and specifically, a proposed Accountability Committee. So these are where-- again,

where our recommended positions will be. It is three recommended amendments that the Executive
Committee is recommending amending. Again, changing it so that two of the current Board members
actually become voting members on this Accountability Committee, adding two former Directors as voting
members to this accountability, and finally, recommending that we do not add ex officios to this Board.
Again, for some historical context, the voters decided, in the 1980s, to make this an elected Board of 15.
So that is our three amendments. That is the background between SB25-161. And Secretary Nicholson,
are you ready to address your amendments?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am. I have additional questions for GM/CEO Johnson. But I'm happy to do my
amendments first, and then take those under the main motion, after we've done the amendments. So
thank you, all. So I'm going to move and then I'm going to talk about. So I move to amend the motion, to
add the requested amendment displayed on the screen. This amendment, as it shows up on the thing,
expands the mandate of the Accountability Commission to include a historical review of RTD's
governance, performance, and major policy decisions over its 45-year history with an elected Board.
So for those of you who've taken the time to read the legislation, the mandate of this Accountability
Committee, that will look at what we do, is extraordinarily limited. It focuses specifically on governance,
pay-- I'm trying to remember off the top of my head.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson, sorry to interrupt you. Is there a second for him to continue?
Yes.
KAREN BENKER: I'll second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Treasurer Benker.
[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] Clarification, are we doing these one at a time? Not as a set?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: The motion that he just made, the point of it-- so yeah, I have two amendments. I'm
going to do one each so that we can vote on them separately.
[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, to be clear, so yes, two amendments. We're looking at the first one. So to
talk about it now, thank you, Treasurer Benker. And I apologize for just starting talking. The scope of the
Accountability Committee, right now, is extremely limited. If you look at the process that was gone through
last year with the RTD reform bill that was killed, the analysis that was in their documents, that looked at
RTD and why a change should take place was extraordinarily limited.
It was a handful of pages that basically compared us to other transit agencies, and said, they have this
many appointed members, they have this scope of work. And there was no analysis at all about the work
that RTD had done and where we had been successful over the years and where we had been
unsuccessful. There was no learning about what made us work and what didn't.
And so I think it's incumbent upon us, as they're moving forward with this, to say, we want to make sure
you don't just compare us today, to other agencies today, but that you actually go back and look at what
we have done, when we have been successful, when we have not been successful, and learn from that in
evaluating our governance, our pay, all of the things that are in the bill. So this is just my addition to that
requirement, to make sure that we were fairly considered by this Accountability Committee.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Yes, Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I love the idea. I just don't think it fits into this bill timeline in a way that will move it
along because I think we have a very short working time period on this. So it gives me a little bit of
concern, Mr. Secretary, as far as that goes, that it would work into the bill in a pace that would result in
this Accountability Committee being done with their work in an expedient manner, to where we can move
on with a lot of bigger concerns that are ahead of us. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Chair-- or excuse me, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. I was actually-- I tried to make a motion to divide the question. I think
that would be easier because some of the amendments might conflate with what you have brought forth
with the Executive Committee. That motion can be made at any time, or almost any time, and it would be
proper to do it now if there was a second. It's not debatable.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Do I now? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm very tired. I make a motion to divide the question so that
the three separate amendments recommended by the Chair and the Executive Committee are considered
in three parts.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So just to clarify-- I might need some help with-- yeah Director-JACK KROLL: So she can make the motion. It's fine. She needs a second. It's not debatable. And it will
require a simple majority to pass. And if that's the case, my recommendation would then to be just go
back to the three main amendments or initial amendments, and then we'll tackle Director Nicholson's-CHRIS NICHOLSON: So point of information-- I hate to be this guy-- we are on the amendment right now.
So any motion to divide the question would be on the amendment, not on the main motion. So I can
withdraw this amendment, and we can take that vote, and then we can come back to this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Why don't you withdraw it?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll withdraw the amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. Always fun. Do I have a second for Director Ruscha?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director O'Keefe is the second. So again, there is no discussion on splitting the
question. But then again, so just for clarification, it is, we're splitting up-- we're taking a motion to separate
it. And so now we're going to do it to a vote. The main motion, we're asking to separate.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: We would be separating this into each of your amendments as a separate
question, and then what position we take would be another question, basically. So amendment,

amendment, amendment, and then, do you know, do we vote on that? Because yeah, so four questions,
basically.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So it would be-[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] All five amendments, and then the final question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Well-JULIEN BOUQUET: Correct.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: His are-- sorry. My amendments are not part of the motion. So we'd be just be
separating his motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That would be four.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Those three, and then, yeah, the question.
[? JULIEN BOUQUET: ?] [? We ?] would go back for-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right after we-- yeah exactly. [? Hold ?] question, please. Let's take a vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. The question has been called, then for the main motion. Do we have-CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, no, no. Just take a vote now on the motion to divide the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Treasurer Busek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer-- excuse me. I'm sorry. Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I am a yes. So it does pass, 13 to 2, to split up the proposed amendments, 12 to
three, pardon me. Perfect.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I believe we would tackle the amendments first, and then vote on what position
we would take, would make sense, rather than voting on the position and then seeing if-- would it make
sense to vote to-- just-- yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So we'll vote on the amendments, then.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: The way it's structured is, you have a position to amend with three positions. You're
going to vote on those three. Then you would return to the main motion, which is to amend, and you
would vote on that, overall.
[? JULIEN BOUQUET: ?] OK.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll run my amendments before we run the overall vote. OK, cool.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Sounds good. So we'll start with the first three, then.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Much better.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, now we're all clean. Everyone is getting a say. So we'd like to divide the
question. And the first amendment that we'd be voting on-- pardon me, let me get ordered-- would be the
amendment-[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, you have it? Perfect.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --ex officio.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. All right, the bill calls for the creation of an Accountability Committee
comprised of a number of individuals, including two current Board members, the RTD, who would be
appointed to that Committee by the Board, is ex officios. It is requested to amend the bill to indicate that
the two current Board members appointed to the Accountability Committee by the RTD Board be voting
members of the Committee. Is there a motion for this?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek so moved to-JULIEN BOUQUET: Buzek is the mover. Ruscha is the second. Is there any discussion on this? Yes,
Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm normally in favor of ex-officio members on other boards, as we have enjoyed that
privilege on several other boards. That being said, Roman numerals III and IV, I am not in favor of, which
permits the ex-officio members to have access to confidential information and permits ex-officio members
to participate in Executive sessions. And I do not agree with those provisions, so just wanted to comment
on that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Mr. Kroll, did you-JACK KROLL: So just to clarify, there's a bit of a duplication in how the word "ex-officio" is being used
here. It's being used in this context with respect to the two proposed RTD Board members on the
proposed Accountability Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, this is on the Board of Directors.
[? LYNN GUISSINGER: ?] No it's not.
JACK KROLL: No, that's number three, listed here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I made a motion. I apologize. Never mind.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director-PEGGY CATLIN: Just remember that comment for the third one, when it comes up, so I don't have to
repeat myself.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I call the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, call the question. Director-- Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I'm a yes. It passes 15 to 0. So the first amendment has passed.
JACK KROLL: Can I just chime in? With the use of the call, the question, you just need to be careful with
that. If discussion is exhausted, there's no need to call the question. Technically, when you call the
question, you're asking to end debate. And so now, you're kind of voting on the question as it stands, as
opposed to voting to end debate. And you just want to make sure that everyone's clear about what's
being voted on before you do that. No need to call the question if discussion has exhausted itself.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. Yes, Director-JOYANN RUSCHA: --point of order. When the question is called, it does have to be voted on. We don't
just move to the-- we don't just move to the vote. We have to vote to call the question. So we skipped that
step. I'm cool with-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] Are we good to take another vote, then? Are we all good?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Are we all good? OK, sounds good. All right, we're going to keep moving, guys. I'm
sorry. We're at the 10 o'clock hour. We got to keep this going. So the Second Amendment, so yes, it
passes 15 to 0. So the second amendment being proposed would be, the bill does not include any
representation from past RTD Board members. It is requested to amend the bill to include two additional
voting members appointed by the current RTD Board of Directors, to the Accountability Committee, such
that the Committee's total membership would include 15 voting members. In layman's terms, we're
basically asking to add two former RTD Directors to be voting members.
[? KAREN BENKER: ?] So moved.
[? PEGGY CATLIN: ?] Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
[? KAREN BENKER: ?] Can you just take no votes?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any-- sorry. Any discussion? Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: I'd like to offer an amendment, Sir. So I'd like to amend this motion to say that our
position is that half of the voting members of the Accountability Committee will be RTD represented-whatever, our representation, to equalize it, which is very common, I would add, in task forces. I could
name several that retired.
[? KAREN BENKER: ?] What's the question on it? So the [INAUDIBLE]?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So whatever the voting composition of the Accountability Committee ends up being,
our position is that half will be of RTD representation.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is there a second on that amendment?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just point of information. So the Amendment is instead, saying that 50% of the
Committee would be RTD-JOYANN RUSCHA: Voting Committee, yes of the voting members.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Voting members of the Committee would be RTD individuals?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] [INAUDIBLE]?
JOYANN RUSCHA: It would be up to us, how we appoint them.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Is there a second on that?
[? KATHLEEN CHANDLER: ?] Just second so we can discuss.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK-IAN HARWICK: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh. Director Harwick? OK. OK, so any discussion on the amendment to this?
[? JACK KROLL: ?] So this is to the amendment to the amendment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Sir. So the amendment basically, what we'd be voting on, based on Director
Ruscha-- they're proposing an amendment to say that the composition would be half voting members
decided by the RTD Board of Directors.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So this is pretty common in task forces. I think this would also equalize the process
to create more buy in and increase the odds that we do have collaboration and consensus, going in.
There is no harm in asking. And again, this would just be the Board position of our ask. And I think it is
fair. And I would be happy to follow up with whomever is interested, of multiple task forces under the
Governor, in which that was the division. I also point out, it works here, also with our [? JLMSE. ?]

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any other further discussion on Director Ruscha's
amendment? Yes, Director.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a question of clarification. So 50% has to be somehow associated with
RTD? Is it a current Board member? Past Board members? And how is that going to be decided? And if
we decide who those 50% are?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I think they-- thank you for that. Sorry. Sorry. Thank you, Director Chandler. The
intent of my proposal was that the Board would appoint those. And I trust, given that we've already started
this conversation, we would be able to figure out amongst ourselves how that would be divvied up. And
this Amendment-- or Chair Bouquet's amendment in front of us-- is only talking about the 15 voting
members, not the ex officios that come third. Sorry. Does that make sense? Basically, the RTD Board
would appoint. And it would be up to us. I presume, it would be a combination of current and former
Directors, maybe staff. But essentially, we would have a proper seat at the table.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further discussion? Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So with deep respect for my colleague across the table, I see this as a bridge too
far. I think we have to recognize what is the difference between a reasonable ask of the members of the
legislature on this one, and something that they will look at us and not take seriously. I believe that what
Director-- or sorry, what Chair Bouquet is suggesting here, is gettable. And I think in a situation like this, I
would rather run an amendment that I think they will accept than one that I think that they will pretty much
overtly reject.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any further discussion on the amendment? If it's OK with everyone, I'm
going to take it to a roll-call vote. Again, this is an amendment to the original amendment. We're voting on
Directors Ruscha's amendment, which would say 50% of the voting members of the proposed
Accountability Committee would be chosen by the RTD Board of Directors. I'm going to do a roll-call vote.
Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?

CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I'm a no. It will fail 3 to 12. OK, so now we're back to the second amendment.
And again, I'll say the language one more time. This was proposed by Director Guissinger and Chandler
is the second. The bill does not include any representation from past RTD Board members. We are
requesting that we're adding two voting members appointed by the current RTD Board of Directors to the
Accountability Committee. So any discussion on this? Yes, Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Quickly, I'm going to vote no. My rationale is that past Board members-- well, I believe
this legislation keeps coming forward, or something like it over the past couple of years, because the
State Legislature is sending us a message. And so consequently, I would like to see current Board
members be on the Committee, not past, because we know what we're talking-- hopefully. We know
where we're going. We know what our goals are going to be.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We just passed that. Yeah, there's two current Board members that will be on that.
KAREN BENKER: Correct. No, I understand that. But you're now talking about past Board members.
[? JOYANN RUSCHA: ?] Adding them.

KAREN BENKER: Right.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Adding them, adding additional.
KAREN BENKER: Right.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So we would give ourselves two extra votes on the-KAREN BENKER: I understand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Sounds good.
KAREN BENKER: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Although I respect and understand what you just said, Director Benker, I am going
to be very clear. I believe it would be wise to add and request the addition of two former Directors, which
we would choose with delicacy and appropriation of our body, to go to them, somebody who has led, that
understands the fiscal reality of RTD for the long term, somebody who has led and been a Director,
because what the Legislature fails to understand every time we have this conversation, because nobody
is there who has served on this Board, is what the hell we do.
They don't know what we, as Directors do. They think they know. They think they understand. But they're
not anybody, to my knowledge, in the Legislature right now, that is sat in these seats and has done what
we are expected to do. And the contentious nature of the message that they continue to try to send is
totally unacceptable because we are also equally elected to these positions.
And so I think it's wise that we send some other people to speak to that, who have actually had the
experience in the real world, outside of the gold dome of doing the Director's position in this form of
government, which is neither municipal nor state. It's in the weird area of a special district. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I have a question for you, Sir, a background question and context
question, and then a comment. Do we know? Do our represented employees unions, do they have a
position on this bill? Have we spoken to them? Because they might have their own additions of-- they
might want a seat.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I might-- I haven't heard.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Do you know?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I mean, they ultimately can erase this. And we could, later on, add amendments, too.
Tonight's not the final-- we're taking a position to amend, but later on, we could add.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So if I may, Sir?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.

JOYANN RUSCHA: So my thought is, it is very hard to say we have amendments, and then come back
and say we have more amendments, especially when the bill has been put in front of us. We could look
like we're not negotiating in good faith, so to speak. But I like this concept. I can't vote for it, simply
because I am willing to bet it's not going to end at 15 voting members. And this position specifies 15
voting members. What if the final Committee ends up being 21, and we said we wanted 3? Does that
make sense?
So if it were a percentage, even if it was less than 50%, I would be comfortable. But I'm pretty sure that
15 is a moving target, and gets very messy if we come back later and say, just kidding, can we have 4
and not 2, or something like that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I appreciate it, appreciate your logic. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, no.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I like this. And I like the fact that we're using past Board members because
it gets at Director Nicholson's concept of, they should know a little bit about the history of RTD. But let me
tell you, the first Accountability Committee, we spent, what? Seven, eight months teaching them what
RTD is and does because they didn't know. I won't say-- OK.
And that took a long time, right? And so if we're going to go back over the whole history of RTD-- and I
think Director Whitmore is getting to that-- but this gives hopefully, we can get some people that were
around when that Accountability Committee was present, the first one, to say, wait a minute, you guys
already did this. Why are we back on this again?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, and preferably, as I addressed during the Executive Committee, this would be-doesn't have to be, but-- former chairs, also, who would have a good experience when it comes down to
how the Board operates.
[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] I think that's a good idea. Yeah, I'm supportive.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sweet.
[? TROY WHITMORE: ?] Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any other further discussion on this amendment? OK, let's take a vote then, folks.
Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I'll vote Yes based on the persuasive discussion by Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Well, I am so persuasive.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. All right, Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: And I wish I could do that in court. Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I'm good with it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Fine.
[LAUGHTER]

JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll take it as a yes. Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Very fine, yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And it will pass 15 to 0. OK, finally-- I shouldn't say "finally"-- moving on to the third
originally proposed amendment, which is, the bill adds two ex-officio members representing DRCOG and
CDOT, respectively, to the RTD Board of Directors. The Board opposes the addition of these ex-officio
members, and requests that section of the bill be removed. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Absolutely.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, Director of Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second. I second it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, perfect. Catlin is the second. Discussion? Yes, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I actually really appreciated what Directors Benker and Catlin said about
the notion that more individuals in the discussion is not necessarily bad, but that the inclusion of them in
Executive sessions and to give them access to SSI, especially when we have a fiduciary duty as elected
officials, they don't, to the Board, strikes me as a bridge well, too far.
So with that being said, what I would suggest-- and I have the Amendment ready-- is that we change this
just to say, we strike the provisions-- and it's page 20 in the bill, sections 3 and 4. It's page 135 in your
packet-- that says, "the ex-officio Directors must be provided the same Board materials as provided to
every member of the Board, including information that may be deemed confidential." And then the second
one is, "the ex-officio Directors may participate in closed sessions, rules, regulations, policies not limited
to"-- the whole thing about, we must include them in everything.
So I would recommend that we strike both of those sections, and say-[? PEGGY CATLIN: ?] Is that an amendment?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: My amendment is to replace this with the instruction to strike sections 3 and 4 on
page 20 of the legislation, that require these ex-officio members to be given special access to our
Executive sessions and to be given SSI, secure information and that kind of thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second that. And it's Roman numerals III and IV.
CHRIS NICHOLSON. Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK., So yes, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. I just-- we don't have our Government Relations Team here, is that correct?
No. Oh.
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] They're online.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. So I have a question. Do we know DRCOG's position on this? Do
they want to be ex officios? Does anybody-- I feel like that was mentioned in a meeting recently, but I
don't want to misstate something if it wasn't official.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JOYANN RUSCHA: [INAUDIBLE] don't want it, so I don't-- I feel like we should just-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I don't-- may I-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't want to speak out of turn, but DRCOG has a specific definition as an NPO,
and what they are supposed to do. There was a robust conversation, I believe-- sorry, let me look up my
calendar. I can give you a date-- the last DRCOG Board meeting should have been February-Wednesday-- 19 February.
And there was a robust conversation that was in support of RTD, but also questioning why they would be
asked to be ex-officio members when they are mandated to be the convening body for all government in
the region. And so by putting them on a Board as an ex-officio member-- and I don't want to misstate
anything, so please don't quote me because I'm paraphrasing. There's a conversation there that explains
that better than I can. I'll say it that way. So I would refer to those documents. Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: And I just want clarification. Director Nicholson, your proposal is to keep the ex-officio
members, but limit their access to certain information?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Exactly. They would have the same access as the public would, basically, but
they'd be able to sit in the meetings and participate and everything like that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I've kind of come around to liking the idea of just saying we don't want
the ex-officio members. But that is my reason, is because they don't have a fiduciary duty. The CDOT
person's duty is to CDOT. And so I guess I would prefer to say no ex-officio members, and maybe instruct
our legislative team that a backup position is to take out the access to confidential information in
Executive session.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: So I think my stance in this regard is yes, to Director Nicholson's amendment, but no,
on the main motion, as amended, if it passes because it weakens the ex-officio role in case this Board
decides to leave the ex-officio recommendation in. See what I'm saying?
[? LYNN GUISSINGER: ?] No. Don't.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I get it. I'm sorry. I want to take Chair's privileges right here. I'm just going to be
frank. The 1980s voters decided for this to be an elected board of 15. What this would be saying, how this
bill states, would be adding two ex-officio Directors, Directors. I just want to put that as a clarification.
Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: I think I just got yelled at by the principal before I opened my mouth.
[LAUGHS]
I was that kid. Now I forgot what I was going to say. I think I lost where-- are we just having a-- I don't
know if we have different amendments that are competing? Or we're just discussing options?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, so-JOYANN RUSCHA: Because I would ask for clarification-JULIEN BOUQUET: Right now, we're just-- right now, we're discussing Secretary Nicholson's amendment
to amendment three.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So I'm of the position that we just go with the Executive Committee's
recommendation, and from a different basis that you're coming from, just on the basis that there will be
other organizations that will want to lobby, you know, their position on the Committee, ex officio or not.
And we can let them speak for themselves.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I appreciate that. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Quickly, what you said, 1980 vote, people spoke, they have not spoken differently
since. Adding two Directors as a way of appointment, that is a problem because we are not an appointed
Board. We should be elected. Direct election also allows for recall. And that was why we became an
elected Board. That was the impetus for the 1980 vote.
Number two, ex officios do not have the right to vote. If you do not have the right to vote, you do not have
the right to executive information and privilege. That's displayed in parliamentary procedure, Robert's
Rules, and it is the pro forma for most bodies of legislation or secret society or special society, as
Robert's Rules talks about it. So this doesn't make any sense at all.
And I would posit-- my hypothesis is that this Board, as the form of government for this region, and this
agency, probably has the authority, already to add an ex-officio member if we so chose, if we were
requested to do so under our own authority in our elected positions. We just have not exercised that
authority because there has not, to this point, been a need to.
Also, one last thing, adding two more members to this body goes against everything that was argued last
year, when I was the last Director in the room when this got laid over on the last day of the session, after
we fought all year long to have all of your seats, all of these seats, remain elected, and continue on. And
so if the Board was too big last year, why would you then be coming back to us and asking to add two
more people to the Board when you fought so hard to reduce it more than half? It doesn't make any
sense. So I can't square that math. I would-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Removing that section is best.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin, bring us home.

PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not going tod I'm going to withdraw my second on that./ I've been persuaded.
There's no need. I'm not going to fall on my sword over this. I just saw some benefit of ex-officio members
participating in other boards. So I'm withdrawing my second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Out of respect for Director Catlin, I withdraw my motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. So now, we're going to be voting on amendment three, as the original
drafted. As submitted, the bill adds two ex-officio members representing DRCOG and CDOT,
respectively, to the RTD Board of Directors. The Board opposes the addition of these ex-officio members
and requests that section of the bill be removed. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, that passes 15 to
0. Excellent. Yes, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would like us-- I would propose this amendment to what we are talking about, and
the main motion, which is that I am really frustrated with the write-in section of this as a candidate. There
are, to my knowledge, four write-in candidates that are serving on the Board, currently who have fought
for your seats-- remember that-- to stay here, long and hard. And we have served with dignity and
respect. But it is a slap in the face to those of us that were elected to the Board by that process, which is
a fair and legal process in the state of Colorado.
And we are not supposed to have special rules for special reasons in Colorado. I don't know exactly what
that rule is called. Director Ruscha can probably speak to it better than I can because I'm not working
towards a JD. But this rule would probably conflict with regular election law, and again, leads to the road
of appointment, which we have opposed as a body since 1980. I want to be very clear on that. Anything
that has to get us to appointment, outside of irregular Director self removal, should be opposed, in my
opinion. And so I would make an amendment to the regular-- to these amendments-- that we oppose
anything about writing candidacy being changed. Yes, a fourth amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Could you-- is there a second?
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] Yeah, I second that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] 7th.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So the-[? PEGGY CATLIN: ?] 16th.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So I think Mr. Kroll is writing it up right now.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yeah, [? seconded. ?]
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I believe that we had said that we would come back to the amendments that had
been submitted before we went to amendments from the floor. I am more than happy to hear-- he had the
floor. So he had the floor. The motion's been made and you'll get to the vote to. It works for me.

JULIEN BOUQUET: We'll get to it, secretary.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, give me one minute. Director Guzman, do you have the language?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, sorry, I would amend this to strike the words at 32-9-11.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: What page is that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That is page 22 of the bill,
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: --submitted to us. Election of Directors, dates, terms. The section that would need to
be struck is at the end of line one, "a candidate for elected Director is not eligible for election as a write-in
candidate."
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

MICHAEL GUZMAN: So page 137 in the packet.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, [INAUDIBLE].
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just to note that I believe, but I don't have this up to Control-F, that the write-ins, that
they might also be referenced elsewhere in the bill?
[? MICHAEL GUZMAN: ?] Yes, [INAUDIBLE].
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. And so I would just-- yeah, and all references, not just this section. And then
because I'm feeling cheeky, because it's way past my bedtime, it was article 2, section 25 of the Colorado
Constitution.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you very much. So folks, we're at 10:18 PM. I'm glad we're having this
conversation because again, this is us, coming to a fairly unanimous consent. We're at 15 and 0 with the
first three. Could we try to limit our comments to less than a minute? I would recommend. Yes, Director
Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I just have a question. There are many things I don't like. And so I would
caution us all to continue to amend, amend, amend, amend because I could come up with 10 things I
don't like about this. So I would suggest we limit the number of amendments because we can come back
in the future. So otherwise, we will be here till-JULIEN BOUQUET: Suggestion-KATHLEEN CHANDLER: --midnight.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Great suggestion. Are we good with taking a vote on the write-- or Secretary
Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I'm going to out myself on this one. I am Spartacus. I saw the original
draft of this bill that did not have this language in it, when it first came out. And I emailed Faith and said,
please, please, god, get rid of write-in candidates. And the second draft of the bill got rid of write-in
candidates. I don't know if it was just me that did that, but I strongly believe that the process that we have,
that requires you to get signatures, is a reasonable process that people can follow.
Most of the people on this Board did follow that process, either the first time-- maybe not the first time
they ran, but every time after that. And for the-- what did you say? Or reverse, yes. And we went through-the reason why it was particularly difficult in 2020 and 2022 is because we were in the middle of a
pandemic, and to it was impossible to get signatures.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Thank you. We're going to keep this going, guys.
Let's put it to a vote for the fourth amendment, which is a request to strike all references to the provisions,
limiting the write-in election process for RTD Directors. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I vote yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yup.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.

MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yep.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a Yes. So it will pass 10 to 5. Moving on, we're going to go down to Secretary
Nicholson. He has two proposed amendments.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So back to-JULIEN BOUQUET: You're recognized, Sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. You wanted me to stop talking. So I humbly move to amend the motion,
to add the requested amendment, split on the screen, expands the mandate of the Accountability
Commission to include historical review of RTD'S governance, performance, and major decisions over its
45-year history with an elected Board, with respect to the amount of time that the Commission has to do
all of its work. I am adding that last sentence to it, to address Director Whitmore's concern that we do not
overburden this group of people by asking too much of them.
So I would respectfully say that this will make the Committee better. It will make the product that they put
out better, and have a better understanding of what it is that we do and why we do it in our history. Thank
you, Sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: [? I just ?] need clarification.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sorry, a clarification. So the amendment you have, if I'm looking at this right, is
this one, right here. Right? And it says, "the Commission's final reporting deadline is extended to 2027."
So you're striking that--

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, strike.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So say again. What are you saying now?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: The screen.
JULIEN BOUQUET: It's on the screen.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
[? JULIEN BOUQUET: ?] Is there's one more thing-CHRIS NICHOLSON: There was-- yeah, so expand the mandate to include a historical review, major
policy decisions over its 45-year history. I forget exactly the words I used, but it's something to the effect
of-- what'd you say?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: --sufficient time for a-[? LYNN GUISSINGER: ?] That's not the history number.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It's 45 years of the-- sorry-- of the elected Board. So yeah, 45-year history of the
elected Board. This is what I sent you. And respecting the time limits on the Commission's work. There
we go, "while respecting the time limit on the Commission's work."
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Any discussion on this amendment?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sorry. Because of the extension of time, it will also extend the fiscal note. So
they have-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I took that out.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, how do you have a Committee extending time without a fiscal impact?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It's not. I took out the extended date. It's not in the language.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So whatever you determine as respecting the limits of the time-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Basically, they have time limits in the legislation that says it has to be done by
January.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Right.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So this is saying, allow it, respecting that they have a certain amount of time to do
their work.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I see. I see. So you're reverting back to the original time limit. Is that correct?

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] Was there-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes?
[? JACK KROLL: ?] Was there a second on that?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah was there a second? It was Director Benker. Thank you. OK, are we good with
taking this? Director Guissinger? Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, I think-- I don't think we need to amend it to-- I agree with you, but I
don't think it's that restrictive. I think they're going to look back at all the things they want to. And I just
don't think it's necessary. We sat with the previous Accountability Committee, and they did not feel
constrained by-CHRIS NICHOLSON: You have-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was just going to say, I concur with Director Guissinger and Director Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Let's put it to a vote, folks. You're good with that? Treasurer
Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also. No. It will fail. It's-- I got 12-3? Thank you.
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] Sometimes you have to-JULIEN BOUQUET: 3-12. Perfect. All right, now moving on-- sorry, folks-- we're now on to Director
Nicholson's sixth-- or excuse me, the sixth-- sorry-- the second amendment you're proposing-[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] Oh, Jesus.
JULIEN BOUQUET: The requested amendment adjusts the compensation structure of the Regional
Transportation District. Board of Directors to reflect those responsibilities and time commitments required
for governance. It establishes Board member salaries at 20% and the Board Chair salary at 40% of a
Colorado district court judge's annual salary. Ooh, sounds nice for me. Director Benker, you were the
second on this? Oh, no. Oh, sorry.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] [? Can we read ?] the motion out?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, who's the motion? Nicholson?

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then Paglieri-- thank you-- is the second. Discussion on this.
JOYANN RUSCHA: A question for the-JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So does this mean that you are also requesting that the Accountability Committee
not consider compensation for Directors?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, they're allowed to consider it. Just, this changes it in the legislation. So if they
want to-JOYANN RUSCHA: So we consider it for them, and then they could reconsider it later? I'm just making
sure that was your intent.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I didn't put it in the amendment. But they're welcome to look at it if they want
to.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I think that the Accountability Committee is going to look at the whole
structure. They may not have 15 Board members, still. I just think this is jumping the gun. I would just let
them do their work and make our arguments there. It's a big change. Are we paying that? We haven't
considered the financial effects and all of that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I agree with everything Director Guissinger just said. The other thing I'd ask that
everyone consider in this, this is a great idea. I think it is limiting the number of Directors that we get. And
I think it's something that-- well, it came up in the Transit Tuesday calls. And I think it's something that, at
an appropriate time, the Legislature will address. I don't think it is appropriate, given the likely fiscal
austerity that we're going to get forced to deal with, and in the context of having an open CBA with
compensation being considered. So I'd ask that this be rejected at this time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I just wanted to say I concur with Director Guissinger's comments on this matter,
and I'll be voting against this. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Are we happy to take it to a vote? Let's do it then, folks.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I-- sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Let's keep it going.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to withdraw the motion.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, sounds good. Motion has been withdrawn. Are you OK with that, Director
Paglieri? OK. Then we will not vote. OK, so this is where we're at. Sorry, folks, we have one more thing to
vote on. So currently, how it stands, there's four amendments that we're proposing to take a position on
when it comes to SB25-161. The question was split. We now have to vote. Do we want to take an amend
position after we just passed these four amendments? Yes, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Clarification. Are you asking do we want to vote to amend? I guess, because we
have four options. Is it-- just procedurally, I don't know how this So we have four options-- sorry-- amend,
oppose, support, monitor. Those are the four options that we can legally take.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't know.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We did just spend an hour or two discussing amendments. Jack?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Of course, [INAUDIBLE].
JACK KROLL: So you can return now, to the main motion here, which is to amend with these positions.
[? VINCE BUZEK: ?] Well, we have the main motions?
[? PEGGY CATLIN: ?] [INAUDIBLE] as amended.
JULIEN BOUQUET: As amended. Excellent.
[? VINCE BUZEK: ?] I think I made that motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any no votes on this? Seeing none, the motion will pass as amended, 15
to 0. Director Buzek? And our position is to amend. So.
[? IAN HARWICK: ?] We're good. It's done.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We're good? OK. Yes, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Are you able to pull up the draft bill on the screen or not?
[? JACK KROLL: ?] Yeah, I can get there.
VINCE BUZEK: Because I brought this up once before. And I think it's a big deal. But it's page 19,
Legislative Declaration, "effective January 1, 1983, the governing body of the District shall be a Board of
Directors consisting of 15 voting members." They want to change it to, "the governing body of the District
is a Board of Directors." So tomorrow, it could be a Board of Directors of 10 members, or 12 or 2. When
it's "shall," it's got to be 15. So people that are committed to the 15 members, this is changing that. And
this is telegraphing their position for next year, when they come back in and say, let's just cut this down.
[? LYNN GUISSINGER: ?] Make a motion-VINCE BUZEK: No, I just-- no, I'm good. I just want to call that to people's attention because it seems
like--

MICHAEL GUZMAN: There is that, also-- sorry-- but the safety clause at the end, in section 10, is also
problematic. And it puts any referendum going back to the people out of reach because it completely
removes that from the people who pay the taxes for this government. And so I think there's more that we
need to do. And this is not the end of this discussion. This is a good beginning.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, I think this is the beginning of the discussion, folks. I'm proud that we, as a
Board, were able to get this passed, take a position to amend. We took a position to amend. We passed
that 15 to 0. And we're taking the four amendments that we just voted upon.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I did, at the very beginning of this discussion, say I had questions for the GM/CEO
and stood back from that so that you could handle all of the other stuff, and was never given the
opportunity to ask questions about the bill and the process forward. So I'd appreciate the opportunity that
I stood back from for an hour or so that you could handle the stuff you wanted to.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha. Hold on.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I tried to vote no, and I had my microphone off. So could you record me as a no,
please?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely. Thank you. Questions for the-CHRIS NICHOLSON: --GM/CEO-JULIEN BOUQUET: Make it quick.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --about the bill. Thank you. One, specifically, GM/CEO Johnson, I think I sent you
this over email as a heads up, but has the Agency communicated to the Legislature through our
Government Affairs Team any requests for changes to the bill that have not been brought forward to the
Board?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Secretary Nicholson, as I indicated at the Executive
Committee that was held this past Thursday, I made it clear that I was awaiting direction from the Board,
relative to a position in which this governing body would take. Hence, I have not communicated with
anybody relative to any issues. What I did broach during the course of my brief presentation last
Thursday, that there were some concerns relative to understanding some elements of the draft
legislation. But until such time this Board took action, I have not, nor has any member of my team,
conferred with anyone in the Legislature, pertaining to any type of amendments. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think-- Sorry. I think there are problems, as I raised before, with the LiVE program,
potentially and possibly the EcoPass, requiring that RTD take over, to the maximum extent possible, the
administrative. But I feel like that's something that gets into Operations. I don't know if you want to come
back with those, Debra-- or Ms. Johnson.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Guissinger. At the Executive Committee, I did
call out those two elements because there is a myriad of different factors relative to, say, for instance, the
LiVE program. As we have an intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Human Services,
there's a lot of variables. What I indicated was that I'd like to understand, from the drafters' perspective,
for which they're trying to solve relative to where we are. And we have seen an uptick in usage with the
LiVe program.
And as we talk about EcoPass, we did a fare study and equity analysis that addressed a myriad of
different issues. So I don't know what I don't know.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Director.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yes, Director Chandler
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I think the point made is that we will still have additional amendments. So we
could, again be here till 1 o'clock in the morning talking about this, because there's a lot in here. So I
would highly recommend everyone take a fine-tooth comb, and we continue to work through our
additional committees on the appropriateness of what amendments should come forward on this bill.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So the first hearing is on March 5. You're our Chair. You can call
Committee. Are we going to meet-- convene again before this? Because I think, as noted, we're not done.
And there are some other pieces we will get to.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We probably will not meet before that. We're going to move forward with a position to
amend based on the four amendments that we just had the hour and a half discussion on, and then-JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so if people have-- I'm sorry, I interrupted.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So if individual Directors have concerns about the bill that weren't addressed tonight,
then we just-JULIEN BOUQUET: You can-JOYANN RUSCHA: --individually?
JULIEN BOUQUET: You can testify as an individual. But this Board has taken a stance to amend.
Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chairman, out of respect for the staff and the sanity of the Board, I'd like to
entertain a motion to adjourn.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved from Whitmore.
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] Point of order-JULIEN BOUQUET: And we don't need a second.
[? CHRIS NICHOLSON: ?] We still have one item under discussion.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] So-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Mr. Kroll.
[? JACK KROLL: ?] So now that you've exhausted Senate Bill 25-161 Board position, you've elapsed your
four hours, and you would need to vote to continue the meeting, you have a motion on the floor to
adjourn. My recommendation is to see if there's any opposition to adjourning, and then take a roll-call
vote if there is, and you can adjourn.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Point of order. The Chair has the privilege of adjourning at any time. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. I say we adjourn, then. We're done. Have a good night, everybody.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Chris Nicholson
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 12:11 PM
Ad W
RTD.Directors
Re: RTD's Access on Demand

Adam,
Thank you for reaching out. I support Access On Demand. I ran an amendment to keep funding AOD at
the level we budgeted in 2025. The agenda item before us would have increased that spending by 15%.
My goal in running the amendment to maintain our budgeted spending was to ensure that we take care of
everything that RTD does especially as our tax revenue is dropping and federal grants may be at risk.
I wish we could afford to do everything we want; run more buses and trains, pay our drivers a living wage,
increase access a ride availability, and more.
I know how beneficial this program is for so many individuals to maintain their independence. Im sure
thats equally true for the young family member you take care of.
The challenge is that we were voting to increase AOD funding by double digits without considering any of
those other priorities at the same time, the way that we do when we pass the budget. I knew the overall
funding had the votes to pass. I voted no because I wasnt willing to authorize the increase without first
looking at everything else we need to pay for.
I know how popular AoD is with people here in Central Denver. I promise you that Im not about to treat
unfairly a program so many people in my district rely on.
As a constituent, I would be more than happy to meet up with you to talk about this more in person,
wherever is most convenient for you. These choices affect peoples lives and I take them incredibly
seriously.
Best,
Chris
Chris Nicholson
Director  District A
Board of Directors
he | him | his
m: 720.935.5645
chris.nicholson@rtd-denver.com
rtd-denver.com
1

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202

We make lives better through connections.

From: Ad W <adamwilliams111991@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, February 19, 2025 11:24 AM
To: Chris Nicholson <Chris.Nicholson@rtddenver.com>
Cc: Matt Larsen <Matt.Larsen@rtddenver.com>; Kathleen Chandler <Kathleen.Chandler@rtddenver.com>;
Patrick O'Keefe <Patrick.OKeefe@rtddenver.com>; Julien Paulding Bouquet <Julien.Bouquet@rtd
denver.com>; Karen Benker <Karen.Benker@rtddenver.com>; Vince Buzek <vince.buzek@rtddenver.com>;
Troy Whitmore <troy.whitmore@rtddenver.com>; Ian Harwick <Ian.Harwick@rtddenver.com>; Brett Paglieri
<Brett.Paglieri@rtddenver.com>; JoyAnn Ruscha <JoyAnn.Ruscha@rtddenver.com>; Michael Guzman
<Michael.Guzman@rtddenver.com>; Chris Gutschenritter <Chris.Gutschenritter@rtddenver.com>; Peggy
Catlin <peggy.catlin@rtddenver.com>; Lynn Guissinger <lynn.guissinger@rtddenver.com>
Subject: RTD's Access on Demand
Dear Director Chris Nicholson,
I am in your RTD district, and I am a caregiver to a family member who is a young, disabled adult in
District A. He is not able to drive, nor able to navigate the RTD services. I try my best to drive him to his
various appointments throughout the week, but I am not always available to take him to medical
appointments, therapy, to classes, etc.
The RTD Access on Demand service has been pivotal in helping him make it to his appointments, despite
his disability. We are very grateful for this program, and how much it has helped keep his appointments
going smoothly and fluidly during the week.
Recently, I learned from the disabled community that despite community feedback, the message has not
been getting through on how significant the RTD Access on Demand service is to those it was meant to
serve. I understand that you, Brett Paglieri, and Kathleen Chandler were the three directors who voted
against approving this budget. I hope to appeal to you, as you were entrusted to a position of authority to
help support customers, including the disabled community, and hope that you would reconsider the
importance of this program to service their needs.
I also hope that you would see things from a disabled person's point of view and would understand that
the removal of this program would be detrimental and devastating to disabled residents in the area. I
implore you to reconsider, and to please keep the Access on Demand program available, even if it means
to reduce the number of monthly rides accessible. Thank you very much for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Adam Williams
(Concerned Caregiver)

2

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Amy Dougherty <amydougherty55@gmail.com>
Monday, February 17, 2025 9:24 AM
Michael Guzman
RTD.Directors
Thank you for supporting RTD Access on Demand, a critical service for me

Dear Director Guzman,
I am in your RTD district and am disabled. Im 22 and learning to live in Denver with
limited mobility and means. I wanted to express my appreciation for your support of the
RTD Access on Demand service. It is difficult to navigate other RTD services for people
in my situation. I am unable to drive and rely on my dad for rides but he works and is not
always available. This program helps me get to medical appointments, urgent care and
my college classes when Im unable to walk.
I heard this from the disability community: Although so many of us have done exactly
what RTD requested and provided feedback via online forums and feedback forms, the
message is not getting through about how critical this program is to our community. We
need to get our message directly to our elected board members. Even with the approval
of the 2025 budget, next month RTD will be presenting to the board its proposal for
future cuts and changes to the program. The three Directors who voted against
approving this budget are: Chris Nicholson, Brett Paglieri, and Kathleen Chandler.
My message to the three who voted against Access on Demand: try living in my
situation, or anyone disabled, for a week. Eliminating this program would be another
heartless blow to everything the federal, state and local governments are considering.
Perhaps you can help convince them on our behalf.
Please support our area disabled residents and keep the Access on Demand program.
Limit the number of daily rides if necessary but please dont eliminate it. Thank you.
Sincerely,
LC Dougherty
1510 Blake St, Denver 80202

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Carol Silvestain <msilvestain@msn.com>
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 11:45 AM
RTD Board Office
Access on Demand - Budget

Hello!
I am writing in support of continued funding for the Access on Demand Program. It is a much
NEEDED resource for my daughter to navigate to/from work on so many levels:
1. On time  Able to keep her job.
2. Significantly reduced anxiety  no wondering if/when a ride would come AND nor worry
about when she'd be dropped off. Thus, she arrives at work able to work  she is calm
and regulated  Able to keep her job
3. Independence and ability to contribute to society.
I am outraged to learn that Colorado is spending 1.3 BILLION dollars on a sculpture at DIA....1.3
BILLION dollars. (Denver Post 21925). We NEED services and resources.
Please forward this to your Board of Directors.
Thank you for taking into consideration the NEEDS of the disabled community AND their
families  who are citizens of Colorado  not of DIA.
Carol Silvestain
Centennial, CO

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Cody Bates <cbatesla@gmail.com>
Tuesday, February 25, 2025 8:04 AM
RTD.Directors
Please fix the trains

Please. Im begging you. This is supposed to be reliable public transportaon. I dont even have any transfers and it takes
me up to two hours just to get from Union staon to Dry Creek.
This has been going on for way too long. Chris Nicholson has said its money. But what kind of budgetary issue could
cause the collapse of our public transportaon for months on end? Its embarrassing. And IM GOING TO LOSE MY JOB.
Sent from my iPhone

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Cody Bates <cbatesla@gmail.com>
Monday, February 24, 2025 8:15 AM
RTD.Directors
Train delays

Its been months. Months. I am going to lose my job because I cant get to work on me unless I leave, not exaggerang,
3 hours early. I fear I will have to move to another city with reliable transportaon. You guys keep saying youre working
on it, but each day is worse than the last. Please fix RTD.
Sent from my iPhone

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

Greater Denver Transit <greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com>
Tuesday, February 25, 2025 3:30 PM
RTD.Directors; RTD Board Office; Jack Kroll; Tai-Shrae Parish
Debra Johnson; RTD General Manager
RTD Board Meeting Public Comment - Letter - February 25th 2025
20250225_RTD_Board_Letter.pdf

Good afternoon Jack / Tai-Shrae,
Please include the attached letter and materials in the transcript / minutes (as appropriate) for
tonight's Full Board Meeting. It is submitted as public comment.
I'll be remote tonight due to an injury but other GDT members will be attending in-person.
Best wishes,
Richard Bamber
(For and on behalf of Greater Denver Transit)
(303) 803-3898
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
www.greaterdenvertransit.com
To help protect y our priv acy , Microsoft Office prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.

1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, February 25th, 2025
February 25th, 2025
Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topic:
Allied Universal Security Contract Scope of Work
This month, the Allied Universal security contractScope of Workis up for approval by the Board andsadly it
features the same old vague task descriptions that have led to large parts of the RTD system almost never
seeing security staff on a regular basis.
For years now, light rail and bus operators, riders, and prospective riders have been telling RTD Management
and the Board they have felt abandoned when riding the network. Behaviors that violate RTDs Respect The
Ride and earlier codes such as fare evasion, drug use, playing loud music, and even more threatening
anti-social behaviors are extremely widespread, and are still going unaddressed on-board buses and trains
despite a significant ramp-up in security staff and department budget.
The persistent illegal drug use, and other criminal behaviors, are hurting both RTDs operator retention as well
as ridership. In 2024, despite very positive hiring statistics, retention was abysmal.For every 5 newbus
operators hired, nearly 3 others left. In light rail, it was much worse: for every 5 hired, 4 others left.
Operators are regularly reporting that the drug use and other illegal behaviors are major contributors to the
attrition, and to date, this has not been meaningfully addressed.
Last year, the RTD Transit Police reported to theOSS Committee meeting on November 13th (Page 246)they
had contacted just 40 trains for fare inspections between July and September 2024, which isless than1 train
per dayacross the entire 60 mile system. At the sametime, riders usually observe RTD security hanging out
in large groups at Union Station, or in parked SUVs, rather than being out and visible on the system, where
their presence would be supporting operators and riders by discouraging illegal behavior before it happens.
During the life of the new security contract, the East Colfax BRT service is expected to start operating, which
will feature all-door boarding and off-board fare collection, meaning that the bus operators will not check for
fares. The possibility of the City of Denvers premier transit project turning into mobile hellholes is real, given
the currentchallenging natureof the existing 15/15LColfax bus routes from a safety and security perspective
and apparent lack of a security plan from RTD.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Tonight you will hear from several regular RTD riders who have been assaulted, robbed, threatened and
otherwise made to feel very uncomfortable on board RTDs buses or trains. GDT urges all Directors to listen
carefully and decide whether the proposed Allied Universal security contract scope of work is acceptable and
will actually lead to an improvement in on-board conditions for riders. We respectfully remind everyone that it
was confirmed by staff at the OSS Committee meeting on February 12th that a delay in signing the new
contract to accommodate revisions will have minimal cost implications for the agency.
It is vital that RTD Management take steps to modernize the obsolete fare enforcement and security
procedures away from irregular (on bus and light rail) police-driven fare checks in favor of a universal
fare-collection program that includes giving security staff the ability to sell tickets on-board.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page2

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

kai abelkis <kaiabelkis@gmail.com>
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 6:07 PM
RTD.Directors
Boulder downtown station

Hello,
First a note of appreciation for your commitment to public service.
Appreciate it if you would consider upgrading the downtown Boulder station.
Thanks.
Kai Abelkis
2281 Watersong Cir, Longmont, CO 80504
(303) 929-2332

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Ken Hendren <nwhrmnyldg@hotmail.com>
Monday, February 24, 2025 8:56 AM
Brett Paglieri
RTD.Directors
Vote to approve Access on Demand

Director Paglieri,
As a Golden resident, voter and your constituent I ask you to approve the 2025 budget to continue fully
funding Access on Demand. I am deeply concerned about your uninformed and shortsighted vote against this
program at a previous meeting. While it no doubt tastes sweet to a young, naive, newly elected public servant
such as yourself the RTD KoolAid is indeed toxic and riddled with halffacts and artfully parsed data that
misrepresent the true lower costs of access on demand relative to similar adjacent programs. I am the step
father to a disabled young man who just like yourself strives daily to thrive by maintaining his employment
and independence. He asks for nothing special, merely the opportunity to continue with the life he has built as
a taxpayer with the service provided to him through Access on Demand.
Most sincerely,
Kenneth Hendren
Golden, CO

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Maureen <mcurno1@gmail.com>
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 8:45 AM
RTD.Directors
Drivers and cost of airport buses

Good morning,
I am writing to support increased wages for bus and train drivers. To help offset the additional costs, I
suggest you consider raising the fare for seniors on airport buses. I recommend retaining lower fares
for regular riders/workers and some of the other special groups while raising the $1.35 fare for most
seniors.
Thank you
Maureen Curno

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:

6wildhorses@comcast.net
Monday, February 17, 2025 12:47 PM
Patrick O'Keefe
RTD.Directors; RTD Board Office
Access-on-Demand
Access on Demand.jpg

Dear Director OKeefe,
My name is Sharon Miller, and I live in your district. My 23-year-old son, Jordan, has Down Syndrome, and he uses
Access-on-Demand. This service allows him to access the community with his one-on-one providers. Most
providers dont have commercial car insurance, so theyre unable to drive him around. Without Access-onDemand, my son would be stuck at home, even when Im paying providers to spend time with him.
I attached a photo of my son after he attended the Holiday Celebration at the Highlands Ranch Mansion. He could
not have attended this event without Access-on-Demand. He also uses Access-on-Demand to go to the grocery
store, restaurants, Game Train, the mall, the library, the Highlands Ranch recreation centers, the Denver Museum
of Nature & Science, and more. Access-on-Demand helps my son stay active and healthy.
Jordan qualifies for Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services. Without access to reliable transportation,
the community is inaccessible. We tried Access-a-Ride once, and it was not a reliable form of transportation. In
fact, when we tried to get home from downtown Denver, we took an hour detour into the foothills to get home! This
is not feasible, especially for people with disabilities who have unique needs.
Please continue to support Access-on-Demand. Currently, were responsible for tipping the driver. Well gladly
keep covering this expense, but if you start adding trip fees as well, the cost will quickly add up, making the
community inaccessible once again. Even when my son goes to Denver, we must cover part of the expense. The
voucher only covers $25, so he usually stays close to home.
Thank you for your consideration. Colorado has a rich history of meeting the transportation needs of the disability
community. The transition from institutional care to Home and Community-Based Services would not have been
possible without reliable and accessible public transportation. Im grateful I live in a state that prioritizes people
with disabilities.
Sincerely,
Sharon Miller

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Renee Boyes Walbert <reneewalbert@gmail.com>
Monday, February 17, 2025 5:12 PM
Kathleen Chandler
RTD.Directors; Deidra Walbert
Keep Access on Demand

Director Chandler
This is the only way my daughter can live in her host home and get to work and doctors appointments.
Access a ride is not available to her address. Shes intellectually disabled, visually impaired and hearing
impaired with a connective tissue disorder. Please do not discontinue this crucial service
ReneeWalbert
She lives on Princeton Place off of Quincy and Malta
If you want to walk fast, walk alone. If you want to walk far, walk together. African Proverb

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Rev Melinda <revmelinda320@gmail.com>
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 12:25 PM
RTD.Directors
Access a Ride para transit services on RTD

Dear Director Paglieri,
I live and work in District M.
Please make my comments a matter of public record.
I see you voted against funding this service at your recent Directors' meeting.
Please change your vote and fund this sevice. It is a lifeline for many of us who live here.
You are either (temporarily) not disabled or not economically disadvantaged, or both-- to have voted
against funding this program. I am disappointed in your indifference to this community. Do better.
Sincerely,
Rev. Melinda Baber
1470 S. Pierce St.
Denver, CO 80232
Revmelinda320@gmail.com

1

