Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 15, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
October 13, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Cohen, Daly, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Pulliam, Tobiassen
Director Kemp

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Scott Reed, Bruce Abel,
Paula Perdue, Cal Shankster, Bill Porter, Teresa Sedmak, Robert
Merriman, Terry Howerter, John Shonsey, Tony McCaulay, John
Dawson, Mike Gil, Dean Shaklee, Lou Ha, Carolyn Conover, John
Tarbert, Rick Clarke, Bill Weidenaar

Others Present:

Jeff Leib, Andrew McKendrick (PRM Asset Management), Oba Brooks
(PFM Asset Management), Dee Wisor

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration Committee to order at 5:52
p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Mileage Differential for Eligible Board
Members – Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer and Paula Perdue, Executive
Manager to the Board of Directors presented this action item. This is a minor
change to the current mileage differential policy. This resolution extends the
eligibility for mileage differential to now include directors who are now traveling
more than thirty miles per day on company business.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to
forward the item to the October 20,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda and
asked for the floor.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 2 of 5

Second:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

Director Busck stated that he is really in opposition to this but will move it anyway.
He believes that a car is a tool similar to a cell phone necessary for doing business.
Director Bagley wanted to know what Director Busck would propose as an
alternative. Director Busck said that computers and cell phones come out of a
separate account and we should have a separate account for mileage. Local
expenses would be used only for business meals and conferences.
Director Bagley wanted to know if it would be instructive to ask staff to respond to
his suggestion. What is the urgency of getting this determined right now? Ms.
Perdue responded that one of the issues is what the IRS considers as a
reimbursable expense. We would need to see if mileage was something separate
from a reimbursable expense.
Director Cohen said if there was a separate account, how would we define what
that budget number should be because mileage is different for everyone.
Director Busck suggested putting the local and travel expenses into one account.
Ms. Perdue stated that it would be very difficult from an accounting stand point
and also for internal control.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Director Cohen wanted to know when the resolution would take effect and the
answer was January 1, 2010.
b. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Authorizing the General Manager to Take
Action with Respect to Interest Rate Exchange Agreements if specified
conditions exist
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve Resolution No. ____, Series of 2009, authorizing the General
Manager to take action with respect to interest rate exchange agreements if
specified conditions exist.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to
forward the item to the October 20,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 3 of 5

c. Request to Execute Contract – External Auditors
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Bondi & Co. LLC to perform the District’s
annual external audit services. The initial three-year term of the contract would
be for the fiscal years 2009, 2010, 2011 in the amount of $285,000 with
options to extend for two more years, 2010 at $105,000 and 2013 at
$110,000 at the District’s discretion.
Motion:

Director Christopher made a motion to
forward the item to the October 20,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed 13-1, Director
Chacon opposed and Chair Kemp was
absent. This item will be referred to
the Recommended Action portion of
the Board agenda.

II.

Request to Pursue Market Refunding Opportunities on Certain RTD Sales
Tax Bonds and Certificates of Participation - Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debts and
Investments, said that with interest rates low there is an opportunity to do some partial
refunding on the District’s bonded debt and Certificates of Participation and she wanted
the committee’s approval to proceed with the work to get it ready for market. The
market may or may not be there but she wanted the Committees approval to move
forward. The Committee gave her approval to go ahead with pursuing any opportunities.

III. Annual Report to the Board – Interest Rate Swaps - Ms. Sedmak said that this is a
requirement to report to the Board on an annual basis. She is not recommending any
changes to the policy at this time. The District currently has three swaps fairly identical
in nature with highly rated firms.
IV. Sales and Use Tax Update - Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, introduced this item.
On September 21, 2009, staff received the new forecasts from CLC and the Office of
Budget and Planning. On August 2009 receipts were 15.2% below 2008. The primary
difference was the Democratic National Convention held in August 2008. If there had
not been the DNC, sales tax would have been down about 11%. Sales tax regarding
autos has been flat since July. Decreases in hotel/restaurant areas. The 2009 run rate is
14.3% down. If all the adjustments are taken out it is closer to 13.3% down. Staff is
forecasting 11% down from 2008.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 4 of 5

Mr. Howerter then spoke about changes in the vendor allowance. The vendor allowance
will be eliminated on RTD collections starting October 1, 2009 and ending simultaneous
with the State on June 30, 2011. Letters have been sent out to over 70,000 vendors
informing them of this change. The District is working on an IGA with the State to settle
up on the mailing.
The collections assume we will receive 75%, in October, 90% in November and 100%
in December 2009.
Mr. Howerter reviewed the updated sales and use projected tax growth rates that went
out to the Board in the packet. These numbers do not include the impact of the vendor
allowances. In 2009 the District expects to see about $3 million, 2010, $13 million, and
$7 million in 2011.
Mr. Howerter pointed out that there were several items in the TDP to mitigate the
budget shortfall in 2010. One item was drawing on the operating revenue reserve for $7
million. With the change in the vendor allowance, he would anticipate that we would no
longer need to draw the $7 million down from the operating reserve in 2010 but could
use the vendor allowance to offset that and that would leave us $16 million to take care
of our operating cost reductions in 2011.
Director Christopher said looking at the change in forecasts in 2012, there is a .3%
increase. What are the assumptions? Mr. Howerter explained that- what drives this is
combination of population growth and CPI. This is based on the forecast from CLC.
Director Bagely wanted to know what the present total amount is in the Operating
reserve. Mr. Howerter responded that it is at $18 million. Director Bagley asked if it was
adequate. Mr. Howerter responded that it is adequate in relation to the TDP. Board
policy is to retain 5% of our operating expenses in the reserves.
V. August 2009 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman stated that boarding were down
August 2008 to 2009 most likely due to the DNC. Overall boardings are down about
300,000 per month. Unadjusted run rate 14.3 percent down on sales tax. Fare revenue
is very close to plan. Expenses and expenditures are within the amended budget.
VI. Potential Revenue Source Review- Mr. Howerter shared that advertising revenue options
would be presented in Operations Committee. For the November 2009 Financial
Administration Committee Susan Altes will come and speak about RTD lease options.
Director Brohl spoke about possible video running on light rail and if that could generate
some revenues. It had been presented to the Board a few years ago and she was
wondering if it could be examined again. Phil Washington shared that the company that
made the original proposal was now out of business but the District would check to see
what other vendors might offer. He also shared information on another transit agency
that had implemented this service and found it difficult to manage, especially on short
distances. This was more conducive for longer commuter based service.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on October 13, 2009
Page 5 of 5

Director Cohen spoke about using Wi-Fi as a revenue source and also an amenity for our
riders.
Director Martinez spoke about using monitors at our stations with advertising on the
perimeter.
Director Christopher spoke about with more than fifty transit stations to be built there
could be an opportunity to sell naming rights and this would require enabling legislation.
Director Bagley wondered about using impact fees similar to what E-470 has. Director
O’Boyle shared that this is a miniscule source of revenue with a high irritation factor in
regards to enforcement.
Committee Chair Tayer thanked staff for continuing to look for alternate sources of
revenue.
VII. 2010 Annual Budget Update – Robert Merriman reported that the requested budget has
been advertised to the public and is available for review in the Board office. The
recommended budget will come to the Financial Administration Committee in November
of 2009.
VIII. Other Matters - Director Bagley spoke about if there is any real estate project that we are
getting information on, please have staff provide a map so the Directors can have a
better understanding of the area the project it will affect. Director Bagley also requested
that individual District maps be placed on the public website.
IX. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
November 10, 2009.
X. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair
Tayer adjourned to the Operations and Customer Services at 6:30 p.m.

