Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, July 18, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Remote

5:18 PM
5:17 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

4:35 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:06 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:34 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:16 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:17 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Folska was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Larry
Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover,
Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Brenden
Morgan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Pranaya Shrestha, Lindsey Smith, Mark Tieman, Monica
Treipl-Harnke, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

William Gross, Michael Sakas, Jean Shreve, John Thompson, Bob
Wilson

B. Introduction of Thor, RTD K-9 Officer (No Backup)
Committee Chair Anderson said that the Board had a special treat tonight as Thor,
RTD’s newest K-9 transit police officer, would be introduced.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer/Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, said asked Chief Bob Grado, Sergeant Amy Homyak and Thor, the
wonder dog, to come forward to be introduced.
Bob Grado, Transit Police Chief, said that Thor, RTD’s newest member of the
transit police force, is with us tonight. He stated RTD was able to adopt Thor
through a grant from the Department of Homeland Security and that Sergeant
Homyak and Thor had just completed twelve weeks of training together.
Committee Chair Anderson said that Thor was one of the cuddliest police officers
that RTD has ever had.
Director Walker inquired about Thor’s specialties and asked what he had been
trained to do.
Sergeant Homyak said that Thor was a detection dog, and he spends a great deal
of his time at Union Station. She added that she and Thor also devote as much
time as they can throughout the district.
Committee Chair Anderson said that she was excited and looks forward to seeing
Thor around the district.

C. Recommended Actions

• Enter into a Contract with RouteMatch for MDT and On-Board Software for
Access-a-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for computerized

Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) and onboard software with RouteMatch
Software, Inc. (RouteMatch) (Contract Number 17DH025) for an amount
not to exceed $1,800,000.
The price includes MDTs, software,
implementation and three years of extended support.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel said that in 2008 RTD went live with the
RouteMatch software and in 2009 went live with the Mobile
Data Terminals (MDTs). He stated that the current MDTs
have reached the end of their useful life and staff is unable to
make upgrades to the devices. He stated that staff is working
with RouteMatch to make necessary updates as needed, but
the current devices have high failure rates and are difficult to
procure. He explained that it was imperative that the MDTs
be replaced so that staff can have an up-to-date solution to
react to real time changes, and staff appreciated the
committee referring this action item to the full Board for
approval.
Director Menten noted that the current MDTs were purchased
in 2009 and the end of useful life was reached years ago. She
asked what guarantees RTD has to ensure the new devices
will last longer than three years and inquired if there was a
warranty.
Eric Farrington, Senior Project Manager, explained that RTD
got a good five to six years out of the original devices. He
said that the current MDTs are requiring additional service and
there are no replacements available. He noted that the new
devices chosen by staff are a second generation of the original
devices currently in use, and the extended support will cover
the devices for three years.
Director Lubow commented that this was a sole source
contract. She asked what criteria was met in order to have
this as a sole source, and asked that Board Reports include the
supplementary information for sole source criteria.
Mr. Farrington explained that RouteMatch software handles
scheduling and manifests for the agency. He said the

software on other vehicles must match the software on buses,
and this contract accomplishes that requirement.
Mr. Abel remarked that in 2008 RTD used Trapeze software.
He stated that it is desirable to have an integrated system, and
if there are two separate vendors, there will always be a
disconnect between the two programs. He noted that RTD’s
strategy is to have a single point of software to make sure
that it works.
Director Solano stated that this was great, and if it made the
system work better, he would support this 100 percent.
Director Deadwyler asked if this software would improve the
GPS on buses.
Mr. Farrington stated that the software will include GPS on the
buses. He added that there will be an external antenna added
to improve the signal, and it will use live maps to ensure they
are always up to date.
Committee Chair Anderson remarked that this was fantastic
and will allow RTD to be much more efficient and to meet
ADA passengers needs easier and quicker.
Director Deadwyler commented that she would be voting in
favor of this item.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams
Claudia Folska
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Enter into a Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger Counters for Light
Rail Vehicles
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for purchase,
installation and maintenance of Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) with
INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract Number 17DH026)

for an amount not to exceed $2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000 from
project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345 (New Automatic
Passenger Counter).
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that in some respects, this action is a partner
to the previous item. He commented that currently, RTD uses
Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) to monitor passenger
boardings as well as on-time performance. He said that the
goal was to use the same APCs that are used on the fixed
route system, and it was determined that it would be more
beneficial and cost efficient to have RouteMatch update the
APCs. He noted that currently, only 42 light rail vehicles, or
24%, had passenger counters and that presented quite a
challenge in providing correct passenger totals. He explained
that with approval of this item, staff will be able to acquire
and supplement an APC project that is already on the books to
improve passenger counting and on-time performance of light
rail. He further added that staff wants to enter a sole source
contract so that it is identical to existing bus and rail light
counters.
Director Broom asked if this device can distinguish between
someone getting on or off a vehicle.
Mr. Farrington said yes.
Director Broom asked if on-time performance was scaled to
the number of passengers per vehicle.
Mr. Abel commented that RTD measures on-time performance
by vehicle on-time performance only.
Director Francone remarked that the Board just approved $1.8
million for the MDTs. She asked if there were left over funds
that were applied to this contract.
Mr. Abel said yes, there were funds left over from the original
contract.

Director Francone inquired how staff accurately calculates ontime performance for light rail since only a small percentage of
light rail vehicles have passenger counters.
Mr. Abel explained that there is a lot of math involved. He
remarked that information is communicated from service and
planning to light rail and collected to form a sample for on-time
performance.
Director Francone stated that it was an incredible amount of
work, and this purchase will improve that process.
Chair Hoy asked if the new devices would be more accurate,
and if so, would that make performance numbers increase or
decrease.
Mr. Abel stated that the new devices would allow staff to
measure on-time performance more accurately. He noted that
staff expects a change as they will have a more accurate
picture, but he could not say if it would go up or down.
Director Solano asked if staff would be able to compare
revenue per train with the new devices.
Mr. Abel commented that this hardware itself will do not do
that, as revenue comes in at the Ticket Vending Machines
(TVMs), but he said that staff would have a better
understanding of the ridership of each line.
Director Lubow inquired if every vehicle at RTD would be
equipped with this technology.
Mr. Abel stated that it is a desirable goal, but it will take time.
Director Tisdale asked if the $2.4 million for the project budget
will be offset by other funds.
Mr. Farrington noted that the total budget will not exceed
$2.4 million. He noted that there are different sources of
funds, and some will be used to maintain the equipment over
time.
Director Deadwyler inquired if this software could be used to
measure and compare boardings with the fares that are
collected.

Mr. Abel said that better passenger count information would
provide the finance department with better information to
allocate funds to the various lines.
Director Deadwyler asked if RTD could count boardings to see
that everyone on board had paid.
Mr. Abel stated that fare checks are performed through fare
inspections in Chief Grado’s group. He noted that over the
years, RTD has developed a more robust fare inspection
system as part of the smart card project.
Director Deadwyler commented that she would be voting in
favor of this item.
Director Walker added that this technology is not new to RTD,
it is just more of what is already out there.
Mr. Abel remarked that Director Walker was correct, and said
that this is an expansion of a current project.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska
REMTOE:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

 16th Street Mall Update (No Backup)
Mr. Abel stated that Jessie Carter and Susan Wood would assist with this
update.
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, stated that it is staffs goal to
provide the Board with periodic updates about the 16th street mall. She said
that the project kicked off on May 2nd, and the first of three workshops have
been held. She noted that General Manager Genova was at the kick-off
meeting and his opening remarks were well received. She stated that the
first workshop was a broad study that included the history of the mall and
tours of the mall. She noted that staff’s goal at this time is to be able to
utilize grant money that is being held until the project details are finalized.
She remarked that the next workshop will be September 6th – 8th, 2017 and

will focus on options and preferred alternatives and the third workshop will
delve into the preferred alternatives. She added that the goal is to finish the
environmental assessment by the end of 2017. She further noted that
upcoming public outreach events are scheduled for July 22nd, 2017, from
12:00-4:00 p.m. during the Denver Meet in the Street event, and on July
27th, 2017, RTD will host a public open house at 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.
in order to get additional public feedback.
Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager, commented that
this process has a lot of different viewpoints to sort through and
communicate to the public.
Mr. Abel explained that the purpose of the first workshop was to determine
what common elements existed. He said that the second workshop will
focus on the common elements as it is important to collectively understand
the agreed upon guiding principles, such as the 16th Street MallRide staying
on 16th Street.
Director Menten asked if it will be clear at the open house on the 27th that
maintenance costs are extreme and part of the mall is unsafe.
Ms. Wood said that the purpose being articulated concerns the very specific
maintenance that has to be performed.
Mr. Abel said that including maintenance costs in the purpose and needs
statement is an excellent recognition of what is important.
General Manager Genova commented that maintenance costs are a point he
makes every time he discusses the mall as granite pavers are not a material
that would be installed in contemporary designs. He added that he met with
the Denver Post and thought the conversation was very informative.
Director Francone said that she did not want granite pavers included in the
updated design and wanted to make sure that RTD only pays for the
roadway as that is what RTD is contractually obligated to do. She added
that there are a lot of pretty designs out there, but there are no costs
attributed to them. She further stated that if there is a cost consideration
with those designs, the public should know what it will cost, as well as the
maintenance costs.
Director Broom asked if this process examines the current public use of the
mall, and if it would also estimate its future use.
Mr. Abel said yes. He noted that part of the conversation staff has had
concerns the critical role the mall plays in RTD’s network. He stated that
utilization will continue, and mall shuttle services will be expanded. He

added that as rail services grow, staff will need to adjust service in order to
carry the expected number of people projected to use the mall.
Chair Hoy remarked that the Board will not approve the use of expensive
pavers in the future. He added that earlier in the day, he observed a heavy
garbage truck travel down 16th Street and said that RTD should not pay to
repair roadways that heavy garbage trucks are using.

• November 2017 Service Change
Mr. Abel said that staff is anticipating that the Civic Center Station will be
completed by the first of November. He stated that staff is evaluating the
need to do a run-board change because RTD’s scheduling systems contain
all of the downstream public information systems. He added that staff will
need to change all of the internal systems to address the re-opening of Civic
Center Station and are hopeful that they can do it with a simple back-end IT
change without having a new run-board.

• Lost Service Hours Update 7 18 17
Mr. Abel stated that the lost service hours update was included in the
Operations & Customer Service Committee packet. He said that in the
month of June, 203 hours were lost compared to 117 hours from June of
2016. He noted that year to date, 1,400 hours have been lost compared to
2,400 last year. He remarked that RTD is still showing improvement, but
the downside is that staff is still having to mandate operators. He
commented that RTD is 130 operators shy, but there has been improvement
from the customer perspective, and staff can demonstrate improvement
efforts.
Committee Chair Anderson asked staff to thank all of the operators who are
mandated and working so many overtime hours.
Mr. Abel added that staff would communicate the thanks and appreciation
from the Board for all of the operators who are working extra hours to
maintain service.

E. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

F. Next Meeting Date - August 8, 2017
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 6:26 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

