February 23, 2021
Special Board Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Good evening. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you. Good.
KATE WILLIAMS: I can hear you.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's Tuesday.
DOUG TISDALE: --hear you fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: I informed the entire RTD district of the fact that it was Tuesday a few
minutes ago.
MICHAEL FORD: There you go.
DOUG TISDALE: And we forgot to thank you for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. My family.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. It is 6:55 PM. I will now call to order Tuesday, February
23, the RTD Special Board Meeting to order. We are convened as of 6:55 PM Mountain
Daylight Time.
Again, I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak. The roll was called during the Board meeting. And I will note for the record,
though, that we do still have a quorum.
We have one lone recommended action this evening before us. And that is why we are
having this special Board meeting. If you recall last week, this item was not quite yet
ready for action during our committee meeting. So considering the timing of the proposed
extension, it is appropriate and necessary for this item to come before the Board at this
time. And it is the collective bargaining agreement extension.
Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve, Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have a movant, Director Tisdale, and a second of
Director Williams. I mean-- yeah, it's a second.
At this time, I'm going to ask those Directors or staff members who wish to speak to raise
your virtual hands and I will call on you in turn. For Directors or staff calling into the
meeting, if you wish to speak, please remember to press star 9. And you can toggle your
mute settings by pressing star 6. All right.

I would like to go ahead and turn this-- well, let's do this. I need to do a roll call vote. If
you will all unmute your phones, I would like to do in alphabetical order to move forwards
for discussion. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order. Are we voting on the motion for the
extension or is there going to be staff discussion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There will be staff discussion. This is just to move forward for
discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it? Yeah. So we'll do the vote to go into session and then
we'll have the staff report. Got it?
General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Hi there, Madam Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So we're
not going to be going into Executive Session for this discussion tonight. I think Michael
Ford was planning to do the staff presentation, and then it might make sense to turn it
over to the Directors for discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Got it. So with that, we can go ahead into the staff
discussion, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, let's have the staff presentation on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Well, with that, let's go into the staff discussion.
I'm going to turn this over to our General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It is my pleasure to introduce
Michael Ford, who has been working very diligently in conjunction with our union partners
as it relates to this collective bargaining agreement. So I would like to yield the floor to Mr.
Ford for him to introduce this item.
And I'd like to publicly thank him, along with our partners at the Amalgamated Transit
Union, for coming full circle and having the opportunity for us to be before you today to
put forward this extension for your consideration.
With that, Mr. Ford, please take it away.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. Thank you very much. This is Michael Ford, COO.
This is to move forward a recommendation action authorizing the General Manager and
CEO Debra A. Johnson to execute a one-year extension of the collective bargaining
agreement, the CBA, by, between the Regional Transportation District, RTD, and the
Amalgamated Transit Union 1001 ATU effective March 1, 2021 through February 28,
2022.

By way of background, during these unprecedented setting times and challenges, due to
COVID-19 staff has been working with the ATU to address the process for which
negotiations would be conducted prior to the expiration of the current CBA, which expires
February 28, 2021. As part of the discussions, there's a lot of uncertainty of RTD's
current financial, economic, and COVID-related circumstances.
It was mutually agreed between the ATU and RTD, and out of abundance of caution, we
wanted to extend the contract, the CBA, for one-year period. RTD is committed to
working cooperatively and collaborating with the ATU to enhance quality of life,
conditions, listening, responding and providing service offerings that best meet employees,
customers, stakeholders, and constituents.
Last week, we found out from the ATU, February 17, that the RTD received notification
that a tentative agreement was passed by the ATU, by their members, to extend the
current CBA from March 1, 2021 to February 28, 2022. Those provisions included
continuation of funding the pension at $6.2 million for the year, one-time lump sum net
payment of $500 per ATU employee, a continuation of longevity benefits and progression
of said employee. Not all employees would get this but they would get some kind of
stipend for the time and longevity they've stayed in their position. And lastly, 1%, no
percent wage increase for this contract was also included in the agreement.
So these are the elements that were part of the one-year extension. And we're looking for
your authorization tonight to approve it. And thank you, and I'm happy to answer any
other questions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir. Do we have any questions or comments
from Board members?
Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you Mr. Ford for undergoing
those negotiations, and GM Johnson and the entire team. I think that's excellent to hear
that we will be having that extension.
I'm curious with the discussions with 1001, did they bring anything to the table to say,
OK, well, we won't have any-- we won't ask for an increase this year, but in 2022, this is
something that we're looking for? Is there anything that they brought to the table kind of
like that, or was it just pretty much just dedicated to this year? Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, the COO. I think the issue was we were uncertain
about what the conditions would be. It was best to wait and see how conditions unfolded.
No real substantive discussions were had about wages at this point, because there was a
lot of uncertainty. And we felt it was best to wait until we could see a little bit more
clearer what the situation was going to be going forward.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director
Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, it does. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to point out that the article I read
in today's clips-- or I don't remember what media it was-- in quoting Mr. Lance
Longbottom, I just thought that there was definitely a spirit of understanding of RTD's
situation right now, that there wasn't a tendency to dig in their heels and that they really
were trying to work with the agency in a spirit of cooperation. And when I read that, I was
very, very pleased. They really did seem to want to come to the table and recognized our
plight and wanted to be a partner in this going forward.
So I think this is a really good move to approve this extension and then let Mr. Ford and
Ms. Johnson work their magic in the ensuing year. So thank you very much, everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-- Madam Chair, if I may address Director Catlin?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I want to say thank you very much, Director Catlin, for that
observation in sharing that. I do know that Mr. Ford, as well as other members of the
team, and I can speak personally for myself, has been working with the union and we
have been communicating. And both entities look forward to what lies ahead. We
recognize that we need to enhance our communication, and there's a willingness on both
sides. So I appreciate the acknowledgment from this body in relationship to that.
Because basically, the ultimate goal that we have here is moving people. And that doesn't
differ from ATU nor RTD. That's commonality. And I have to say this. This is very corny,
but you can't spell union without U and I. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
OK. Now I'm going to go through. I see no other hands up from any other Board members.
I'm going to look one more time. OK, I see none. So now-SHONTEL LEWIS: My hand is up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
SHONTEL LEWIS: My hand is up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. Go ahead. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I just-- I had two questions, well, two questions and a comment.
The first question is about the money that we received from the federal government. And I
wanted to know if any of those funds-- if we would have any of those funds available
after 2021, excuse me.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may take that question, Madam Chair, and address Director
Lewis.
As I referenced in my General Manager's report when we were talking about the revenue
rollup, considering that the rest of the money is specifically for transit operations, when
we came before this body in early February, Mr. McCloud, acting CFO, and I, we talked
about the six service changes, or run boards, as they're qualified here at this agency,
going forward. We're ensuring that we have monies allocated for a full rollup for revenue
service, due to the fact that we don't want to play with people's lives relative to not
knowing what lies ahead.
So when we look at the overarching cost to deliver revenue service, that's all
encompassed, not just for operators, but we're talking about for mechanics, for people
that working in dispatch, for rail laborers, all of that is encompassed in that element. And
so that's how we're apportioning that money going forward so we can ensure that we can
maintain the level of service, at least what we know it to be today, for the tomorrows to
come within the time frame within 2022 to cover those six service changes, or run
boards.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And the second comment that I had-- this will be maybe new for you,
General Manager Johnson, but not new, or maybe new to some of my colleagues here-one of the things that I hope we are able to do in the future is to provide some hazard pay
or operator pay for our front line staff. We've talked about it. We, as in me, when I'm
talking to myself, maybe, quite a bit. And so I'd love the opportunity for us to discuss that
in real terms and to figure out what that might look like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for that comment. I appreciate it and do have
some experience with that. So look forward to what lies ahead and having discussions
with Mr. Ford and what we may do. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
All right. Now I see no other hands. Going once, going twice? OK, here we go.
So with all of that information, I did get a movant of Director Tisdale and a second of
Director Williams. Are you two still OK with that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sorry. My cursor was on the other screen, as I was reading the
agenda. Yes, ma'am.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. So with that, I'm going to do the roll call for
the vote on the extension.
Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director-- or Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vise Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale is a yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. So 15 yes. It moves unanimously. Thank you.
OK. There is one discussion item this evening, which is the discussion item regarding the
commuter rail. And again, I'm going to ask our CEO and General Manager, Debra Johnson,
to lead this discussion. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And appreciate the opportunity
to have this discussion with you all this evening. Recognizing that we have had some

particularly hard pain points as relates to our commuter rail operations as of yet, and
you've heard me say ad nauseum that's important to be empathetic and understand those
pain points, we thought it appropriate here to have a dialogue about where we are and
what we're doing and how we're going to create a path forward in reference to mitigating
aspects while ensuring that we are operating a safe transit mode.
And so with that as a backdrop, I'm going to yield the floor to Michael Ford. And he is he
and his team will lead the discussion to bring everybody up to speed on what's been
happening on our commuter rail lines, and then more so share with you all our intent to
have some virtual listening sessions with our customers and residents that reside along
those rail lines that have had some impacts as of late in reference to our quiet zones or
lack thereof.
So with that, Mr. Ford, I will turn it over to you. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. You can put up the presentation. We'll get started. OK, you
can advance it. Thank you, John.
So what I wanted to talk about is an overview of our commuter rail operations. Just to
give some context, we have four lines, the A, B, G, and N, utilizing the same vehicles,
systems, and infrastructure components. The Hyundai-Rotem EMU commuter rail cars are
part of that. The train management dispatch system, also known as the TMDs, supported
by Wabtec, the positive train control, known as PTC, and then the inoperable electronic
train management system, which is also supported by Wabtec. Transaction power
management systems, the TPMS, also supported by Wabtec. And then some of the other
things that are rounded out, the 25kVA overhead contact system, better known as the
OCS electric power. The high level boarding platforms to meet ADA compliance, wireless
and conventional crossing technology, and the quiet zones. So you can advance that.
Thank you. Next slide, please.
So what I wanted to do is to give you a little bit of an overview of RTD, the N Line railroad
responsibilities maintained, operated, and dispatched by RTD's Operations Team. The
responsibilities include dispatch N Line operations from Park Avenue/Wewatta overpass
bridge to 124th station, inspection and maintenance of all rail infrastructure, and cleaning
of our vehicles, contract/coordinate with suppliers of the TMDs and of positive train
control performance for the N Line. So this kind of runs out our responsibilities for the N
line. Next slide, please.
Our partners with DTO/DTP railroad responsibilities include or encompass the A, B, and G
lines. And they are maintained, operated, and dispatched by Denver Transit Partner
operators. And those responsibilities include inspections of the maintenance of the all rail
infrastructure, dispatching, including N Line and Amtrak in Denver Union Station, known

as the DUS territories. There are 66 commuter rail cars that are involved, and commuter
rail maintenance facilities, better known as the CRMF. Next slide.
And then we have our suppliers and their responsibilities through Wabtec. They include
freight and passenger supplier/vendor, positive train control and operable electronic train
management systems, train management dispatch systems, and traction power
management systems. Next slide.
So a lot of questions have come up about what are quiet zones. And I want to just take a
little moment to kind of go through this, because there are issues that come up from time
to time about this. And it's regularly rules allowing for no horn use by train operators
under normal operating conditions. So we really don't want to have to use them. But there
are exceptions. If our positive train control on the train doesn't initiate or drops during the
trip, the FRA requires the train operator to sound horns at crossings or adhere to the
requirements spelled out in FRA 49 CFR 222.23. So we have to adhere to that.
And there are other exceptions that we also have to be noteworthy about. Any other
provision of this part, a locomotive engineer must sound a locomotive horn to provide a
warning to animals, vehicle operators, pedestrian, trespassers, or crews on other trains in
emergency situations if, in the locomotive engineer's sole judgment, such action is
appropriate in order to prevent imminent injury, death, or property damage.
And one other caveat I'd like to point out is when active grade crossing warning devices
have malfunctioned and the use of the horn is required by specific sections of this chapter.
So again, I just wanted to take some time to emphasize why we have to use horns when
we prefer not to, but there are exceptions to that rule and we have to exercise that when
these conditions arise. Next slide, please.
What I wanted to also do is provide some overall metrics of our performance, the N Line
performance, and I took November, December, and January. Service reliability or
availability was at 100%, meaning that we had vehicles available. Our on-time
performance was about 83.5% for November. December rounded out at 93.2% for
service availability, with an on-time performance of 83.6%. In January, our service
availability was at 96.2% and a on-time performance of 88.1%.
I just bring this up, despite some of the things that we've had happen, our on-time
performance has been relatively good, and our service availability. We can always do
better, but I wanted to give some context to that. Next slide.
The EAGLE project, which also incorporates A, B, and G Lines, are performed by our
DTO/DTP, November, you see 95% serviceable availability with a 90% on-time
performance. December, 97.3%, on-time performance at 96.7%. And then in January, our
service availability was at 98.6%, with an on-time performance of 96.5%. Next slide.

So we have got current challenges. No secret. And over the course of December, January,
and part of February, we've had, in December, for the N Line, 17 days with some issues,
January at 10 days, and as of February 14, that was the last date we marked for February
with two days of issues. On the EAGLE Line, you can see nine days of issues for
December, six days on January, and as of the 14th of February, five days with issues.
So improvements and opportunities. We take these concerns very seriously. And with our
positive train control and our TMDS functionality, we've identified root causes and do the
analysis to resolve the problem. So I want to emphasize that again, we really want to get
to the gnat's eyebrow of the concern, to make sure that we are understanding the issues,
doing the analysis to resolve the issues. We've also worked to develop supplier operation
agreements to have readiness and availability of resources so they can respond quickly.
The other thing that we've really worked towards is RTD and DTO/DTP and Wabtec are
interfaced to enhance ongoing communications, challenges, establishing protocols,
establishing check and balances to ensure that we know what's going on and we can
make sure that we have SOPs and other things in place to ensure that we learn from our
mistakes, know what we can do to expedite issues, and, more importantly, mitigate the
issues so they don't come back.
The other thing that we focus on is infrastructure performance, continued quality control
assurances to make sure that we audit for what we know we need to look at and make
sure that we do the necessary training to help us move forward. Next slide, please.
So more recently we met with Wabtec executives and staff on February 12 to work
towards positive resolution. They are currently on-site responding to issues that have
arised and we're working very well to ensure a maintenance agreement is expedited to
help with response times and to mitigate future issues. So this is currently happening right
now. Again, we will continue to meet, work through issues to minimize these problems,
again, getting at the root causes so we don't have these continued escalations. Next slide.
So one of the major focuses, obviously, with our stakeholders, our customers, our
constituents, is to ensure that we have virtual quiet zone and making sure that we
communicate, we use various ways of communicating through our emails, through our
rider alerts. But also we want to be out where the people are. So A Line, there will be
some discussions on Wednesday, March 3, noon to 1:00 PM. The B and G Lines on
Thursday, March 4, noon to 1:00 PM, and then the N Line, March 5 from noon to 1:00, to
go over, to educate our public, and to give them some understanding and reassurance that
we're doing everything we can to mitigate these issues and concerns.
And I think we'll continue to monitor this. But I just wanted to provide some context to
the concerns that have happened over the last couple months so that you know that we're

handling this, we feel confident about the relationships between our folks with Wabtec
and also DTO/DTP, and we're really working together to minimize these issues when they
arise.
So with that, I'm happy to take questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any questions or comments from Board members?
Hold on. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you so much. I can't find my hand sometimes. I think it
matters if you've got the full screen enabled or not.
So thank you all, first of all, for this really good presentation and some data, the work that
you're doing and so forth. I just, I really appreciate that.
And congratulations, too, on the improvement in the N Line. I remember when the G Line
was getting going, there was just a few months where they kind of had to work out the
routine and so forth. So thanks for that.
I'm going to talk about the G Line specifically. First of all, I think Doug Allen's listening in,
I just want to say that you could see in the statistics that we had great availability. The
on-time performance is there. The vehicles are clean. And the operators and the TSO
personnel, they're always helpful and really on point on things. So I just wanted to start
with that really good stuff.
The thing that we have, the only thing that we have, is the train horn noise. And so thank
you for the recognition and the willingness to work on that. I want to give a little bit of a-I want to focus on one piece of it, if I can.
First of all, you highlighted it. But in my experience, the vast majority of the train horns are
when the PTC is not activated. So thank you for that. When people don't know that,
they're inclined to kind of blame the operator, assuming that the operator is exerting their
discretion at O dark early in the morning to ring those horns.
The span I'm talking about is mainly from Lowell Boulevard all the way west, to the end of
line. And the thing I want to focus on is the trains going out for the first time in the
morning, it takes three trains to get into service. I mean, to run that half hourly service, it
takes three trains in service. And it's not-- it's sometimes the case, it's not terribly unusual
for those trains to come out west without PTC activated, for whatever reason. You know
that's the case because you can hear them ring the bells, or-- excuse me, sound the horns- at every single intersection.
Between the Old Town Arvada and the Arvada Ridge station, there are six at-grade
crossings. And anybody in that stretch can pretty much hear the trains at every one. Two
long, one short, one long. They're about 105 decibels. They go through. They barely finish
with one and they start the next one.

So the thing I'd like to focus on, and just make sure that it's something that you, Michael
Ford, and Dave Jensen and so forth, are looking at, is that very first train coming through.
Because sometimes-- yesterday was a case-- at 3:45 AM, the train came out and initialized
at Ward Road. No problems for the rest of the day. Sometimes it's one train. Sometimes
it's all three getting into service. They just come out without being initialized.
And so if you can focus on that early morning before we're in service, getting them out
there, that would just do tremendous things for the people along the corridor who, they're
hearing, at 3:45 in the morning, some of them 60 or 100 feet from their bedroom
windows, that train going through, two long, one short, one long, two long, one short,
one long and so forth. So if you can just really focus on that piece, I can't tell you what an
improvement that would make in the quality of life for people along the corridor. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks, Madam Chair. Michael, thank you for the presentation. I think
it's good to have this reminder on technologies and the alphabet soup of acronyms. It
helps us as we go out and meet with our constituents as well. And we've got some
meetings coming up later in the week where these discussions would happen.
I know this is probably an unfair question for you or for Dave Jensen. But on the N Line,
we've got this hopeful trend in February going with only two issues. Do you think we are
moving past some of the newness and some of the situations with the N Line being
unique, in that it's operated by us and not our contractor? Do you have a sense for that?
And I guess I'm putting you on the spot. So you don't have to answer that if you don't
feel like you would like to. But if Ms. Johnson or Mr. Jensen would like to chime in, that
would be great.
And that's the only question I have, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Really, I'll have the team speak to this, recognizing that we are
working through some challenges as you bring any system into the main line, recognizing
that this had just come forward in September, recognizing the technologies and the
sharing of the tracks, and all these other aspects that come into play. I think we'd be
remiss to opine, at this juncture, whether or not we anticipated getting better. But I think
the path forward, as the team has outlined, is going to put us on the right track, no pun
intended. But with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Jensen and Mr. Ford to address more
appropriately.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

MICHAEL FORD: Yes. And I'll turn it over to Dave, but I just would to say that obviously,
this is a new line. We have-- this is Michael Ford, COO-- a new line. There are some new
operators on the line as well. So the training, along with some of the technology, creates
some of the issue. I think we're getting better. We're improving. We're continuing to be
diligent about that.
With that, I'll turn it over to Mr. Jensen, if he has any comments to further.
DAVE JENSEN: Sure, if I may. This is Dave Jensen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: So Director Whitmore, there's really not much more for me to add than
what's already been said. I would say that I heard your question is not necessarily have
we turned the corner yet, but are we seeing improvements. And so there's really two
elements that we're evaluating. One is the operational element. And I think clearly, we're
seeing improvement and clearly we're learning. And we can expect that to continue.
From an operational standpoint, one of the things that we'll probably have to continue
with for a while is our operating staff. So we've got a train operator class in session right
now. We're hiring for another train operator class shortly. So when that group comes out,
they'll have that same learning curve. And the efforts on our part will be to make sure that
they're not all out at the same time, once they qualify, so that we can provide the best
service possible. And the controllers are doing better and the maintenance staff, as we're
learning that system better. So yes, we're moving in the right direction there.
The other issue really is the issue at hand, and that's the technology. So I can't-- I'm
reluctant to say, yes, we've turned the corner on that. What I am willing to say, though, is
that Wabtec has been very responsive, as is evidenced by them being on site now. When
we had our meeting with them, their staff indicated that they would make this the highest
priority, and every indication to this point is that they have.
And if I could add one more thing, maybe, to that, it's really the behind the scenes work
that's going on. I've got two staff members asked to join us this evening. And I don't
know that they'll have an opportunity to speak. But I know that they're working with
Wabtec. They're working, if not daily, for sure weekly, usually two times a week. And so
they're in constant communication. And we have our staff which is learning that PTC
element as well and trying to identify where these problems are.
Like Director Cook mentioned, that first train in the morning on the G Line, as soon as we
can start identifying certain trains, certain times, certain locations, certain things, we can
help them start pin down what some of those issues might be.

So we're working diligently on it. We expect there to be improvement. We are seeing
responsiveness from the contractor, or from a vendor, on that. So I think things are
looking forward. But I wouldn't say we're out of the woods yet.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, and I think that there is some realization with the customers that
use the N Line of the newness of the line. And you know, sometimes you do have to work
the kinks out.
I appreciate your input on Wabtec. That was probably going to be one of Vince's
questions that's upcoming. And that's good to hear.
I do want to say, I really appreciate the communications that has been amped up for those
of us up north when we do have a two-or three-day problem in a row. Dave and Michael
been great about that, and we appreciate that.
But on that note-- and Vince maybe has a little more of an input from constituents,
because I'm a little further removed from where I live to the N Line-- but I have not
received a plethora of complaints. I've got a few. But it's not been overwhelming by any
means, which maybe is an indication of the patience of our riders on that line.
So I thank you for helping with the communications. And I'll yield my time to my
neighboring Board member, I think who's next in line, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, he is. Secretary Buzek, you have the floor, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I want to start by thanking Mr. Ford and Mr.
Jensen for meeting with Director Whitmore and I to talk about some of these issues as
they were cropping up. You know, we had a period there with the N Line where we had
three days in a row of bus bridges. And boy, oh, boy, there's nothing that kills people's
enthusiasm than something like that.
And I've had a number of complaints. Not a significant amount. But the complaints I've
had are disheartening, in that people are saying, I was excited about the N Line, I stopped
taking the 120X bus downtown and taking the N Line. I'm going back to the bus. So
that's hard to hear.
And it always seems when Wabtec upgrades their software, problems happen. And it's
happened on the EAGLE line for years. They seem to be the weak link in the system. And I
just can't get how after all these years, it's still an issue. That was just a comment. I don't
need a response.
But online performance of the N Line, I'll have to take exception with Mr. Ford. It's pretty
poor compared to EAGLE. And that's one of the problems that people keep calling me
about. You drop one run, OK. You drop two runs, now you're waiting an hour for your
next train. And it really becomes unreliable.

I would love to see-- and as Director Cook alluded to the issue with the horns-- it's really a
problem for people. And you can subscribe to rider alerts on RTD. And if there's a
problem, a late train or a dropped run, or whatever it is, you'll get a rider alert that says
that's happening. And information is good, I think. And I would love to see rider alerts that
say, PTC is down, horns will sound.
People can see that. People all along the corridor can subscribe and see, oh, that's why
the horns are sounding, it's the PTC system, or whatever that means, whatever it means,
something's going on, and we're working on it. So I think getting information out there on
a rider alert system, if it's possible, I'd love to see that.
Now does RTD contract directly with Wabtec for its servers on the N Line, or do we have
some kind of relationship through DTO by which we use Wabtec? Does anyone know?
DAVE JENSEN: Madam Chair, if I may. This is Dave Jensen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: We do not have to go through DTO. Wabtec comes in that way to us.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good. That's good. And I'm glad to hear they're being responsive. And
hopefully, they'll continue to do so and we'll keep working these kinks out.
And my final comment will be ON the listening sessions that are coming up. And I want to
ensure that we are publicizing these broadly and widely, in every manner we possibly can,
to get the word out that people can get involved in this. So other than that, I will yield the
floor to the next speaker. Thanks so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I see no other Board members for a comment or
question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I see Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Bouquet. I really appreciate that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know why I'm not seeing your hand, Director Lewis, at
all. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few comments and a few questions.
And it's specific to the University of Colorado A Line. This is probably not surprising, but
since I've been on the Board this has been an ongoing concern that I've heard from a
number of constituents, specifically regarding the horns. And we've made commitments
as an agency that we would proactively communicate to our constituents when the horns
might sound, understanding that we might not know in advance, but if those horns were
going to sound for a long period of time, then we would put that information out. And
unfortunately, we haven't done that.

And so the constituencies along the University of Colorado A Line, in that corridor, have
been really, really frustrated with RTD and have lost faith in RTD and our ability to move
forward and to rectify this issue. And so that that's the first.
I would really-- we've had lots of conversations. I know we're having these stakeholder
meetings. But I would really like to have a plan that I know that I can communicate out to
my constituents and that they can count on when the train horns are going to sound for
an extended amount of time. Because that keeps popping up and we're not adhering to
that.
Like Director Cook, what we hear most often is the horns are sounding in Central Park and
also sounding at the Dahlia Station-- or Dahlia crossing. And so that's, I think that's good
information for us to have.
I actually don't live too close to the trains, but I can hear them and I'm aware of them,
because I know that I'm going to get a slew of emails and phone calls from constituents
when I hear them, because they get pretty frustrated.
I think one of the things that I've asked of staff is if we can put forth where it is that
we're going, where it is that we've been, and where it is that we are now. And I think that
would be really helpful because folks don't know. I know you all give a-- and I said, we
should go out to our communities and say, hey, quiet zones aren't really quiet, right. And
here are some circumstances in which quiet zones might not be quiet. And I think people
can accept that pretty generally, unless we aren't able to communicate that information
out proactively and they're just hearing horns blare for a prolonged amount of time.
I have a lot to say on this topic, because this is probably the concern that I hear most
often from my constituents. The emails that I get most often, the phone calls, the text
messages, are always often about the horns. And I would really like us to put a plan
forward that folks along these corridors can really believe in and start to believe in RTD
again and our ability to operate this system in the way in which we told them we would.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. This is Michael Ford, COO. I'm hearing you loud and clear. I think
we can take a lot of the information you provided tonight and the concerns that other
Board members have expressed and really see what we can do to help improve the
communication, obviously reduce the train horns, but there are circumstances where they
are going to sound because of other extenuating circumstances.
But I think this has given us some good insight to the concerns that you're raising and
others. And I think we can come back with a more robust plan and an enhanced
communication opportunity to our customers, constituents, and stakeholders. So I'm

happy to share that in upcoming Board meetings on what changes we've been able to
make.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Michael, Mr. Ford. I really appreciate that. And I do
think that it's really about the communication. The constituents that I've talked to, at
least, have understood that the train horns will blow from time to time. And that could be
for a myriad of reasons, as you pointed out in our presentation. But I think it's when it's
the prolonged and there's no explanation of any sort of when it begins, when it's going to
end, how long it's going to happen. And I empathize with that.
And so I really appreciate this presentation. I appreciate your work on this. I appreciate
that we're going to have public meetings. I just have one request is we do have one
meeting that's happening between noon and 1:00. And I would just like us to see-- I'd
love, as a Director, to see a little variety in that. So the noon to 1:00 hour might be
convenient for some communities, and maybe the later hours in the evening might be
better for other communities.
And so just to offer that variety, as well as communication in other languages, at least
Spanish, at the very least. Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there all your questions, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I see no one else in the queue. Is there anyone else
that would like to make a comment or a question? OK. Seeing none, thank you for that
presentation. And thank you, Directors, for those questions and those comments.
We're now to Other Matters. Are there any other matters to come before the Board this
evening? Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Just a quick report on the Accountability
Committee. The committee is picking up speed, I would say, at this point, after taking
some time to sort of organize early on. March 1 at 4:00 PM, there will be a governance
subcommittee that all of the committee members, all of the subcommittees, are invited to
attend. And they'll be looking at partnerships and talking about some of the partnerships.
And they're also going to be looking at this idea of local service councils. You will find that
of interest. I believe that we're setting a study session for the Board on March 9 to
discuss some of these issues.
The Accountability Committee bill is still in drafting. We had hoped maybe to have it
tonight for the Special Board Meeting. But it's still in drafting. We don't yet know when it
will be introduced. But once we have the language, once it's introduced, it will come back
to the Board.

And I think that's all I have. If you have any comments, questions about it, feel free to
contact Director Whitmore or me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just a qualifying statement. The session on the 9th is basically for
RTD just in a general sense to talk about what our path forward is with the road to
recovery. So recognizing it's not specific to the Accountability Committee. So I just
wanted to qualify that, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any other new business to come before, other
matters to come before the Board?
OK. Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn this Special Board Meeting. Do I hear a
movant?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved, Guissinger.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that Director Tisdale second? Or Whitmore?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale got it, I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any opposition to adjourning?
All right. Hearing none, I am calling the meeting, 7:43 PM. I want to thank you all for
joining us. Stay safe and have a pleasant evening. Good night, everybody.
BOBBY DISHELL: Good night.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, everyone.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Good night, everybody.

