2022-01-11
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
TROY WHITMORE: Begin?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yeah, we're-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
TROY WHITMORE: --evening, everyone, and welcome to the RTD Planning-- or Finance and Planning
Committee meeting. We will now come to order, and we are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight
Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
I'm Troy Whitmore, Treasurer of the Board of Directors, and I'll be chairing the beginning stages of this
meeting. I'd like to thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current
circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of
Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit
rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
you proceed to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee. Please indicate that you are here. First, Director Bob
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Shelley Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Erik Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Here. Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: And I'm Troy Whitmore, and I am present as well. Additionally, we have three Board
meetings-- or Board members that have joined us that are not on the committee and not voting members
of the committee. They are Chair Vince Buzek, Kate Williams, and Angie Rivera-Malpiede.
At RTD, safety is paramount. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. As the reminder,
the Transit Security Administration-- TSA-- has extended the federal mask requirement for public
transportation until March 18th of 2022. The federal mask requirement states and individuals must wear a
face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation, to include airports and aircraft, train
stations, trains and bus stops, and buses.
So the first item on the agenda this evening is a selection of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair. As
discussed by the Executive Committee last week, for just this first meeting, I will facilitate the election, and
once both seats are filled, turn over the meeting to the new Committee Chair. Unlike the Executive
Committee election process, which uses secret ballots, for the election of Board officers for committee
leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion, and vote by the full
committee.
We will begin with the selection of the Chair and then Vice Chair. We will allow up to three minutes for
those Board members who nominate a candidate. Those seconding nominations as well, if there are any.
And any other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates can speak.
I will then call for a vote, and the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only one Director is
nominated, the committee may proceed by acclimation, and that Director will be appointed Chair. All right,
so I will start by asking for nominations for Committee Chair. Director Catlin. You're muted. There you go.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I would like to nominate Director Erik Davidson for the
position of Chair of this Finance Committee. He has served as the Vice Chair of the Finance
Administration and Audit Committee for the past year. And I have enjoyed working with Erik and have
appreciated his great ideas and knowledge.
As Vice Chair of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee, he worked collaboratively with me and
with the committee, with the CEO and General Manager, and with other members of staff to begin to
address RTD's internal audit issues. He's been serving on the Re-imagine RTD Advisory Committee for
the past year. And he has regularly attended all RTD Board meetings, all RTD Committee meetings on
which he served, and numerous community and stakeholder-hosted meetings.

Prior to RTD, he had formed and led a coalition of citizens in the City and County of Broomfield that
worked with city and county officials to develop an accurate financial evaluation of the working and
mineral interests of a major oil and gas operation. I believe he was asked to do so by then-Mayor Pat
Quinn. He has vast business experience that includes being a founder, employee, advisor, and investor in
a variety of businesses, including serving in C-suite roles. So with that, Mr. Acting Chair, I would like to
nominate Erik Davidson. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Any seconds or further discussion on the candidacy of
Director Davidson? Are there other nomination-- oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, Director Guissinger. You're
muted, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I would just be happy to second that nomination. I work with Erik. I talk with
him often since we both represent parts of Boulder County and areas up here. He's so smart and so
focused on the financial pieces that-- in whatever he's working on, his jobs and at RTD. So I think he'd be
a great Chair.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. All right, are there any other nominations for the role
of Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee? Going once. Going twice.
It appears there are no other nominees. Motion to proclaim Erik Davidson Chair of the committee by
acclamation would be in order, if someone would do that duty, please.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: Director Broom.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
TROY WHITMORE: And I believe we had Director Dishell on the second. Thank you very much. All right,
all those in favor of appointing Erik Davidson as the Chair of the Finance and Planning Commission,
please say, "Aye."
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
All right. Any opposed? Motion carried. And congratulations, Erik Davidson. Director Davidson will be our
new Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee.
All right, one more chore for me before I hand it over, Eric. So get your gavel warmed up, your vocal
cords ready to go. All right?
All right, the next item of business is the nomination and election of the Vice Chair of the Finance and
Planning Committee. Do I have any nominations? Director Davidson. Sorry, I couldn't see your hand.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. And thank you, everybody. Appreciate it.

I would like to nominate First Chair, Director Peggy Catlin. And just give you a little bit of background as
to why. She has served RTD as the Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee for one
year, in 2021, during which time I had the pleasure of working very closely with her. She also had served
as the First Vice Chair for the Board of Directors for two terms, in 2019 and 2020. She also was Chair of
the GMOC and the Executive Search Committee to find a new General Manager and CEO, which I think
we all agree was a success.
In addition to that, Peggy has a strong understanding of public sector finance. Aside from her work here
at RTD, Peggy also served as the acting CFO for CDOT for six months during a transitionary period,
something that I know and can personally attest has certainly served her well in her time here. She
presented the agency's budget to the Joint Budget Committee of the Colorado General Assembly.
I can tell everybody from having the pleasure of working carefully and closely with her that she cares very
deeply about the success of this agency and ensuring that we'll make lives better through connections,
not just now, but sustainably and in perpetuity, which I think is very important and material to this
committee. I've had the opportunity to work with her and really admire her pragmatism and collaborative
spirit. I really love that Peggy serves in leadership in critical roles because she's asked by others to serve,
and she willingly rises to those occasions selflessly. I know that that's something we all respect. Thank
you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Is there a second to the nomination, or any other
comments? All right, seeing none.
Are there other nominations for the role of Vice Chair of the Finance and Planning committee? One more
time. Other nominees? OK, apparently not. So a motion to proclaim Director Catlin as Vice Chair by
acclamation would be in order.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
All right. I heard Director Dishell as the movement and Director Guissinger as the second. Is that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, thank you. All those in favor of the election of Peggy Catlin for the position of
Vice Chair, please say, "Aye."
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Aye.
TROY WHITMORE: Oppose, no. Motion carried. And congratulations, Director Catlin, on your second
major role here for 2002 at RTD. So with that, I do appreciate your indulgence in me limping through this
meeting. And I am very pleased to turn it over the rest of the meeting duties over to Chair Erik Davidson.
Congratulations to you, Director Davidson, and Director Catlin as well. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. Much appreciated. And Thank you very much to the
committee here. It's an honor. I'll do my best. So here we go.
We're going to now move into the public comment section of our meeting. This public comment period is
a new addition to our committee agendas. And I would like to open it to anyone who would like to address
the committee.
If you would like to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6
to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will have the opportunity to
speak this-- and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for this committee, please email those materials to the Board office
at the following email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During his time, the committee will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Speakers, please refrain from any profane or obscene speech. Please direct your comments to the
committee as a whole and please refrain from any personal attacks Ms. McManus or Tai-Shrae. would
you mind seeing if we have anybody in the queue? Not seeing anyone.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no one in the queue from the attendee side that wishes to speak.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public comment
period at this time.
We'll now move into another new section of our agenda. This is information for external entities. This
agenda is also new to the committee outline. In the future, if the committee has outside presenters or
speakers, they will fall under this category and can address the committee at the beginning of the meeting
instead of at the end. With the process improvement change that we've made, the committee will be more
thoughtful and considerate of any outside presenter's time.
Moving into our recommended actions. We have one recommended action this evening on the agenda.
Our first recommended action is the rail repair budget transfer. Before getting into discussion or
presentation, do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved, Director Broom.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom as the mover.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second. Director Catlin.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin. Thank you. At this time, I'd like to ask staff to present any pertinent
information regarding the action, noting that the action was included in the packet. Directors had time to
ask questions of staff offline. Please raise your virtual hand and wait to be recognized to speak after the
presentation, and please state your name for the record each time that you speak.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Well,
congratulations to you, Mr Chair, as well as Vice Chair Catlin. Look forward to working with you,
continuing our work together.
This action item seeks Board approval to do a budget transfer of $589,000 from the unrestricted fund to
the 20th and Welton project. This project has been completed. In 2021-- the project was actually
completed in 2021.
But during 2021, the initial project at 20th and Welton was to replace rail in the downtown loop area. That
project's scope expanded due to a fire and electric volt vault, as well as damage to some cabling that
supplies the electricity to the rail system. That scope expanded, went through the Change Control Board.
And at the time, in 2021, when that scope expanded, the Change Control Board identified funding to
finance these repairs, including a CDOT FASTER grant. It was later determined that the project itself was
not eligible under this FASTER grant. And normally, we would carry funds forward in the budget
appropriation process, year over year in the fiscal year.
We did not do that, and are asking the Board to do a budget transfer. That funding actually fell into the
unrestricted fund that was available, the $589,000. We're simply asking the Board to do a fund swap by
moving that funding up back out of the unrestricted fund to be available for this project. And that
concludes my remarks, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Appreciate it. And likewise, look forward to continuing to
work together.
At this time, I'll ask those Directors who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands, and I'll call on you in
turn. I don't believe we have any Directors calling into the meeting. But if we do, you can press star 9 to
speak. Any questions?
Thank you. Given that we've got no questions or discussion, I'm going to go ahead and ask if we have the
mover as Director Broom, the second as Director Catlin. Are there any no votes on this action? All right,
with 7 ayes, 0 nos, and 0 abstentions, the motion passes.
We will now move into the discussion items portion. There are no discussion items tonight. So we'll move
on to other matters. Are there any other matters that Directors would like to raise at this time?
Well, how about that? Oh, here we go. All right. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Davidson. Just as of late, given certain circumstances that have
happened across the state, I know that we have had a number of individuals impacted by a lack of

insurance or not updating their insurance frequently enough to ensure the payout is there. I know that in
some circumstances, our agency is self-insured. But I think it would be prudent to, where we aren't selfinsured, make sure that our insurance matches the value of the asset each year, and keep making sure
that's updated. Doesn't need to be now, unless there's a quick response. But I just would appreciate an
update, knowing that that process is in place for us to continue to have updated insurance values so that
in the case of an emergency, we would be able to make a full claim for the value of our assets.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. CEO and General Manager Johnson, did you want to
respond to that at all?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Dishell, for posing
that question.
Each year, on an annual basis, we look at our assets and make a determination in recognizing we want to
minimize risks to the enterprise. That has been done. General Counsel Snyder, under her auspices, with
her risk management team, we do look at that. So I would ask Ms. Snyder to comment briefly, because I
believe that will address the question that Director Dishell has put forward.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, CEO and GM Johnson. Mr Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So yes, our Risk Manager is in constant
assessment of all of our property and all of our assets. We are right in the middle of renewing our
property insurance. And so that is something that we are assessing on a continuous basis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. And thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Dishell, that-- great.
See a thumbs up. Excellent.
Any other matters to come before the committee this evening? All right. Very short meeting.
Thank you, everybody. Appreciate the time here. Our next meeting date will be Tuesday, February 8,
2022. With no other discussion items, the meeting will be adjourned at 5:50 PM Mountain time. Thank
you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Good night.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Good night, everybody.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Goodnight.

