Dec 4 2018 0530 PM Government Relations
Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
PAUL SOLANO: ...8. December 4, 2018. First, we'll start with the local update. I imagine Roger
is going to give that update.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yes, sir. Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: This is CRL. It's all yours.
ROGER SHERMAN: Good evening. I don't really have anything that wasn't in my report. I
mean, if you look at the report, you know, I think probably the most significant, of course, is the
November election results. We did-- we got wrapped up in the big elections. But we did have
several new council members, a couple new mayors-- two new mayors in our district.
So we've reached out to them, as we do following each election. But if any of you would like to
have meetings or sit down with any of the new council members or mayors, and we can help
facilitate that, please let me know.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Any questions for Roger? I see none. We'll go onto state update.
Brandeberry~McKenna.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Hi. Like Roger, everything-- I don't have a whole lot to add that's
not in my report. What I will say is I wanted to thank Director Solano, and Bill, and Sherry and
folks. We did do a tour of the southeast line with some of the newly elected legislators. And I
think it was very successful.
And we were really happy with the turnout, not only that the legislators-- also, they had brought
some of their staff. And I think that was really important. So I just wanted to thank everyone for
their time for that.
Happy to answer any questions. We have sent out the committee assignments to you all.
Highlights of that are we have two great Chairs of the Transportation Committee that we'll get to
work with-- Senator Faith Winter in the Senate and Representative Matt Gray. Both are elected
officials from the RTD district, and they're very familiar with transportation issues. And I think
they will be lovely to work with so.
Happy to answer any questions.
PAUL SOLANO: I see no questions. Thank you for that update. Thanks for that tour. OK. Now
we have the federal update. Of course, Squire Patton Boggs featuring Mike Dino. Saved the best
for last, huh?

MIKE DINO: Well, Director Solano, I thank you very much. I appreciate that. But much more
distinguished people from my firm are here this evening.
PAUL SOLANO: Oh, OK.
MIKE DINO: And I'm going to turn it over to Patty Doersch to give an update. I think you were
received our slide deck. We usually use this time of the year-- the first meeting in December-- to
give you a more lengthy federal overview in plans for next year. But since this meeting's gone on
for a while, we'll give you a very succinct overview. Patty is prepared to do that.
PAUL SOLANO: Thanks for waiting patiently, by the way.
PATTY DOERSCH: Our pleasure. First of all, I want to say, echoing Mike's comments, it's a
pleasure to be here. We very much look forward to seeing you again in March.
A lot happened in the midterm elections, as you know. A lot of changes in-- particularly on the
House side-- where the majority has shifted. And the House is an absolute majority rule body. So
that would be significant changes. Change mean opportunity. And nowhere right now do we
think there is greater opportunity than in transportation infrastructure.
So we're going to pivot quickly to a couple of few things. And then we'll give you-- we had a
particularly insightful discussion with the incoming chairman, Peter DeFazio, coming into now
chair House Transportation Committee. I know Director Catlin has worked with him before. He
has been on this committee for 30 years. He is dedicated to transportation. So we'll have some of
his very helpful insights.
I do, though, want to recognize you, Chair Solano, and Directors Sisk, Hoy, Archuleta,
Anderson, and Deadwyler, as you conclude your terms here. Really, it's been an enormous
pleasure to work with all of you. And Chuck, I can't believe you're leaving before you have to.
It's breaking my heart. But very pleased to be here before you again, and welcome this
opportunity a lot.
I want to turn it over to one of my dearest colleagues who supports me with every transit agency
client, it's Tim Drake.
TIM DRAKE: My name is Tim Drake. I'm an associate at Squire Patton Boggs. I've had the
opportunity and joy of working with RTD for the last three years. I very much enjoy that.
Real briefly, we want to talk about a few of the successes that RTD has had in the last year. This
includes securing Congress awarding $63.3 million for the last portion of the Eagle Project
FFGA (Full Funding Grant Agreement) and the FY 2018 Transportation, Housing, and Urban
Development appropriations bill.
Additionally, two recent bus grants totaling $11 million from the FGA, as well as an outstanding
build grant application, which we expect the Department of Transportation to decide on within
the next two weeks or so.

I believe Ann is going to give an update on FY 2019 appropriations.
ANNE MIANO: My name is Anne Miano. And again, I just want to also thank all the board
members who are not going to be coming back in January. It has really been a pleasure working
with everyone on this board. And we will miss a lot of familiar faces who have been really a joy
to work with. So I wish you all-- really a good year ahead.
And as far as appropriations, I think you know Congress hasn't gotten their work done as usual.
There's a number of funding bills that have not been completed. And there's a number that have
been completed.
Transportation funding bill remains uncompleted. But out of the 12 appropriations bills, five
have passed. And that includes about 75% of the domestic discretionary spending. And so all the
big accounts for labor, HHS, defense, military construction, energy and water, leg. branch, a few
of those things.
But the five bills that remain to be passed include transportation. This is the-- these five bills
comprise 25% of the domestic discretionary budget. So right now we have a continuing
resolution that's funding these agencies until-- it was going to be until this Friday. And then with
the death of President Bush, they've extended the continuing resolution for another two weeks
until the 21st of December, which really backs everybody up against Christmas holiday.
So they're hoping that people will become reasonable and make some kind of a deal. I mean, we
certainly hope that that will happen. We're kind of hoping-- or optimistic-- I think it's fair to say,
that an omnibus bill can be written that will contain some good things and some increased
funding for transportation. If an omnibus bill is not written, and they just simply write another
continuing resolution to kick the can into next year, then DOT (US Department of
Transportation) cannot make discretionary grants. You guys have applications for TIGER
(Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) grants, build grants. There would
not be an increase in the formula funding. And there would not be a new tranche of new starts
money for projects that are new projects without the FFGA.
So we're hoping that these nice increases that were included in the House and Senate bills this
year are going to be part of the omnibus. And that would give you an extra $800 million in the
transit formula funds, which would be super. For discretionary grants, the build, the TIGER
program, the administration had asked for a big zero on that. The House has $750 million in their
version. And the Senate has $1 billion. So a compromise between those numbers would be
sweet.
And then on the new starts, administration asked for only $1 billion. And it only covers projects
with existing FFGAs. But the House and the Senate had great numbers. House had $2.61 billion,
Senate $2.5 billion. And that provides an opportunity for new projects.
So you know, we're very hopeful that something will happen. We know the president very much
wants to have money for his border wall in an omnibus bill. He knows he's very unlikely to get

any additional money for the wall if he lets the funding go into next year on another continuing
resolution.
Right now the House would put in $5 billion for the security wall. And the Senate has $1.6
billion in their version. If it goes to next year, and with Nancy Pelosi leading the House, he's
going to get zero. And he's not going to be very happy, because that is one of the key elements of
his program.
So hopefully this funding for the wall will help to bring members together so they can come up
with a final deal on an omnibus. So we shall see. But right now the key date is the 21st of
December.
Patty, did you want to add something to that?
PATTY DOERSCH: I just want to touch briefly before we pivot to what's happening in next
year and in 2020, because we think a lot will happen. Just touch briefly on what I think RTD is
focused on right now, what we're pushing on. First of all, get the CRP (credit risk premium)
money back on the RRIF (Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing) loan for Denver
Union Station. That's our top priority. I could talk about that ad nauseum. But please know we're
absolutely focused on that.
And then secondly, slightly longer term is we need to get the most federal grant funding possible.
And that's through ensuring that the very high formula levels from the two-year budget deal we
got in 2018, 2019 in the FAST (Fixing Americas Surface Transportation) Act, we need those
plus ups again in 2020, because that's the final year of the FAST Act. That'll be the baseline
going into reauthorization.
We want higher than authorized levels, which we got in the past two years, pushed for that.
Discretionary grants, we have to write the most competitive grant applications we can. Sherry
and I spent a lot of time working on the grant application for the 16th Street Mall to make sure
we just accurately hit on everything you need to make it most appealing you can to DOT.
And then finally, earmarks. Democrats are determined to bring them back in the House.
Republicans are on board. If that happens, we need to be ready with projects that we think can be
funded. So, I mean, it's all about the dollars.
TIM DRAKE: I'm going to give a high level introduction to what we expect out of the incoming
Congress and let Patty provide some more detail on the House Democratic plans related to
transportation infrastructure. So in the run up to the recent election, and in the days and weeks
following the election, both the president, as well as Democrats in the House have identified
transportation and infrastructure as an area in which there could be bipartisan agreement.
The Democrats are looking for real funding in a large bill. The president put out a infrastructure
proposal last year that was not well-received by Congress. And it did not get much support, even
from Republicans. Remains to be seen what the president will put forth next year, or if he would
let the House Democrats take the lead on that.

As far as the Democrats in the House, we believe there will be increased oversight of the
administration in transportation and infrastructure. This will likely play out, in particular, in the
capital investment grants new starts program. Many Democrats-- and I think some Republicans-have been a little bit upset with the slow pace at which some of these grant dollars have gone out
the door.
Additionally, Democrats are likely to focus on labor protections and Buy America requirements.
As far as infrastructure priorities go, incoming chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee DeFazio is pushing for a gas tax increase. This would potentially fix
the Highway Trust Fund revenue shortfall, and also could provide additional revenue that could
be spent on infrastructure projects.
Another member of the House-- an influential infrastructure member-- who's on the Ways and
Means Committee-- Congressman Blumenauer-- has proposed that the Ways and Means
Committee create a subcommittee devoted to transportation and infrastructure funding. This
would be intended to bring attention to the Highway Trust Fund issue and potentially get some
movement.
With that, I will pass it back to Patty.
PATTY DOERSCH: OK. I'm just going to run quickly. This is like three or four slides in the
presentation. I'm going to try and do it in around a minute and a half here.
The slides are infrastructure bill, and how we chose a revenue solution, and FAST Act
reauthorization. And two of those are complete question marks-- complete if's. The only thing
we really need is a reauthorization bill. But they are so inextricably linked that if we do it right,
they travel together.
Keeping in mind though, that infrastructure bill is a nice to have. It's not a must-pass. So it may
go nowhere.
But Trump and the incoming leaders-- Democratic leaders in the House-- seem so determined to
work together on transportation. So we're optimistic. We had a very interesting conversation with
incoming Chairman DeFazio staffer who said that his boss is committed to moving an
infrastructure bill in the first six months of the coming year. And I think that that's the horse we
should ride.
The Senate is not going to do it. The Senate Banking Committee with jurisdiction over transit
doesn't seem to realize that they have jurisdiction over transit. They haven't moved an
independent transit title since SAFETEA LU (Safe Accountable, Flexible and Efficient
Transportation Equity Act: a Legacy for Users) in 2005. MAP-21, it happened. Add onto a
highway bill. So the horse we're riding is House side.
We were billed in six months. How are you going to pay for it? Tim mentioned gas tax increase.

They're not going to-- the proposal DeFazio is coming out with isn't the gas tax increase. It's his
old Penny for Progress bill where he does double indexing of current gas tax rates. So he indexes
them to two factors that he thinks will crank up the number to-- it's both highway construction
cost index and some way to offset the declining revenues due to the federal CAFE (Corporate
Average Fuel Economy) standards.
With those two things in place, he says you can raise revenues equivalent to about-- naturally-- a
penny per gallon. And that will close the gap-- current gap-- in the highway trust fund and
provide additional $15 to $20 billion a year. And he wants to do that early in 2019, because you
can't raise the tax in an election year. And also because he wants that higher funding level going
into the last year-- 2020-- of the FAST Act, because then again, that's our baseline. That higher
level-- that's where we start going into reauthorization under federal budgeting laws. So that's
where he wants to get.
But if he gets that money in 2020, like he wants to do, he's not confident it will happen. But he's
still pushing. Most of that money would just flow out for us through the FAST Act formulas.
There would be a small percentage of that kind of set aside for new programs.
For the Democrats, that is the gateway project-- the new tunnel in the Hudson River between
New Jersey and New York. That's something that the governor of New York is staking his
political future on. He wants that done.
Creating that on the Republican side for the Brent Spence Bridge. If you've never heard of it, it's
a big deal in DC. It's a bridge that-- a functionally obsolete go-between Ohio and Kentucky.
That's probably the second biggest infrastructure project.
And so DeFazio thinks big, bold bills should include big, bold projects. So that's on the list. But
most of the money going out through the FAST Act.
And all that said, DeFazio has made clear, at this point at least, he will not do a substantive
reauthorization of the FAST Act the end of 2020 unless there's new money. He will do a little
extension. He's digging in on that.
And so we're optimistic. If he's pushing it and he's that aggressive, we may get it. In terms of
what would be in the bill-- a infrastructure bill or a FAST Act reauthorization-- again, earmarks.
Chairman DeFazio calls these Article 1 projects, because Article 1 is the section of the
Constitution that gives Congress the authority to appropriate funds to spend the money. So he's
elevated this to his constitutional right to direct spending. So it may happen.
And then this was an interesting thing that kind of caught me off guard. We heard it on the
Senate side the next day from Homer [INAUDIBLE] on the banking staff. They are-- Hill
staffers are very, very concerned with bus procurement. They think that local transit agencies
draft RFPs (Requests for Proposals) that are far too custom, far too specialized unnecessarily.
And they say it's incredibly wasteful of federal dollars, because each bus manufacturer has to
design exactly to those specs.

So they'd like to go in and do like a high, medium, low, three calibers of buses. And that's what
you can spend your federal grant dollars on. And so if you have an opinion on this, now's the
time to weigh in with the staff. Because I know that the bus manufacturers are weighing in. They
love that idea. They don't like customizing.
So that's the two issues that come up-- earmarks and bus procurement. And so that's it for me. I
don't know if Mike-- You want to cover any of the new delegation for Colorado?
MIKE DINO: Well, real quickly, again, I want to thank all the outgoing Board members. I've
just enjoyed immensely working with you all. And I wish you great fortune as you move
forward. And for those who are coming back, we'll have two new members of our delegation that
we'll have to educate an RTD issues-- Representative-elect Joe Neguse and Representative-elect
Jason Crow. And I think they'll be very receptive to all the successful things that RTD has done
and the things you want to do. So we look forward to working with them in the coming year.
So with that, I think we'll take questions.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. First up I see Director Lorraine Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair. You know I'm not at all optimistic. I just-- you
know, I don't think it's going to happen.
And this is-- I've done transportation in Washington for over 30 years. And I don't know when I
have seen a Department of Transportation that was AWOL like this one is. I just-- it isn't going
to happen.
I wish you could-- I love your enthusiasm about the future. But I watch too much TV, I think. So
anyway. Thank you all. It's been a pleasure to work with you. And Mike Dino, we've known
each other for a long time. So I'm going to miss you all.
MIKE DINO: I'll see you up at the Arvada Elks, maybe.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. OK. That'll work. OK. Thank you all.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Solano. Oh, it's on. OK.
It's my understanding-- and please correct me if I'm wrong-- that prior to the current
administration there was a federal funding formula that was 80% federal moneys to 20% local
money, and that with this new administration they flipped it. So it's 20% federal, 80% local. Is
that so?
PATTY DOERSCH: Are you talking discretionary grants? Formula grants are very, very
generally 80-20 for both transit programs and highway programs. The current administration,
you are correct on discretionary grant programs. That's where they have some flexibility at the

administration levels. So USDOT Secretary Chao was pushing dramatically when she first came
into office on discretionary grants, saying, you will receive a higher rating on your project with
the lowest possible amount of federal contribution. You need to show me that you're leveraging a
little bit of federal money to attract new funds.
Republican-led House and Republican-led Senate pushed back hard against that standard. And
they said, no. In the next appropriations bill they said thou shalt not include a federal share as a
grant criterion when you award funds. So it's kind of a battle back and forth.
TIM DRAKE: Additionally, the administration proposed a new category of projects in their
infrastructure proposal that would have flipped the shares from 80-20 to 20-80. Of course, the
Hill did not accept that proposal.
PATTY DOERSCH: But for a new starts for that big pot of discretionary grants where you guys
had great success, at five huge new starts, including just last year we got on the Eagle P3 project.
That number in statute has varied between 50% and 60% for a federal share. But DOT makes
clear, and the Hill makes clear, and the appropriators make clear, the lower number better.
They'll tell you, I want to see that federal number start with a 3. I don't want to see a 4 or a 5.
So there is incredible pressure to provide a significant non-federal share. That's one of the
reasons why I think our TIGER Build grant is going to be strong. And we made the case-basically what you said at the beginning-- we have flipped the numbers on there. We have $118
million project. We're only asking the feds for $25.
And so you're not allowed to technically consider this a factor. But I promise you that they will.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then with regard to funding the Highway Transportation Trust Fund
with increasing the gas tax, what was that number that you gave?
PATTY DOERSCH: For the increase?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: What would we be getting?
PATTY DOERSCH: They'd close the gap. And they would increase it by $15 to $20 billion a
year, generally, for all programs. So 20% of that increase would go to transit, and 80% would go
to highways. That's the traditional breakdown that's been in place since the mass transit account
was created.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So then we find ourselves again in this strange predicament where, this is
great. Let's sell more gas. And those are your GHGs (greenhouse gases) that are causing this
climate change that we want to avoid. So what's going on in Oregon with the VMT (vehicle
miles traveled) tax? They were doing a pilot program there. And I'm kind of wondering if you
know what-- how is that working? Could we do like a mix or something like that?
Because really, incentivizing people to use more gas so we can do public transit, it doesn't make
sense.

PATTY DOERSCH: Agreed. Agreed. You know, Oregon pilots are going well. They have
actually 13 pilots in several states under way. What now the, again, DeFazio staffer told us that
they're looking to do a voluntary nationwide pilot. And it's less about the logistics of testing.
They've figured that out in terms of like a VMT to collect taxes that way. It's more about
increasing consumers' confidence with it, that no one's reading their private data. No one is
necessarily tracking them on GPS.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But they're being tracked anyway.
PATTY DOERSCH: Sure. On your cell phone.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: They're all tracked.
PATTY DOERSCH: [INAUDIBLE] But no one thinks, I don't think, that increasing the gas tax
is a viable long-term solution. People talk about it. I mean, Chairman Schuster had basically his
swan song bill that he dropped a couple of months ago as he's leaving office, saying, 10 years
gas tax increase. And then by law it must end. And we'll switch to VMT. We'll switch to
something else.
But no. You're right. That gas tax, the only reason why it's still a viable idea is it's in place and
it's easy to increase.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Is shovel-ready still a viable thing? In other words, should we
have projects ready to go in case the earmarks come back, and some of these other things?
PATTY DOERSCH: Yes. Not just for earmarks, though. It also makes any discretionary grant
you're pitching to DOT much more appealing. They expect those to be shovel-ready as well.
Project readiness is always a factor when they make discretionary grant awards.
BOB BROOM: And do we have any of those projects? I mean, the problem usually is you go up
for a new project, and you have to go through a three or four-year environmental study before
you can even start a design of a project.
DAVE GENOVA: I would offer maybe 119 would be the closest-- State Highway 119-- would
be the closest thing we have. But we can keep our eye on other projects that we might be able to
get ready.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And thank you for the presentation.

A question that I have is that there was a lot of talk about the House and the Democrats in the
House, and the energy that they have to get things going. But in our system of government, you
basically need both Houses to get it done. And there wasn't much discussion about the Senate.
And I don't think they're going to be hot to trot.
So I'm just wondering how you were thinking that's going to play out. It might move very
quickly in the House. But so what?
PATTY DOERSCH: You're exactly right. The Senate is a bipartisan body-- and particularly in
this Congress and the last Congress. You need 60 votes to move most legislation. The
Republicans picked up two. So they will need Dems to move something.
Transportation has always been a bipartisan issue. And the Senate isn't a majority rule type of
organization like the House is. So I do think there is bipartisan support to move an infrastructure
bill on the Senate side. But I still think that the House is going to lead it. No one's more
dedicated to it than Chairman DeFazio.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And that leads me to this other question about a gas tax. I mean, some
people-- like some people on this Board-- are just really opposed to it philosophically. And I'm
just wondering, given that fact, is the prognosis good, even if the Chairman in the House is for
it?
PATTY DOERSCH: Look what's happening in France. I'm not going to be someone who's just
going to tell you that raising the gas tax is easy. If it was easy, we would have done it a long time
ago. There's no logistical hurdle to it. There's nothing substantively difficult about raising the gas
tax. It's politically still really treacherous for mostly Republicans.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. And one kind of more private question, so to speak, is I'm
always looking for ways to get more money for the rail, for finishing FasTracks. It's really
boring. I say the same thing over and over. I always ask Mike Dino, well, think you can do it?
No.
But-MIKE DINO: Well, and we hear you. And I think we'll always be-- we'll keep thinking about
ways that we might free up something down the line.
JUDY LUBOW Could you think of anything where anything might happen, where a shovelready project-DAVE GENOVA Come in shovel-ready.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. It is shovel-ready.
MIKE DINO My shovel's ready. Yeah.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: They've been ready for years on that project. It's been a long wait, anyway. All
right. Thank you. Your silence speaks volumes.
PAUL SOLANO: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair. So I don't have any heavy introspective type questions or
anything weighty to say. But I did want to take this opportunity, especially to you three, I'll see
the rest of these people probably the rest of my life in some form or fashion. But you have been a
delight to work with. And I've enjoyed every opportunity to meet with you and to get to DC and
have you come out here.
And I-- there are several of us that are leaving. And I think about a couple more meetings left,
and I'll be gone. So I just want to take the time to say thank you. Your firm is delightful. You are
delightful. You've all done a good job. And I appreciate what you've done for us. Thank you.
PAUL SOLANO: I see no other speakers. I would like to echo-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: I defer to you, Chair.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. I'm going to-CHUCK SISK: No. Thank you. I think Director Hoy certainly said it and said it very well. But I
will say this, Squire Patton Boggs, you all are class acts. You're professional. You do your jobs.
And I think that's something that certainly it's reflected in terms of the results. But more
importantly, in terms of what services you provided us on a personalized basis in coming out the
first Tuesday in December. The only thing I would say, hopefully next year whoever is the Chair
will put you in first place starting, rather than having you undergo two hours and 59 minutes-but I wasn't counting-- of a meeting that was rather long and-- but anyway. You endured that so.
I think that speaks well for you just that you're still awake.
The important thing now is to go get cocktails at the Crawford. But anyway. Seriously, I can't-- I
can't tell you how much personally I've enjoyed the relationship. And certainly more importantly,
RTD has benefited from your adroit way in which you present yourselves and represent RTD. So
thank you so much.
PATTY DOERSCH: Our pleasure.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. This time I'll take my turn. Thank you. I want to echo what Director Sisk
and Director Hoy stated. It's been a pleasure going to DC. It's one of my prime trips every year to
go to. And you've been really great to work with. And I'm sure we'll see you again in another
capacity. Thank you.

OK. This meeting's-- do we have any other matters? No? No other matters? Next meeting is
February 5, 2019. I'll be gone by then. This meeting is adjourned.
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, we'll take approximately a three-minute break. That's
a three-minute break. And then we will commence the Special Board Meeting. Three minutes.

