1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 14, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Remote

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:34 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:35 PM
6:33 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:36 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:35 PM
6:36 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:36 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:35 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:35 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:35 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:35 PM

Director Anderson participated for a portion of the meeting via conference call. Director
Bagley and Deadwyler left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Sherry
Ellebracht, Heather Ellerbrock, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Tony
McCaulay, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Cherie Sprague, Errol
Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:

Celina Benavidez, Terry Bright, Audrey DeBarros – 36 Commuting
Solutions, Cecelia Garcia, Doug Gragg, Elise Jones – Boulder County
Commissioner, Andrew Muckle – Mayor of Superior, Joe Triplett,
Leslie Thompson, Gary Van Dorn, Stephen Weinstein, Monte Whaley

B. Recommended Actions

• TMD Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve an
amendment to the Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD)
Contract 10DO024 to exercise the remaining two option periods and to
increase the contract amount by $215,368 from $384,682 to an new Not
to Exceed (NTE) total of $600,000. TMD provides service planning by task
order over a five year period and the anticipated NTE total dollar amount will
exceed the General Manager’s authority of $500,000 in 2014.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the January 21, 2014 Board
meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
stated that this is really a housekeeping item. He explained
that Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD) is a
task order on-call company that supplements RTD’s Service
Planning Department during one-time major restructuring.
Bruce Abel noted that RTD has done two Requests for
Proposals (RFPs) over the last 10 years and TMD was selected
both times. He explained that normally staff would not
exceed the General Manager’s signature authority of 500k but

given the number of corridors they will be working on (Gold, I225 and East) staff wants to be prepared.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if TMD does bus planning in
conjunction with rail planning. Bruce Abel stated that they will
assist with the reconfiguration of bus service to tie in with our
new rail lines.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Purchase of up to 59 Buses for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee,
to exercise the option of Contract 12FK002 with Motor Coach Industries
(MCI) for the purchase of up to 59, 45-foot heavy duty intercity buses to
replace the existing Neoplan intercity coaches at a price not to exceed
$35,036,000 and to authorize the use of existing COP proceeds to finance
the cost of such acquisition. Funding for 18 vehicles is provided in the 2014
FasTracks capital budget for the US 36 BRT project, and funding for the
remaining 41 vehicles will be provided through a budget transfer.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize transfers of
$9.351 million from the articulated bus replacement project and $14.996
million from the transit bus replacement project to cover the cost of the
remaining 41 vehicles. Funding for these projects will be restored in the
2014 Amended Budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 21, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Tobiassen recognized that Director Anderson
had joined the meeting via conference call for this item.
Chair Sisk recognized Boulder County Commissioner Lacy
Jones, Superior Mayor Andrew Muckel, and 36 Commuting

Solution Executive Director Audrey DeBarros who came to the
meeting in support of this action. He stated that they have
been great in their collaboration with RTD in terms of making
efforts to seek common ground. He thanked them for all their
hard work and dedication. Chair Sisk noted there are some
issues remaining that everyone is working through so he will
be voting no but advocated for the rest of the Board to
overwhelmingly vote yes.
Bruce Abel echoed Chair Sisk’s thanks. He informed the
Board that there have been some very substantive and
productive conversations as to how to approach the vehicles.
He stated that staff is recommending authorizing an
amendment with Motor Coach Industries (MCI) to acquire 59,
45-foot heavy duty intercity buses to replace the existing
Neoplan intercity coaches. He explained that the strategy
behind this is that Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) along the US 36
corridor is both express and all-stop service. This
recommendation comes from extensive analysis of vehicles,
surveys with customer, and extensive stakeholder workshops.
Bruce Abel said that staff would also like to move forward
with a continuing dialog with the industry to see if vehicles
that might not currently be available but are more desirable
may come online in the upcoming years. He explained that if
they do then RTD will issue an RFP; staff can then take these
MCIs and put them into regional service as part of our
continuing replacement schedules. Bruce Abel stressed that
the MCIs are the best match in terms of vehicles that are
currently on the market.
Director Folska asked what percentage of this purchase will be
funded by Certificates of Participation (COPS). She also
expressed concern about MCIs longevity in light of what
happened with DesignLine. Bruce Abel stated that the entire
acquisition will be financed through COPs. Terry Howerter,
Chief Financial Officer, informed the Board that in early 2013
staff took advantage of the low interest rates and borrowed
the money for these buses. Bruce Abel explained that MCI is
a very solid company with a long history in bus manufacturing.
He said that due to our history with MCI it is the expectation
that they will be around for quite some time.
Director Daly shared with the Board that when we first started
discussing BRT he had visions of articulated buses with low-

floor and 4 doors. He noted there was even a tour and ride of
a New Flyer bus and he was very disappointed. He explained
that the bus did not have the power to climb the hill to get out
of Boulder. Director Daly said that this is not Bogota or
Shanghai; this is foothills country and we need the correct bus
for this type of corridor. He stated this is the correct but for
US 36.
Director Lubow stated the she loves the fact that RTD staff
has worked so intensely with stakeholders. She inquired
about the status of a response to Boulder City Councilman
Macon Cowles regarding the bike capacity. Nadine Lee stated
that a formal response was sent to Sue Prant and forwarded
to Mr. Cowles.
Director Lubow said she still has the impression that there is
concern that there is a better bus than we are ending up with.
She noted that General Manager Washington told the Board
that RTD would be issuing a Request for Information. She
wonders if that could have been issued 8 months ago so RTD
would have all the information in time for this purchase. Dean
Shaklee, General Superintendent of Maintenance, stated that
there is not a better bus out there at this time; that is
something staff is hoping is developed in the future. He said
that staff is in contact with the major manufacturers on a
regular basis but they just do not have what we are looking for
right now. Nadine Lee, Project Manager for US 36,
commented that we do not want to go with an unproven
technology or company; it would take at least 4 years to
develop, test, manufacture, etc. Marla Lien also noted that if
we had done that we might be in the same position that we
are now with DesignLine.
Director Hoy thanked the stakeholders for coming to the
meeting. He thinks is shows a great deal of interest on their
part. He noted that RTD and the stakeholders have been
working on this a long time with a tremendous amount of
ongoing dialog. Director Hoy stated that he does not get a lot
of input from his constituents on very many things but in the
last week he has had many constituents encouraging him to
move forward with this action. He said for that reason he is
voting yes but does want staff to continue to explore the
possibilities.

Director Bagley stated that BRT is not like a street car, it is not
like a light rail and it is not like commuter rail. BRT has to be
related to the application. He noted that US 36 is a
specialized location and that is the number one factor when
determining the vehicle choice.
Director Daly noted that the reason for loss of space for bikes
is due to the new wheelchair lift. He believes the disabled
community is very happy with these new lifts as they are
much sturdier and put the passenger right in the bus.
Director Folska wondered if we could increase the bike
capacity at the front of the bus. She also wondered about
the availability of B-Cycles. Dean Shaklee stated that we are
limited to two in the front; there are manufacturers that do
three but they do not meet FTA standards so MCI will not put
them on their buses. Nadine Lee stated that the B-Cycle
program is available in Denver and Boulder but not necessarily
at every stop.
Director Hoy commented that the buses that are being
discussed this evening are the same buses in the corridor now;
this bus does not hold fewer bikes than the present day buses
we are buying. He does not think the bike capacity affects
the Board’s decision tonight. He also noted that he’s been
along the corridor many times with 36 commuting solutions
and he does not believe anyone has been left behind because
there was not room for their bike. He thinks that the drivers
and the bikers get along great.
Director Anderson said she will be voting in favor of this
action. She complimented the staff and stakeholders for all
their hard working in getting to this point. She noted how
important it is for the Board to approve this action so RTD can
have an opening day with a complete bus fleet.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten,
Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Chuck Sisk
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Contract Amendment, Central Parking, Contract No. 13-DO-002
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the existing
contract with Central Parking to include the West Line parking facilities in
the contract, to extend the term of the contract through December 31,
2018, to change termination provisions, to modify financial arrangements, to
agree that RTD has an obligation to reimburse Central Parking for
unrecovered expenses at the end of the contract term, and to provide for
upgrade to smart pay stations and stationary cameras at selected facilities.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 21, 2014
Board meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Errol Stevens, Manager of Parking Management, reviewed a
Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the
January 14, 2014 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Daly asked what stations would be added for the
West Line. He commented that he rides the corridor
frequently and he does not see many of the parking facilities
anywhere near capacity. He believes adding the West Line
may be premature. Director Daly does not believe these
facilities should be added until the parking is full. He also does
not believe that many out-of-district people are riding the West
Line so RTD will not see a lot of revenue from adding it. Errol
Stevens said it would be Federal-Decatur, Sheridan,
Wadsworth, Oak and the Federal Center. He said that on the
West Line out-of-district usage has actually been much higher
than expected. Errol Stevens said that in the five years RTD
has done this program there has not been an issue where
there was a significant impact on ridership except with Pine
Junction.
Director Lasater stated that there is a great deal of confusion
as to who needs to pay and for what days. He believes the
signs need to be clear to eliminate this confusion. He wants
staff to work to make the signage better so things run more
smoothly. Errol Stevens said that there is room for
improvement and staff will be working with marketing on this.

Director James requested to speak with Errol Stevens offline
to get more information about where the $7.69 per space per
year amount comes from; however, he noted that it does
seem like staff is working to improve the program.
Director Folska asked how much Central Parking collects a
year and how much is remitted to RTD. She recommended
that RTD’s parking staff read three books: Signs, The High
Cost of Free Parking, and Sustainable Transportation. She
stated that she supports charging for parking but she believes
it needs to happen in a more thoughtful, seamless, integrated
approach. Director Folska requested that the issue of parking
fees be looked at in conjunction with the Fare Task Force.
Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities, state that
currently RTD does not receive any funds from Central
Parking; RTD’s surplus is being used to accelerate paying off
equipment and start-up costs. Bruce Abel stated that staff
would look at parking during the Fare Task Force.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked if there was any way that
when a person put in their license plate number the machine
could tell them if they were in- or out-of-District. Dave
Genova, Assistant General Manager of Planning, said that
while the machine may not tell them on the screen, it will be
connected to a database that will determine this and then
calculate their parking accordingly.
Chair Sisk stated that he could not agree more with Director
Lasater’s statement. He shared that he has heard many
complaints that RTD is heavy handed in debt collection. Chair
Sisk wondered why RTD was worrying about allowing Central
Parking to recover past operating deficiencies. Errol Stevens
stated that these deficiencies came early in the program while
all the details were still being worked out. He explained that
RTD never intended for Central Parking to lose money so staff
thought this was fair. Additionally, this is tied to reduction of
operating expenses and risk management so it benefits RTD as
well.
Director Hoy noted that the single biggest source of
complaints he hears are related to parking. He said in his
personal experience Central Parking is terrible at answering
phones but efficient in giving tickets. He hopes RTD can work

with them on the various issues related to customer service to
make this an even better program.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Bagley, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Bruce Daly, Bill James
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• May 2014 Service Plan
Bruce Abel reminded the Board that this is just an update so they are
informed about what will be presented for public comment. The Board will
be asked to approve the changes at a later date. He turned it over to Jessie
Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, to answer any
questions. Jessie Carter stated that the changes were outlined in the
January 14, 2014 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda
Packet.
Director Bagley asked for the patronage on the trips that were being
cancelled late in the evening, Monday through Thursday, on the D-Line.
Jessie Carter stated that the highest trip they had seen was 61 people.
Bruce Abel explained that one of the driving factors behind cancelling some
late night and early morning trips Monday through Thursday has to do with
expanding our timeframe for Maintenance-of-Way activities.
Director Menten shared with the Board that she has been receiving petitions
with no way possible to contact the petitioners. She wondered if other
Directors had been receiving this and if anyone had success in contacting
the people. Jessie Carter stated that staff had spoken with the originator of
the petition but not the others. He is not sure if some of the petitioners also
participated in our public hearing related to Denver Union Station. He noted
that due to feedback received at the public hearing staff has made changes
to reduce bus traffic on 18th as staff felt the public had a valid point.
Director Folska asked how many signatures a petition needs for RTD to take
action. Jessie Carter stated that it is not related to the number of signatures
but the subject of the petition. It is more important if they petitioners have
a valid point than a lot of signatures. Marla Lien stated that there is no

regulatory process that applies to petitions. It is up to staff and the Board to
decide if it has merit.
Director James reminded everyone that with the Free Metro Ride we were
forced to cutback service due to budget. He wonders if there is a dollar
amount associated with that cutback and if it really was cost effective.
Jessie Carter stated that it saved RTD have to purchase one vehicle for peak
hour service. He explained that additionally, if you look at 6 hours of service
at the local rate cost it would be about 50k annualized that RTD was saving.
Jessie Carter noted that there would be more to learn though once it was in
service.
Director Daly asked why the 15L was being rerouted to have the FederalDecatur station as its terminus. Jessie Carter said this is the change he
referenced was made due to the public hearing comments related to 18th
Street. This changes reduces the number of buses going down 18th by
30%.
Committee Chair Tobiassen expressed concern that the changes to the 15L
could lead to overcrowding as this is one of the busiest routes RTD has. He
also asked for confirmation that we are not reducing early morning service
on the H-Line. Jessie Carter stated that this will really bring new customers
who would likely be riding only in the new service area so that is not a
concern. He said that we are reducing service around 1:00 a.m. but not
around 4:30-5:00 a.m. on the H-Line.

• Access-a-Ride 3rd Quarter Performance Report
Bruce Abel stated that the Access-a-Ride 3rd Quarter Report was included in
the January 14, 2014 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda
Packet. He asked if there were any questions.
Director Folska asked for an update on Global Transportation. She
wondered if RTD ever issued a statement regarding the owner’s guilty plea
to charges of failing to properly withhold taxes for employees. Bruce Abel
stated that Global’s contract with RTD’s expired on December 31, 2013. It
was extended through March 31 to allow time to transition to our two
contractors moving forward. He said that RTD is working to transition
Global’s workers to our other providers. Bruce Abel stated that the guilty
plea was not a surprise for RTD as we participated in the investigation as
the Board was advised several months ago. Scott Reed said that RTD has
not issued a statement because the issue has passed.

Committee Chair Tobiassen thanked the entire Access-a-Ride staff. He
stated that he gets very few complaints and the few he gets are addressed
by the staff right away.

 Fare Task Force Update
Bruce Abel provided the Board with a handout outlining the objectives,
process and desired accomplishments that is available in the January 14,
2014 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Folska expressed that she is so glad staff is looking at this. She
believes the simplification and clarification will be very helpful. She
reiterated her hope that the Task Force will also include parking in the mix.
She stressed that it is very important for fares and parking to be
complimentary.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she wants to make sure we address the
entire fare process for the working poor. She has been hearing that people
on the end of the West Line are unable to use it to get Downtown because it
is too expensive.

D. Other Matters
Director Rivera-Malpiede encouraged everyone to go to a new website,
mywaytogo.org. This is a website that was launched by DRCOG and the TMAs.
She said it is really amazing and they are trying to bring awareness to it.
Director Menten stated that she has received several phone calls from people who
applied to the Customer Panel but have not yet heard if they were selected. She
asked for an update on that process. Scott Reed said he would look into it.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this was probably his last time as the
Operations and Customer Service Committee Chair. He thanked Bruce Abel for his
support. He said it had been a great pleasure working with the entire team.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 11, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:20 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

