Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 1 of 18

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

November 14th, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held November
13th, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.

Chair Kemp and Directors Gore and O’Boyle were absent

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, David Genova, Kenn Hardin,
Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Cory Granrud, Dale Honor, Mark Rush,
Michael Washington

Others Present:

Michelle Brier, L. Skip Brown Damien Casey, ZG Czupor, Claudia
Folska, Martell Dyles Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton,
Gary Lasater, Dave Lewis, Judy Lubow, Johanna Medina, Daniel
Pearsall, Gene Putman, Christian Reitter, Jacob Riger, Roger Sherman,
Jeanne Shreve, Marta Sipeki, Tim Stokes, Karen Stuart, Monte Whaley
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Cohen called the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting to order at 5:57p.m.

I.

DUS Update
Committee Chair Cohen explained that due to time issues, the DUS Update was
moved from the Planning and Development meeting to this meeting.
Bill Mosher provided an update on the Denver Union Station project. They are about
75% completed and have spent $356 million with close to $100 million remaining for
completion.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 2 of 18

On the Regional Bus Facility some path of the project goes through bus box
structure. There are a number of improvements that have either been completed or
are under construction. They have completed installation of elevator and escalator at
the Chestnut Pavilion. Skylights are almost completed in the interior. Ticketing
facilities are getting close to completion. Fans are being installed. Curb work is
starting to happen. On East Wewatta (behind DUS) the train bridge caisson and
caps is complete. The pavilion structural steel erections as well as the installation of
elevator and escalator are underway.
On the commuter rail facility, structural work to accommodate 8 tracks is underway.
The train bridge caissons, pier caps and canopy foundation are completed. Steel
fabrication for the CRT canopy is close to completion. UG utility work in the CRT
area is underway. The public notification system addresses public announcements
and emergency notifications. They are also addressing prospective requirements
requested by the Denver Fire Department. The first span of the canopy has been
completed and will be opening it for traffic soon.
Streets & Plaza
Construction is pretty much going as intended. They expect to complete the
Wawatta Street by spring and the Wynkoop Plaza by the end of next year. Streets,
lights, paving and gardens at 17th street has been completed and most of the utilities
are in. The drainage facility to retain water is under construction in front of the
station.
They continue to coordinate with the Denver Union Station Renovation as well as
with the Amtrak move. They expect to have USD completed by the summer of
2014. Public involvement is critical as they have 4 construction projects within feet
of each other. A lot of coordination is taking place, most of which has to do with the
private activities.
Director Bagley thanked Bill Mosher for the presentation. He also mentioned that
during his monthly meeting he received some updates and it is phenomenal what has
been achieved to date. He also suggested that in January the Board needs to have a
tour to see all that has occurred. Bill Mosher agreed that it is a great idea.
Director Tayer is interested to know what the expectation is for the water fountain.
He wondered if the purpose is amusement or just a visual feature. Director Tayer
mentioned the water fountain at DIA being beautiful but it ended up leaking into the
floor so he would like more background. Bill explained that there have been a lot of
discussions; they got rid of two out of the three fountains. This fountain is located
in the sunny part of the facility, it is flat in order to be utilized for concerts and other
events and people will be able to walk through it. They have put in place a
maintenance program to ensure that it is well kept. They have tried to meet all
requirements and tried to make sure it is manageable.
Director Malpiede commented that it is amazing and the staff has done an amazing

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 3 of 18

job. She has taken some constituents to visit and it would be a good idea to take
some of the newly elected legislators to visit the project. Bill mentioned that for the
next presentation, he will add private projects and will provide their status. They
need to know the value of the private investment in this project.
Director McMullen stated that he is concerned, because T-Rex is already showing
some deterioration on the paint. He asked what the longevity is for the paint. He
does not want to see rust coming up in this new project. Bill stated that they have
been assured by the architect that the selected paint will not allow that deterioration.
They are using a very high tech system for the paint alone.
Director Anderson is concerned about the fountain and e-coli virus. They have had
some instances in some fountains in Arvada facing those issues and she asked how
they plan to address this. Bill mentioned that he will have to ask about that, he does
not know. Staff mentioned that they did look at similar parks and they all have a
system that recycles the water and hopefully gets rid of the bacteria but they will
take a closer look at this issue. Director Anderson recommended talking to the
Arvada staff.
Committee Chair Cohen thanked Bill Mosher for coming with the report and
mentioned that regularly this update would be in the planning committee.
II.

CAC Update
David Lewis thanked Scott Reed for making the Citizens Advisory Committee aware
of the Eno Policy Forum being held November 14. He also shared that on December
19 they will have their quarterly meeting here in the Board room. They expect to
have the senior leadership and Board members attending.

III.

Recommended Actions
Approval of Ninth Year (2013) Contact Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
FasTracks Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the ninth year contract
amendment for Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of $22,713,944 for Program
Support Consulting (PSC) for FasTracks for the year 2013. Funds for the award are
contained in the 2013 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the
specific projects where PSC support would be utilized.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 4 of 18

Discussion:

Rick Clarke stated that these consultants work as an extension
of the staff; they work together to deliver the programs. Last
year the Board approved a six year option. Right now we are at
the peak of the FasTracks program. It takes a lot of people to
manage that. Each corridor is staffed with a dedicated team to
work with the contractor and the community. Another thing is
that there are not a lot of projects after 2016 so this way RTD
minimizes hiring full time staff and instead uses consultants.
They only spend what they need. Even if a position has been
identified, if the position is not needed the money is not spent.
Director Bagley understands that we are ramping up with the I225 and Eagle P3 projects. He asked what the amount was in
2012 for this contract. Rick stated that it was approximately
$20 million.
Director Malpiede stated that she supports their work and
agrees that it’s a smooth operation and they are DBE compliant.
Rick shared that even though the DBE established for the
program is 7%, their DBE commitment is 22%. They also have
two or three Win participants which is not a contract
requirement.
Director Tobiassen stated that it really represents RTD in terms
of construction and interfacing with Denver Transit Partners. He
asked if Jacobs oversees them on RTD’s behalf. Rick explained
it is a team of RTD and Jacobs’s staff working together. They
advise RTD but the final decision is in the hand of the RTD staff
person. Director Tobiassen also asked how much expertise they
bring and what the number of RTD staff is. Clarke stated that
there are 240 people working full time on FasTracks, this does
not include contractors. They are all integrated into one team.
Staff will provide a count of how many are Jacobs people.
Rick stated that some examples of the type of expertise they
bring are cost estimators. They hire former contractors but it
has been an issue to get an experienced cost estimator. They
also provide P3 expertise, people that have work with P3
internationally. Staff sets up the program and to manage it they
look for Jacobs’s expertise.
Director Anderson stated that it is important to understand that
this contract covers all of the FasTracks projects including West
Rail, US-36, I-225, etc. It is a comprehensive contract.
Vote on
Motion:

The

motion

passed

with

12

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 5 of 18

members
in
favor
(Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Chair Kemp and Directors
Gore and O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.


Approval of the Contract Amendment for Front Range Systems Consultants
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a Contract Amendment with Front Range Systems
Consultants (FRSC) in the amount of $10,439,280 for the year 2013. Funds
for the contract award are included in the 2013 Recommended Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where FRSC support would
be utilized.
Motion:
Director Tobiassen made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Rick Clarke stated that this is the systems engineering
consultant for electric equipment and black box equipment that
operating people use hands on. Chris Reitter mentioned that
their main sub-consultant is Tri-Unity Engineering. They have
been with RTD since the T-Rex program. Frank Buczkowski
mentioned that they are an extension of the RTD Staff, they
have 4 project managers and they run all the projects. Since
RTD does not have any systems designers, they provide OCS
designers, communications, sub-station designers, construction
project managers and electrical engineers among others. They
also provide civil engineers designs. This provides consistency
and the ability to keep people that are familiar with the system
on board. Some of RTD staff is close to retirement, if they were
to change consultants every year it would be a detriment for the
program.
Director Bagley asked what the figure for 2012 was. Frank
responded that it was about $8 million.
Director Tobiassen asked why the overhead contact system
(OCS) is an issue and why we can only find engineers who are

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 6 of 18

in their 70s. Frank mentioned that it is hard to find
replacements as it is a complicated science. Director Tobiassen
expressed that this might be an issue to address with the
universities.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12
members
in
favor
(Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Chair Kemp and Directors
Gore and O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Approval of Ninth Year (2013) Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the ninth year
Contract Amendment for Delcan in the amount of $1,699,247 for Quality
Management Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2013. Funds for
the amendment are contained in the 2013 RTD FasTracks Budget.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Kevin Diviness stated that this is a 12 year contract signed in
2005 with six initial years and six year options. The full time
staff is only 5 individuals plus some part time staff. The firm
provides the analysis and the tools that his people are utilizing.
RTD has an ISO certified program; this was due to having a
systematic process that established consistency on the project.
The tasks remain the same; establish the quality and audit
programs. This coming year they will not be as involved, but
they have helped with the quality of life program. They have a
5% DBE goal and they have consistently surpassed that.
Director Malpiede commended them for exceeding the DBE goal.
Director Daly asked their staff to stand up.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 7 of 18

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12
members
in
favor
(Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Chair Kemp and Directors
Gore and O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Approval of 2013 Contract Award to Virtegic Group Incorporated for the
FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach
Consultant
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a one-year
contract award with three one-year options, negotiated annually between RTD
and Consultant Staff, and awarded annually by the RTD Board of Directors at
the discretion of RTD to Virtegic Group Incorporated, to serve as the
FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach
Consultant, for an amount not to exceed $512,918.40 for the year 2013.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2013 FasTracks Budget.
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed stated that as his team briefed the Board when they
did a communications update, they talked about the importance
of having this team as part of the RTD Communications team.
The contract was set up as a one-year contract with four oneyear option, which will be negotiated on an annual basis and
awarded by the Board of Directors. It is important is to have
this team support the activities of the public relations group.
They have to make sure that RTD programs are achieved within
budget; they also need a strong project management team for all
the different activities that need to be performed. The previous
contract had a component to serve as the local government
liaison, which is now under a different contract and Virtegic will
focus on the FasTracks program.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 8 of 18

Pauletta Tonilas explained the contract is for 3 fulltime staff
members and 3 part-time and the addition of a web content
coordinator. This is to help with the integration of the
FasTracks and RTD websites. One of the consultants’ time will
have to be embellished in order to establish and maintain a
relationship with the Board of Directors. Sherman Hamilton’s
hours will be increased in this contract for this. They have a
7% SBE goal; however 100% of the contract is SBE performed
as they are SBE certified. They are not asking for staff increase,
the increase is because of the increased hours.
Director Hoy stated that he recalls there were two different
firms bidding for this and that part of the criteria to select the
new firm was cost, but he has the feeling that they are not
getting what they expected. He doesn’t think RTD is getting
the point across to the people. If they were to consider in the
future or maybe this time to go out for bids, part of the criteria
should be on a results oriented process.
Director McMullen stated that he understands that they have
only been with the RTD for a year and they need to probably
have more time to prove themselves. He supports the company
and will support a second year.
Director Walker agreed with Director McMullen. When Virtegic
got onboard RTD has just learned that it would be facing some
problems with funding. Based on his experience with them, it
has been fine. He also believes they are competing with a lot
of the bad information that has been relayed in printed and
broadcast media. He will support the contract.
Director Malpiede asked for clarification on the breakdown of
staff. Pauletta explained that it is for 3 full-time, 3 part-time
and one additional person that will be added as the web content
coordinator. Currently there are 7 staff members but they are
not exercising the option for graphic design.
Director Anderson agrees with Director Hoy. It has been a
difficult year and she feels uneasy on what the contract is trying
to accomplish. She would have expected this consultant to
stop some of the things that have happened. There was a
Mayor of a Northern city that did not have the right information
and he should have. She is not inclined to vote for this.
Director Daly also supports Director’s Hoy position; he agrees
that in the past they have been rather invisible. Director Daly
mentioned that staff stated that they have shifted some of the

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 9 of 18

responsibility from Virtegic to CRL. Pauletta explained that this
contract is not for local government relations. The consultant
team needs to have more interaction with the Board and the
scope does include establishing and maintaining the relationship.
Director Daly expressed that he did not feel the town hall
meetings went as well as they should have.
Director Deadwyler expressed that she has mixed feelings. This
is a brand new company and probably should have the
opportunity to move forward. However, , she has been
disappointed on what has been generated and how now they
are trying to accomplish so much and it is hard to make sense of
what their role is. They have not been seen in the things they
are supposed to be participating in. They should keep the Board
informed of things that they should know about and be prepared
to address. She believes the contract needs more definition, the
Board needs to know what the outcomes are. Scott agreed that
it’s important to define what their role is versus CRL role, even
thought there might be some overlap. Director Deadwyler
stated that there needs to be clear expectations and
understanding of what their role is and have reporting focused
on outcomes too.
Director Tobiassen agrees with Directors Hoy and Anderson; he
just doesn’t see a lot of activity. He gets a lot of
communication internally from RTD staff but we are not getting
the message out. Getting the information out doesn’t need to
cost a lot of money. He is faced on a daily basis with people
that have the wrong information.
Director Tayer will support this, because he thinks the staff does
a good job in communicating what RTD does and Virtegic’s role
seems to be to support staff on achieving this. Communication
is key. He is concerned about the notion of additional funding
for liaison activities with the Board and would like to see more
detail on what the additional cost is. Pauletta explained that
Sherman was supposed to work only 30% and his time is
increasing to 40%. Another person is going from 50% to 75%
to assist on the I-225 public information efforts. Director Tayer
stated that he still needs more information to understand what
the goals are. He will support it but it needs more information
to better understand the value of this group.
Committee Chair Cohen asked David Lewis to speak on behalf
of the CAC. David stated that he would not want to presume to
speak for the entire committee. He echoed that this is the first
year working with this group and he believes there is a learning

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 10 of 18

curve. He wants to be supportive of them as they work their
way through this process. He reiterated that this is just his
individual opinion.
General Manager Washington reiterated that the scope of work
for the company had changed. He reminded the Board that the
first years of the contracts that were approved unanimously did
not go smooth. This group has been working for less than 12
months; they walked in right as the Board decided not to go to a
vote with a lot of changes and lot of criticism to the FasTracks
plan. General Manager Washington stated that they will provide
the new scope and how they will be measured. Virtegic has
fulfilled the scope that they were given, they have done what
was asked from them. He asked the Board to look favorably to
this contract.
Director McMullen mentioned that he appreciated the telephone
town halls; he thinks that it was better bang for the buck than
all the newsletters put out in preceding years. FasTracks has a
lot of requirements that are complex, like CAC, he likes the
FasTracks website. He thinks this team is doing a good job.
Director Malpiede stated that she also shares the same concerns
as Director Deadwyler. She participated in the town hall and it
was not good. She did the town hall both years, and it was
completely different. She agrees that things might have been a
little tough; however they are expected to come in with an
expertise in communications, and she has seen lack of
information or misinformation in the community. She will
support for one more year, but she really wants to have some
clear expectations.
Pauletta stated that for the town halls they used different
vendors and this should not be attributed to the Virtegic team.
They have gone through a complex process to revise the
strategic plan for FasTracks and the Virtegic team has been a
great support. She is responsible for all the staff and the
consultants; she will work with them.
Director Anderson stated that probably the easiest way to go is
to have the deliverables more clearly defined so that the Board
knows exactly what to expect. She will vote no, but would like
to have more definite deliverable for the Board meeting.
Director Walker mentioned that he has over 20 years of
transportation experience and he has not seen a transportation
project with an accurate description. The consultant is only an

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 11 of 18

extension of the staff. He has been in several positions and
probably has a better understanding of their position so he will
support.
Director Hoy asked General Manager Washington and the staff
that for next time this issue comes in front of the Board he
would like to see a report of what they were supposed to do
and what the outcome was. It is not clear if the contract has a
new scope or will continue with the old scope. Pauletta
explained that the document shows the scope that they were
given and that it will be the same for the new contract. Director
Hoy also mentioned that the town hall meeting was also a bad
experience for him.
Director James mentioned that he has been talking to Scott
Reed about working with some elected officials in his district.
He asked if that was part of the scope. Scott stated that it
could be either. Virtegic creates information to be disseminated,
but one-on-one meetings would be coordinated by CRL. Virtegic
focuses on written communication between RTD and the
community and this might include elected officials briefings.
They are trying to develop one at the programmatic level. This
is not lobbying, but informational. The contract clearly states
“assist”. They will assist RTD staff; they are not to lead these
things. E-newsletter, new developments, that happens through
the staff and consultants team.
Director James has been asking for several months for some
information and has not seen anything. Scott stated that he
sent the information on Saturday. Director James agrees with
Director Hoy and others in that it will be nice if the extension of
the contract includes metrics.
Director Bagley stated to the staff that in summary, this has
been a challenging year for everybody, and communications are
essential and key to what we do. Communication is a big piece
of what we do to inform stakeholders, either elected officials or
community members.
Director Malpiede stated that it is clear to her that she doesn’t
understand the communication department. For the Board
meeting she wants a matrix of what RTD staff do versus
Virtegic and who does what.
Committee Chair Cohen stated that he shares some of the
concerns and he has had conversations with Pauletta and sat
with Rick Clarke to discuss this. Communications is an essential

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 12 of 18

part of what we do. He also has an issue with the prior
statement about Sherman’s hours being embellished to have
liaison with the Board. He asked all members to vote for the
contract; he understands this is a small business.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 10
members in favor (Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 2 against (Anderson
and Hoy). Chair Kemp and Directors
Gore O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.



Title VI Equity Analysis Policies
It is recommended by the FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Major Service Change Policy, Disparate Impact Policy and
Disproportionate Burden Policy to comply with federal laws, regulations and
guidelines with respect to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the November 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Presentation was part of the package. Kenn Hardin stated that
this particular action is related to the need to complete the
analysis prior to the West Rail opening; this is a new Title VI
action that occurred at the FTA. Michael Washington explained
that the important thing is that it governs the way that RTD
projects should be evaluated for equity in service and fare
changes.
Director Tayer asked if the term “considered” is a technical/legal
term. Staff explained that Title VI allows RTD to make an
argument that there might be a legitimate business consideration
for a despair impact.
Director McMullen asked if this is a housekeeping update for
Title VI. Staff explained that this is actually a result of other

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 13 of 18

issues around the country and efforts by the FTA to ensure
equity.
Director Tobiassen asked how the ADA Act of 1964 fits into
this. Staff explained that in Title VI there is a specific circular
that lays out these requirements. As far as ADA it takes
different requirements as it relates to service changes.
Director Deadwyler asked where this may occur and if Five
Points would fall in this category. Staff explained that it
depends on whether the change is qualified as a major change.
Is this 25% of service, if so, they might have to reconsider the
change. They will publish the analysis once it is complete.
Director Walker stated that this will make for a challenging
analysis, since there has been a shift on the concentration of
low income populations. It will be interesting to see the results.
Staff stated that this is a growing trend nationwide, it is a
complex situation. This is new ground for Civil Rights.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12
members
in
favor
(Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Chair Kemp and Directors
Gore O’Boyle were absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously

I.

Updates
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between RTD and Public Agency Stakeholders
Regarding the Northwest Area Mobility Study
Bill Van Meter introduced Brian Welch. This MOU is for the Northwest. They wanted
to have an agreement in place that will memorialize the commitment and make sure
they stay on time and on budget. The MOU defines deadlines and they have
circulated a draft of this to stakeholders and have received feedback which is
included in the document presented. Staff wanted to ensure the Board was informed
of the MOU’s contents before sending this to the stakeholders in each of the entities
listed.
Director Tayer thanked the staff for all their hard work and for the way they
outreached to the stakeholders which has been phenomenal. He will support the
MOU and continue to track in order to make sure that it is open to the public and
make sure there is sufficient public outreach. He wants to allow the opportunity to

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 14 of 18

screen all options at the front end so that we are not fighting those battles at the
end.
Director Walker asked what would happen if consensus cannot be reached as
expressed on page 2. Brian explained that they envision having a voting system in
order to get a vote. They have received feedback from stakeholders and they have
agreed to work with us.
Director Anderson requested to include the city of Arvada as a stakeholder in this.
The North Part of Arvada is right next to the US-36 corridor.
Director Hoy asked if the stakeholders have been involved in this MOU. Brian
explained that the red lines and strikeouts are the feedback and comments received
from the stakeholders who had until yesterday to provide it. Director Hoy stated that
the stakeholders’ feedback should have been asked prior to the Board package being
finalized.
Director Malpiede thanked the staff for reaching out to the stakeholders and
requested that when the document is finalized to have a press conference with all
these Mayors to make sure the message is passed that this will be a joined effort, we
will do it together.
FasTracks Moving Filling the Internal Savings Account (Back-Up provided at the
meeting)
General Manager Washington introduced John Elias, agency historian. He also
explained that no action required of the board at this meeting. He reminded the
Board that they presented the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) initiative in a prior
meeting. Its purpose is to create a savings account in order to move the FasTracks
projects forward. They have identified $300 million in some project that they are
looking to complete.
He clarified that even though in page 4 of the presentation the project initiation is
established for 2017 they would move faster if the account has the required funds.
They have identified 8 priority projects which represent the highest value
recommended opportunities. Staff proposes to approach the Board for approval in
the December cycle.
1. Evaluate FasTracks funding for Base System Operations. Beginning in 2014,
FasTracks funding to support base system operations will increase at the rate of
inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).
The RAM proposal would be starting with the 2014 contribution growing at a
slower pace. They are not talking about impacting services on the street or the
new corridor. Risk level for this item is medium, because if there was a
significant downturn in the economy, RTD would have to access management

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 15 of 18

reserves or reduce base systems service levels commensurate with the severity of
the economic downturn. The strategic budget plan does not include any service
reduction. Staff believes by implementing this proposal they could put $24
million to additional FasTracks capital programs.
2. Reduce FasTracks minimum unrestricted fund balance from $150 million. RTD
currently assumes a minimum balance of $150 million, starting in 2013 to
address the potential downturn in sales and use tax receipts; potential delays in
receiving Eagle Project federal grant funding and potential unforeseen
circumstances that could increase project costs. It also reserves a debt service
reserve for the 2012A bonds to be issued this year.
Staff believes that they can put $72 million in the internal savings account from
2014 to 2017. This means reducing the amount of this balance gradually. This
has a risk level of medium because RTD must maintain fund balance until risks are
mitigated; in case of economic downturn there would be less funding than
anticipated for on-going capital projects or reductions in service levels for
FasTracks projects commensurate with the severity of the downturn. They
believe it is prudent to maintain a debt service reserve equal to the maximum
annual debt service on 2012A bonds.
3. Reduce FasTracks O&M fund balance from three to two months. Staff believes
that by reducing the reserve for the O&M fund would add $10 million into the
saving accounts. This has a medium risk understanding that if there is a
significant economic downturn it could result in less funding than anticipated for
on-going capital projects or reduction in O&M levels for FasTracks projects.
4. Defer UPRR relocation for the SW corridor extension. UPRR relocation would be
completed once funding is identified for the entire project. Risk level is low as it
may raise concerns from stakeholder and completing the relocation without
finishing the entire extension does not provide any mobility benefit for RTD
customers.

5. Achieve project underruns on FasTracks projects currently under contract. These
can be identified once projects are in construction and significant risk milestones
have reached. Risk level is low considering that an economic downturn or rapid
escalation of construction costs could result in less funding than anticipated for
on-going capital projects. FasTracks maintains contingency levels for individual
projects but does not currently have any contingency at the program-wide level.
6. Sales/Lease Opportunities for all RTD properties. Staff will provide a list of all
properties surplus. Will have to be careful with some properties that have federal
interest. Risk Level Low. Some properties have federal interest which could
impact the terms or limit RTD’s ability to sell or lease. RTD may receive pressure
to dispose of property at less than fair market value. May also evaluate the use
of existing properties for easements (cell tower, sharing conduit, etc)

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 16 of 18

7. Request increase in local participation above current 2.5%. This has a risk level
of Low as in current environment many jurisdiction may find providing additional
funding challenging and contributions that do not have “hard value” will not
accelerate project schedules.
8. Sales Tax Audit/Parity, this will require legislative action. Work with legislators to
allow RTD to audit sales and use tax receipts, this would provide RTD with better
management/control over collection. Will provide RTD parity with the State on
Sales tax exemptions. It could potentially increase RTD’s capacity to bond. The
risk level is low as some vendor may oppose. There are not current objections
from the Department of Revenue. Could work with other special districts to
enact a statewide audit, not just RTD. This could generate about 127 million.
This also has a positive effect in the base system, because the additional revenue
could generate higher level of service.
The approval of these recommendations could get us to $277 million by 2017. We
are almost at 70% of lines in construction or schedules for construction in FasTracks,
this would put us at 90% without a sales tax increase. This will provide a way
forward for North Metro to 72nd. They receive some questions about the “at least to
72nd“. They are trying to do more, but it’s a fine line for the grant. If we get to 88th
on our own, the application for the grant will have less opportunity. We need to
have the high ridership included for the grant.
Once the account is created they will report to the Board on a consistent basis.
Additional risk allocation matrix opportunities for future Board consideration (page
27) RTD has a very rich span of services, compare to other areas where they stop
services at midnight.
Next steps: they will make themselves available to address any questions that the
Board members might have. They will present the report for approval in the
December cycle. 2013 would kick off the process.
Director Hoy asked if on item 1 the $24 million is the total or annual amount. Phil
responded that it is cumulative. Director Hoy also asked for clarification if on item 2
funds would go in the account immediately. Phil stated that it will be stacked as
projects get completed. Director Hoy also stated that on item 7 it will be interesting
to see how stakeholders react. He also stated that it would be great for RTD to do
self collection. Phil explained that this issue does not include a self collection option.
Director Hoy also asked if the audit issue is part of the bills the consultant mentioned
earlier. Phil answered that he hopes so. Director Hoy mentioned that he wants to
understand the grant process. Phil explained that we become more competitive with
the cost effective index, the formula that goes with the grant. We become more
competitive by leaving the areas of high ridership. Some comments are that we can
only apply for the grant until service is up to 72nd, but they think they can overcome.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 17 of 18

Director Tayer mentioned that it would be very helpful if we could come up with
some alignment to make sure that we are all in the same page with regard to the
ridership issue. We need to get the feedback from the stakeholders and make sure
they understand that we are in alignment with the completion of the North corridor.
In terms of the risk level assigned to the items, some of them are tight to a downturn
of the economy; he would want to know what would be the actual impact if the
downturn does happen. Phil explained that what we know that is what has happen
to date, but with assumptions presented in the strategic plan it has no service
reduction or fare increase. Director Tayer asked what would be the impact of a
downturn, what the fluctuation in the sales tax would be. Bill Van Meter responded
that there are several actions that can be taken when addressing a downturn.
Director Tayer stated that we should have an idea of what is the level that would
force us to take action.
Director Tayer asked if even though the implementation is set for 2017, if could we
start using the money before 2017. Phil responded that it would be at the Board’s
discretion. What we don’t want is to go into the account for small projects, but for
a big project.
Director Tayer also expressed that with regard to the sales tax audit/parity issue, we
have been exempted for some of the sales tax on soda, etc.
Director Daly asked is the parking fee issue is part of the FasTracks Moving Forward
Plan. Phil responded that it is not, that would be mostly funds for the base systems,
but is something that we could look at.
Director McMullen stated that this is a very good roadmap for the next couple of
years. It gives a nice way to go without having to raise tax. This is a very flexible
FasTracks achievement road map.
Director Bagley stated that during the one-on-one meetings between directors and
staff they can go into discussion and allow them to get the particulars that interest
each director.
Director Tobiassen asked if the assumption for the tax audit/parity, which represents
a big number is based on a study.
Director Anderson thanked Phil for the document. She had some concern when it
was first brought up but thinks this is a good plan. Going back to ridership, the West
Corridor was built first because in terms of ridership it came out on top. The issue
for ridership is very important for the North corridor and it is important to understand
the ridership past 72nd. That story needs to be understood in those northern
communities.
Committee Chair Cohen echoed the comments of the project and asked if for
December they are going to be presented as individual items or package. Phil
responded that they will be presented as a package.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on November 13th, 2012
Page 18 of 18

II.

Other Matters
Committee Chair Cohen welcomed newly elected Directors Claudia Folska, Judy
Lubow and Gary Lasater.

III.

Next Meeting Date – December 4th, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the meeting at 8:50 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee

