2023-09-13
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Wednesday, September 13 Operations and Safety Committee
meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM. I'm asking everyone attending this
meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
We thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors continue to be held remotely via Zoom. They will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
board's website at rtd-denver.com. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to
speak. Staff, if I don't see someone's hand, I would appreciate you letting me know. Directors and staff
participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by
pressing star 9.
To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. And we'll now call the roll for the committee
members. I am here. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: I see you, but I don't hear you very much. But I'll take that as a yes.
TROY WHITMORE: Promise I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: There we go. Better. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha did indicate that she would not be joining us this evening. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Bouquet I do not believe is here yet. He will be joining us
shortly. For the record, I also note that we have Director Guzman and Director Catlin. And I do not see
any other directors. OK. I will now open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic published in the meeting agenda for the current and the immediately
preceding months.

If you wish to speak, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this time,
the committee will not offer direct comments or responses. If you would like to be contacted regarding
your public comment, please email the RTD Board office at rtd.board@rtd-denver.com. Board staff, can
you tell me if there are any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: We don't have any, Committee Chair Williams. We don't have any hands raised at present.
We did receive one prewritten public comment that was distributed earlier from Greater Denver Transit.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. So-JACK KROLL: Committee Chair, there is actually [INAUDIBLE]. I was incorrect.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So we will have the first speaker. Please begin your remarks by stating your name.
Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Do we know who is waiting to speak?
TIM LOVATO: Yes, ma'am. My name is Tim Lovato. Thank you for recognizing me. I'm a member of the
public. And I have a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, in this format we don't normally deal with questions. You have three minutes to
make a statement. And I think we could have somebody respond after the fact. But as a rule of thumb, in
this format, we do not respond immediately to questions. Do you want to try and make a statement that
we could get back to you about?
TIM LOVATO: Sure. Thank you. And I'll also send that email to be contacted later. Thank you. Well, my
statement is I'm reading the safety performance review. And the item on packet page 48 identifying
defects on the end line, it shows that there are four defects in 2022, and also four defects in quarter one,
quarter two 2023. I was curious to know what those are and if those defects are being repaired or what is
the status of them. But that's what I'll be listening for. And thank you for the opportunity.
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly, sir. Are there any other speakers, Mr. Kroll, in the queue?
JACK KROLL: None that I'm aware of.
KATE WILLIAMS: And we did note that there were emailed comments from Greater Denver Transit
Partners. So with no other participants at this time, we will close the public comment period. We have no
information or reports from external entities this month that I'm aware of.
There is one recommended action on the agenda this month. And that action is for the September 2023
code of conduct revisions. I'll read it as stated. For the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the
customer code of conduct. As these four changes were both reviewed by staff and circulated to Directors
in advance of our meeting tonight, I'd like to move these changes forward as a single amendment to the
code of conduct.
Before I go to that, I'd like to acknowledge Director Bouquet has joined us this evening. Do I see any
other Directors who have come on? No. OK.
So do I have a motion to recommend for the full Board's consideration the September 2023 code of
conduct revisions as a single amendment?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Director Whitmore.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Whitmore, I see you moving, but I do not hear you.
TROY WHITMORE: Let's try again. I so move.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Do I have a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. OK. Do we have a presentation on this? I think we've
probably all been over it enough, right? OK. I would ask, any Directors who have questions or who wish
to speak to this issue to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on you in turn. Everybody's good? OK.
Then having Director Whitmore as mover, Director Sloan as the second, we will move this item forward to
the Board meeting of September 26. Mr. Kroll, are you-JACK KROLL: You're going to need to call for some kind of vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah. Jeez, I forgot about that. We are still operating under a democracy here.
Yes. So I will go through the roll and ask for a vote. Director Bouquet, your vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes. And we have one absentee vote from the committee. That's Director
Ruscha. So I have one, two, three, four, five, six Yes votes. One not present. I don't know how you say
that. And therefore, this item will move on to the Board agenda on the 26th of September. OK. We're
good to go on. There are no votes. I counted aye votes, yes.
There are two discussion items on the agenda this evening. The first is for the January 2024 service
change proposals. Mr. Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, and I see Mr. Carter, our Senior Manager of
Service Development, are both with us this evening. Would you like to present some information to this
group?

MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I would, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. I'd like to provide
you with an update on the January 2024 service change proposal. As you know, staff brings to you three
service change proposals over the course of a year's time for discussion and subsequent
recommendations, which is in alignment with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, known as the CBA
with the ATU Local 1001 for frontline operator selection of work.
As stated in previous reports, staffing levels continue to be primarily challenged in increasing service
levels to match those identified in the System Optimization Plan. Considering the agency's current staffing
levels and anticipated attrition, the January 2024 service change recommendations are designed to have
minimal impacts to staffing levels and are centered on improving system performance and CBA
compliance related to respite time.
By way of discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing
customer excellence, thus improving on-time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and
adjusting service levels to match ridership demand. Staff is also guided by the Board-adopted service
change principles. And in your Board packet, you will see a breakdown summary of proposed service
changes, service improvements, service reductions, as well as seasonal adjustments to account for travel
patterns.
Public hearings will be conducted September 25. That's Monday, September 25 at noon, which will be
virtual, also Monday the 25th at 5:30 PM, which will happen at 1660 Blake Street in rooms T and D. And
finally Tuesday, September 26 at 12:00 PM, which will be virtual.
So I'm happy at this time to take on questions. And I would invite our Senior Manager of Service
Development to join me, Jessie Carter. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, do we have any questions for our staff members? Mr.
Rosenthal? Director Rosenthal, sorry.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That's fine. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you very much, Mr. Ford and Mr.
Carter and your entire team for working on these proposed service changes. In particular, I'd like to just
note that for Bus 65, I did hear from some folks in the community, particularly retirement building, and so
they were concerned about the service to their building.
And I really appreciate both your work to try to modify the service, but also a shout-out to Maux Sullivan,
Larry Butler, Cooper Langdon, and Jack Kroll for joining the a town hall with those residents to try to
address their concerns. So thank you to the entire RTD team. I look forward to hearing feedback about
the proposed route changes to the 65. And thank you very much for what you do.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I see-- thank you, Mr.-- Director. I don't know what's with me tonight, Director
Rosenthal. You can put your hand down now. I see Director Broom's hand was up next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted maybe a little update on how many lines are still
being impacted by the pandemic? In other words, have we halfway restored service that we cut as a
result of the pandemic or where are we at?
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair. If I may?

KATE WILLIAMS: Please, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. As far as a percentage of the SOP, where we're at right now, I would say it's close
to about 72% of the SOP or the Systems Optimization Plan has been put into place. We're still quite a bit
short of where we want to be with the SOP. But of course, as Mr. Ford had mentioned in his briefing, one
of our biggest obstacles at this point in time has a lot to do with operator availability.
So as you've seen, we've implemented a number of changes. Some of them large, some of them small.
But I have to say, at this point, it would be at the 72% level.
BOB BROOM: That gives me a flavor for it. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I guess my question would be regarding-- I
guess somewhat similar. I'm not sure if the impact or connection is there or not. But I know our E and H
lines are, I believe, still on 30 minutes of service until October. I'm assuming that, come November, we
would be back at 15-minute service.
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. Director Bouquet, you're correct. If we're looking at the E and the H, we're
actually looking at a detour of service. So it's not a change in service in the same way as a service
change. So yes, we would expect those services to return to their previous level.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you very much.
JESSIE CARTER: All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think I have a leftover hand from Director Broom. And I don't see any other hands up.
Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm sorry. I just have a quick question on these changes. Some of them say it's a
schedule adjustment aimed at improving on-time performance. And other ones are very specific to either
removing something from service. I just don't know what-- I mean, I generally understand what getting
them to on-time performance means. But there's no specificity with each of these. And the 52 runs
through District C, so I'm just curious. Can you maybe enlighten me to what that means in a more general
way? And the public may need help understanding that too. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Actually, that's an excellent question, and one that normally, if we're allowed, we'd
like to do a Board member or new Board member orientation to kind of give you an insight as to some of
our lingo. And I have to admit that we do use a lot of jargon. And I apologize for that.

However, on-time performance, as it pertains to the route 52, when we look at the overall performance of
a route, we'll see that it's falling behind where we'd like to see the overall performance of the route.
However, in certain cases, there are things that we know about, and we know exactly where we're going
to actually place time and what the overall cost is going to be.
So with the route 52, as you mentioned, it's a very long route. It does go over about three different district
areas, to tell the truth. So that's one that we know it's not performing, but we can't say exactly where the
issue is.
However, if I were to give you another example, the team reported to me today that the Route 10, more
specifically, we were expecting to see some on-time performance issues in the newer portion where we
extended further east. However, we found that the actual change or the need for more time was in the
downtown Denver area because of signalization issues.
So each one's a fingerprint. And if you have questions, you can feel free to contact us to find out a little bit
more about exactly what we think the issues are as far as on-time performance. So we're certainly open
for that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. Since we're moving quickly tonight, I just thought I would share a comment. I
was recently in Dublin. And every bus, on the front display, said, we're hiring. The newspapers were full of
the human resources problem. There were suggestions that they go outside the EU to have bus drivers
emigrate. And then the pushback was, well, where are they going to live? We don't have workforce
housing for them.
So I just thought I'd share that we are not alone in our situation. Thank you. And I have a photo that I
shared with the Board Office, if anybody would like to see the "we're hiring" sign on the Dublin bus.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much, Director Sloan. I see that on our buses on a regular basis,
particularly in downtown. So I can comment that hopefully it'll be effective. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm going to take another bite at the apple because Director Guzman inspired me.
And I thank him for that. But is "late" all one category? Because I feel like one minute late versus 15
versus 30 minutes-- so pardon my ignorance, but I just am curious. Because I'm looking at this, and I'm
like, OK, on-time performance, we're at 67%. Yikes. But then we got 32% that are late. Are we counting
one minute as being late? Because as a rider, I can live with that. So what do we count as late?
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. So that's an excellent question. And again, something we definitely go over as far
as our new Board member orientation. I'm trying to advertise that because I'd like to meet with you all, to
tell the truth, to go over some of these things. So it's not abnormal in a transit system to identify what is
late when it comes down to bus service. So we use what's pretty standard in the industry, five minutes
late minus one or one minute early as being off time, OK?

So if you're seeing a number that's at 67%, you're right. That's not great performance. We are aiming for
86% on locals. We're aiming for 90% on regionals, 92% on rail. So when you see the numbers are below
those, that's something that we definitely need to correct. Does that answer your question?
JULIEN BOUQUET: It does. It does. I'm just curious if it's standard industry or not to-- is there a
significantly late or not? Because I feel like, again, as a customer, that ultimately-- I'm just curious if that's
a measurement or not.
JESSIE CARTER: It is. And I can share with you documents that would show what the industry standard
is.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Cool. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: [INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan, is it a leftover hand?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, it's not. It's a new hand also inspired by the previous director's question. And
that is how does a dropped run count in the performance percentage? Is it just zeroed out? Or does it
become considered late? Or does it just disappear like it does on the signs? Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter? Mr. Ford? Who's on this one?
JESSIE CARTER: I can answer that one, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: We do have a standard for delivery of service. And I know if Mr. Fred Worthen is
around, he can speak to the number of dropped runs. So we look for a percentage of service provided.
And that's typically provided in the quarterly report. So a dropped run is not-- we wouldn't want to average
that into on-time performance. That's something altogether different and something that we do definitely
want to track because it speaks to the service delivery and the efficacy of our service delivery.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good. That works for you, Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, it does.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to note in this discussion that I am currently at the State Transit Conference.
And of interest to Director Sloan's comments earlier, one of the primary discussion items here has been
workforce housing, particularly in rural Colorado, where the agencies are in the same boat as everybody.
They don't have sufficient drivers. And one of the reasons is there is no affordable housing for people who
work in the transit industry to live in. Here in Crested Butte, they're building a 270-unit affordable housing
right down from where I am. And it's aimed a lot at transit workers. So it is ongoing OK. Anybody else
have any comments on this particular-- on the service change proposals?
All right. We're going to go on to the second item, discussion item after nice discussion on that one, which
is the first quarter and second quarter 2023 safety performance review. And I believe that Mr. Dan
McClain has got some information for us.

DAN MCCLAIN: I do, Madam Chair. I will share my screen and review the presentation. Does everybody
see the screen? OK. I'm going to go ahead and go through the update of the first and second quarter
performance of RTD of 2023. We're going to cover the safety performance data and the safety
management system activities that are supporting or working to improve our performance.
Injury data is here. This shows a three-year-- how many injuries we have per month. And these are first
report of injuries, which are required to be filed by the workers' comp. As you see here, 223 of the 388 onthe-job injuries reported are reported for exposure to illicit drugs. And this is much higher than years
before. And recently, they just published a study done by the University of Washington about the effects
of this.
What we have seen is that these, most of these, are record only, which means they don't go any further.
There's no medical attention. There's no lost time. And that's indicated-- again, here's the big slice of the
absorption, inhalation, or ingestion classification. Our second largest are strain and slip and fall, which
historically, we've been tracking and working to improvement. And we do have some good news on some
of those.
One comparison is here's the rate per 100 employees. You see the top bar here indicates all of those first
report of injuries. And it's significantly higher than last year. But if you compare the ones as the OSHA
rates, which is basically taking those with medical treatment and lost time, we're just slightly above 2021
and about one point over 2022 for the half. And you guys have seen these comparisons before. These
are the OSHA national average and the OSHA urban transportation average from the Bureau of Labor
statistics for comparison.
Starting in 2023 as part of the bipartisan infrastructure law implementation, we're required to report transit
worker assaults. And it's significant because the definition is not the same definition that they use for a
legal assault. They changed the definition that basically says if it impedes transportation and if the
operator feels threatened. So they're classified on these.
Reporting goes to the National Transportation Database, the NTD. And they want them classified whether
it was an operator or another transit worker. Was it physical or non-physical? And physical would include
getting a drink thrown on or getting spit on. Non-physical would be verbal abuse. And whether it
happened on the vehicle or on the property. And so far this year, we've had-- or so far through Q1 and
Q2, we've had 137 assaults that meet that criteria.
Again, we're working to get more accurate, better data. Because this is new to everyone, including Joel's
team, including the bus team, including the rail team.
We'll talk now about commuter rail. The commuter rail action incident data per line here is-- you can see
the N line. We've improved for 2023. These, again, are comparing like time periods, so the Q1 and Q2 of
each of those years. Again, the reportable is the more serious event. The recordable is something we
record, required to record.
As far as near misses, station overruns, safety rule violations, and injuries through June of this year,
again, 45 near misses, 27 station overruns. And you can see those are mostly DTO. RTD is the N Line
itself that we're operating. And then the injuries, we've had six, two at DTO and four at RTD.
Trespasser comparisons for the last three years-- again, A Line is still the highest. But we've had an
uptick. The only one we've had an uptick in is the G Line for 2023.

And as far as the inspection reports, the FRA inspection reports, we've had quite a bit of inspection
activity this year. This is broken down by the N Line and the Eagle Lines. Violation defects and nondefects-- these are the hierarchy. The violation is the worst thing. So we get a violation. Defects are
something they've noted that we need to correct. And non-defects are something they've noted. And so
you can see the increase in non-defects on the N Line and then also the increase in non-defects in the
Eagle project. Again, we have had a good presence of FRA inspectors on the system this year.
Light rail-- for reportable events-- and these are the reportable events that are reportable to FTA and PUC
within two hours. These are the most serious events. These are events historically that we've reported. As
you can see, Q1-- or excuse me, 2023, we're down slightly from 2022. Both 2022 and 2023 we had a lot
of activity in the first quarter that drove those numbers that way.
These reportable hazards were required to be reported starting in July of last year. That's why the
quarters don't match up here. But I thought it would be a good comparison. It's six months versus six
months. These are the hazards, the nine other hazards that also includes near misses on the alignment.
You see in the six months in 2022, we had 54. In the six months of 2023, we were down to 29.
Red signal violations continue to go down. There's a lot of good work that's happened. And red signal
violations are when we pass an area that the block is occupied or the signal is red and the train drops out.
This is in our territory on light rail where we have ATS, Automatic Train Signal.
Bus-- this is a comparison of preventable total accidents, preventable and non preventable. 2023 and
2022 are comparable. We have a little bit of additional events occurring in 2023. Again, I don't know if you
guys have-- there's quite a difference in the downtown congestion with the new bike lanes and reducing
lanes. So there's a lot to navigate. Nothing really is standing out that has picked up or ticked up on the
bus side.
As far as performing against our targets that we have for the strategic plan and the targets that we have
in the PTASP and the SSP, the System Safety Plan, we have a preventable accident rate. Our target is
one. Through June we were at 1.39. But I know we've significantly improved that the last two months.
Again, the good news here on the 5% reduction of lost times due to on-the-job injuries through Q1 and
Q2, compared to 2022, 2023, there's a 45% improvement in lost workdays. So that's a lot of good work.
And that's showing there.
The other goals that are in our plan was a 5% reduction of OJIs. And we have a 79% increase. And
again, that increase would be less than 10% if we took out the report, just the inhalation reports of illicit
drugs. We have had a 39% decrease in slip-and-fall injuries. And that was absolutely the highest injury
cause for the last four years. And then the miles between road calls, the reliability, the mean distance
between failure, we have a target to reduce by 3% or increase the distance by 3%. And we have
decreased it through June of this year to 7.7%, down to 28,000 miles.
Activity-- what are we doing to support this and to get forward? We're continuing to further integrate
operational risk management. One of the things, the main topics in our newly formed joint labor
management committee is reviewing all the risks and hazards that have been identified in the committees
at the garages. This is going fairly well. And we're getting a lot of activity around this. Also integrating
operational risk management into our capital programs and our asset management systems that are out
there, including in our asset management bypass system.

On commuter rail, July this year, we had to submit the Fatigue Risk Management Program plan. We have
three years to implement it. We're currently assessing the internal assessment review and the risk-based
management plan based on the System Safety Program Plan.
And next week, on the 20th of September, we're going to have a commuter rail emergency drill near the
Denver Airport. It'll actually be on the east side of the Peña Bridge. And it's multi-agency and engaging all
of the Denver resources from the airport. So that'll be pretty exciting. Those drills are required every year.
DTO is running them this year. We'll be running them next year.
And as for the FTA side, we continue our safety assurance activities. We're conducting an event
investigation, train the trainer. And that's going on. The training will be completed in September. We're
required, on the PUC side, on the light rail side, to conduct internal safety reviews. We're getting fairly-we're getting better at those. We're getting good.
We did have-- as you know, we just had the 2024 PTASP approved by the PUC. It included the
emergency management base plan and the new edition of our joint labor management committee. The
PUC does have fall and spring audits. They finished their spring, and they will start their fall audits
beginning in October. And also per the bipartisan infrastructure law, we have additional rulemaking, which
includes-- the PUC is required to do risk-based inspections. And that's just rolling out this last quarter.
Part of our activity that we do with the PUC is we manage corrective action plans. Corrective action plans
are required when we have events that occur and then when we have findings on audits or internal safety
reviews. We were up to in the 60s with the CAPS.
We have the staff. We have active participation and work with the light rail team. And we'll be able to-and capital programs. We've been able to close these. There's a lot of effort around closing these and a
lot of activity that has to happen. And that's all I have. Any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much, Mr. McClain. I think we'll go to questions and comments. And
the first hand I see is Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Mr. McClain for that presentation. So I
have a few questions and/or comments, particularly expressing my alarm at some of the statistics
regarding assaults, 139. And then if you could just also let us know-- is that more, less, about the same
as last year? And there's a lot of data in the presentation. Maybe just sort of present that to us. Let's just
start there. First of all, that's just a lot. Our bus drivers and train operators and other staff should not be
subject to not one assault. So thank you.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. This was-- if I may, Madam Chair. This is a change in definition that came out in
the bipartisan infrastructure law. And it's very much pushed by the FTA that we change that. It does not
manage or match legal definitions in most states. This has been a topic that's been discussed at APTA
and been put together. FTA put together a guidance video and webinar around how we should report
these.
We talk about how we report them individually at APTA. But yeah, this is significantly more than we
reported last year. Assaults we may have reported two or three last year. This is significant because,
again, it's-- now when a bus driver gets yelled at because the individual doesn't have fare, that's recorded
as an assault. And again, we do have the definition or the data by contracted, by fixed route, by light rail,

and commuter rail. Most of the assaults occur on bus because they're still an open cab. But it's about half
and half between physical and non-physical.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir. And then in terms of the breathing of fumes from illegal drugs, that is
also an alarming statistic. And yet, our drivers are not a statistic. They're humans. And so given that, what
is the procedure in regards to when an operator reports perhaps breathing those fumes. And maybe they
have a headache or what have you. Is there sort of an arbitrage process to where it's like, well, should
they see a doctor? Is there a nurse on site? Do they call an 800 number?
So once that is reported-- and connected to that, I do see the statistic of there's only, I believe it was two-help me with this one-- the two days lost. So in other words, they're feeling bad. They're reporting it. But
they're not skipping work. They're not saying, OK, I'm going to take the next day off or something. So it's
maybe not that severity. But help me with what is the process there?
DAN MCCLAIN: Madam Chair and Debra? Because this is-- go ahead, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Director Williams, address Director Rosenthal's question as relates to
employees being subjected to the adverse impacts. I have several individuals on team that have come on
camera because this is an evolutionary process as we go through, recognizing there is no federal
guidance. At the outset of the presentation, Mr. McClain made reference to the University of Washington
study.
And so, basically, when we were going through the code of conduct discussion, one thing's for certain
what we put forward to you all. When, in fact, there is an individual that feels they cannot continue into
service, we pull them out of service, first and foremost. And we have provided them with the adequate
time that they need to take that first day off. And basically, they can seek whatever assistance they need.
However, I want to ensure that we have the opportunity for our Chief People Officer to speak to this more
specifically, as well as the practical matters relative to rail, which has been very prevalent due to the fact
that people can sit in the back of a rail consist or on a bus. It's not as likely to occur. But it does. So with
that, I'll yield the floor to CPO Polege and then to Mr. Jensen to talk about the rail incident. So Ms.
Polege, the floor is yours.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. Thank you, GM Johnson. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. I'll speak
specifically to the provisions for employees and what is available to them through the negotiated
agreement with ATU 1001. I would defer to my colleagues in Operations for the specific question as to
how is the process done, like what do they do.
As GM Johnson indicated, the process if someone is exposed and they are feeling unwell, they make a
call. I'll let our Operations team speak specifically to that. But depending on what they need, if they need
assistance on scene, that assistance is provided to them in place. If they get back to their work location
and are not feeling well and don't feel that-- or at the time don't feel that they can continue, then they can
then go get the care that they need.
If they, as GM Johnson said, the day of, they go home, they are with pay. The next day, if they are feeling
well, they definitely come back to work. If the next day they are not feeling well, then there is an additional
provision for support for them during that period. Additionally, it is not a proof to us that you were
exposed. If an operator conveys that they have been exposed and are unwell, it is no questions asked.
OK, here's what we can do for you to support.

So in that instance, we are just focused on ensuring that our employees get the care that they need and
that they are-- if they feel they cannot continue operating, that they do not do so. And then I will defer to
my colleagues in Bus and Rail, Mr. Jensen or Mr. Worthen, to address any questions on that process.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, Madam Chair, if I may. So good afternoon, I'm Dave Jensen. Or good evening, I'm
Dave Jensen, the Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations. So a couple of things come to mind on
this specific topic. One, as the data indicated, that almost always or vast majority of the time an injury has
not occurred or reported. It's a report of a contact. So that's why we have all of the reports. When we look
at the data, what we see is the vast majority of the injury reports are not time-off reports.
So what happens is if an employee-- if the train operator on light rail, in particular-- typically, they're
notified by a customer. Typically, they go back. If there's fumes, if there's an odor, they'll open up the train
doors to air it out. They'll have the passengers and the customers de-board the train. It'll sit in place. They
report that. A supervisor is sent to the scene.
If there's a crime taking place, the RTD police is also notified. And then an assessment is done on the
operator, as Miss Polege indicated, that the primary concern is the welfare of our employees and the
customers. In no way, shape, or form do we have the operators operate a train until we can confirm that
they're in a position where they can do so.
So there are times where a train operator will come in contact with something. They've smelt something.
They feel fine. They're not impacted by it at all. On their own volition-- if that's the case, they're able to
operate. If not we transport them. Everybody gets offered on-the-job injury, the process of that, so that we
can document it. We can get them the care they need. They can get the time off that they need. So I don't
know if that's too high level, but-PAUL ROSENTHAL: No, that's fine. Thank you. Thank you, everybody, for that very detailed information.
My final question is in terms of the statistics, there was one saying that there's a calculation involved. And
it says actual hours worked, 2.6 million, I believe it was, for the first quarter of last year. And then it was
2.3 million hours worked for first quarter of this year. And so obviously, those numbers affect the final
number that gives us an idea of the hours worked. So could somebody maybe address that and why is it
less now when my understanding is we're ramping up some of our service?
DAN MCCLAIN: So I can look at it directly. I know there are-- the hours that I get per month aren't actually
per month. They're per however many pay cycles are in that month. So there's some months there's six,
and there's some months there's four. So there is a little variability there. But I don't think-- I track these. I
don't think the hours have went up a lot yet significantly.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Rosenthal, you-- OK. You're done. I see Director Sloan next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. And I have shared Director Rosenthal's concerns. And I appreciate his bringing
them up. And I very much appreciate the responses. Again, the inhalation reports, for one thing, are an
emerging problem. But it also sounds as if there very few overlapping inhalation reports and other reports
such as an ultimate slip-and-fall or medical claim. So that's reassuring. And I appreciate staff's work on
this and respect for the employees.
I have just one other question on Director Rosenthal's other issue that had to do with assault. And it's just
a quick question. Does Allied Universal come under the same reporting and recording system?

DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. So any contractor that we have-- so we record the contractors that would be like
First Transit. We record Allied Universal when they're on commuter rail or when they're in the system. If
they get assaulted, those assaults are tracked. Yes.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much. That's all I have. And again, I appreciate the presentation, the
opportunity to drill down a little bit on this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a note. I'm looking at the Board packet and watching the presentation. I don't
know if I just managed to catch it barely. But slide 19 does not match what we were shown on here. And I
think it's just probably a typo. But we might need to get that updated information corrected in the public
record. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that observation, sir. Director Broom, if you can wait one second.
Sometimes our CEO GM has stuff that's relevant. We don't want to wait too long. So please, Ms.
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. I was made aware that the presentation that Dan utilized is
not the correct one. There were some modifications made. The one you have in the packet is the most
up-to-date presentation. So just wanted to clarify that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am, for that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: My apologies.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. I think the changes were slight. But we will put out to the public the
appropriate information. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. We spent quite a bit of time enclosing the bus drivers in
plexiglass because of the pandemic. Did we take that plexiglass out? Or what's the status of that? Are we
putting it into the new buses, or is that part of the contract?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah.
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. We're continuing to install these. What we
had before was more around COVID. These are more to protect our operators from assaults and other
things that might happen to them while they're out on the road. So we are continuing to install or the
manufacturer is also working to install some of these barriers that are equipped for our various buses.
And that's actively going on right now. I don't know all the numbers right now. But that is an active focus
right now that we have going on for all of our equipment.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I was afraid we probably just dropped that program.
MICHAEL FORD: No, we're very diligent on making sure that we are continuing to ensure our operators
are safe and providing that kind of protection.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom? You good? You are on silent.

BOB BROOM: I'm trying to lower my hand, but I'm-KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I get that. That's why I haven't put mine up, even though I have a couple
questions and comments. So my turn. On September 20, when we do the drill, in the past, we have had
members of the disability community volunteer to participate in that drill. And I'm wondering if anybody
has asked. I don't need an answer from that right now. It's just a thought that it was a big help in the past.
And then my question on all of the statistics-- and Mr. McClain always gives us a really concise report
with a lot of numbers in it. Hard to get your head around it. But the one that stuck out to me was 553 bus
"accidents" in a half year. And I wonder if anybody can speak to some definition of that.
DAN MCCLAIN: So I can speak to the-- the accidents are where we investigate-- where we have to go
out and investigate with our street supervisors. And we've got them all classified in a much more detailed
report to say whether they're sideswipes or they're rear ends or they're hits or what they are. But any time
a bus is in any event, we do a report on it-- the sideswipes or any dings, anything that happens. Although
the number is 500, I think it's not increased that much from last year or previous years. So it's been pretty
static at those rates.
KATE WILLIAMS: So my understanding, then, is that these are vehicular. And we're not talking about 553
incidents where a bus had any kind of a what normally is called an accident that might involve
pedestrians. I'm sorry. General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to provide further
clarification. So when we talk about these accidents, they can be preventable or non-preventable. And so
basically, when you're operating a large commercial vehicle and mixed flow use, oftentimes there could
be an incident of which the operator has no understanding of because the vehicle could have hit that
accident, right? So that's what we mean by sideswipes and things of the like.
So it doesn't necessarily mean that there was actually a strike with an individual, with a pedestrian. It's
just the classification process that's utilized as we go forward. So as you can imagine, with the number of
revenue service hours, not to diminish the impact of an accident, but this is something that we capture.
And so to the point that Mr. McClain was raising, if a car ran up and hit the back of a vehicle, that would
still be an accident, even though the operator was not at fault.
Usually, the most common accidents that occur in this industry, specifically with rubber-tire bus fleets are
buses standing in a zone. So basically, a car is impatient, trying to get away from a bus or what have you.
And that generally happens as we go forward. And I'm just speaking from the vantage point of having
been in the transportation space. So just wanted to qualify the statements around what an accident is
deemed as from a reportable vantage point. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. That's exactly what I was after. OK. Not seeing any more hands raised. We're
going to move along to other matters. And before I open the floor to anybody else, I'm going to take
Chair's privilege. It's probably the most I've spoken in a committee meeting in years.
I would really like to recognize all the great work that's gone into the launch of RTS's Fare Free for Youth
pilot program. It's just been a monumental initiative years in the making before it ever got to the public
eye. Had to overcome a lot of internal and external obstacles. And specifically, I want to recognize the
work of Debra Johnson, who secured an unusual 12-month waiver from the FTA to allow RTD to forego
collecting fares for this important work.

Typically, only a six-month waiver is granted. But Ms. Johnson did magic one more time. And I'd really,
really like to thank her for the wonderful work. This pilot program is going to fund fare free for youth
across our district for the next year. I really want to see us continue our work to promote this initiative with
an eye toward sustainable revenue stream to make fare free on transit for youth everywhere and forever.
As I said, I've been at the State Transit meeting for the last couple of days, and I have really been talking,
in fact, gave a presentation on this initiative because everybody is interested and in favor. We want to
raise up a generation of transit riders for so many reasons. We want it to be a lasting feature of RTD. We
want to grow the future of transit riders and contribute to better air in our state and on our planet. So
thank you to everybody who worked to make this happen.
I see Director Caitlin's hand up. I'll yield the floor on this matter or other matters. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I just wanted to say that I was speaking to somebody
this morning. And anecdotally, they mentioned that they were taking-- and forgive me. I don't remember
which route. But that they had observed usually about 30% of the transit riders in the 8 o'clock hour were
youth, but that this week it was more like 80%. So that was just an interesting observation from someone
that I was speaking to this morning. And it wasn't in my district. It just happened to be-- it was more in the
central business district. But it was still really encouraging that it's working. So I just wanted to comment
because you brought it up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. Are there any other matters that anyone would like to discuss?
OK. Crickets. Seeing no hands. Please note that we have the next Finance and Planning Committee
meeting, which is not us, but it is scheduled for Monday, October 2, which is a deviation from our
standard meeting cadence. And that is being done so that Directors and staff can attend the Denver
Regional Council of Governments Awards Dinner on Wednesday, October 3. and the APTA TRANSform
and Expo conference, which is the week of October 9.
So that committee meeting has been moved. And I do not have the date. I think the next meeting of this
committee normally would be October 12. And I'm not sure if we have moved that as well. But when we-Mr. Kroll, do you know off the top of your head when our next meeting here is?
JACK KROLL: I believe Tai-Shrae unmuted, and she might have something to add.
KATE WILLIAMS: Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Director Williams. I thought this committee was moved to the 2nd. That might
have been a typo in the script for the [INAUDIBLE]. So this meeting should have been moved to the 2nd
because of APTA is also the 11th, so we can't have a meeting that week.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So we'll try that over again. This next committee meeting will be October 2. I don't
know when the next Planning and Finance Committee meeting is. But the reason that that is happening is
because there's a lot of other stuff going on. So we will see you here again at the same time in the same
location on October-TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Debra has her hand raised. Director-- yeah. Director Johnson. You can be a
Director for a while.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I was raising my hand because I was going to
say it was October 2. We moved it to Monday for DRCOG. And so Tai-Shrae clarified it. And I just didn't
put my hand down. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, that was a nice, casual wrap-up here. Everybody's got a smile on their face.
Seeing no other discussion, this meeting will be adjourned at 6:31. Thank you all for your participation
and good evening.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as public comment to the
RTD Operations and Safety Committee Meeting, September 13th, 2023.
September 13th, 2023
Kate Williams, RTD Operations and Safety Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
ATTN: September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions
Dear Chair Williams,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) is in full support of the four proposed amendments to RTD’s Code of Conduct
relating to rules 16, 27, 28 and 40. It is clear to us that these common sense amendments have been
introduced following community input and we urge all directors on the committee to vote in support of them.
Best Regards,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

