Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, October 20, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:53 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:52 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:52 PM
5:52 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:52 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:52 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:52 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Absent

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:52 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:53 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:55 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:52 PM

Director Lubow was absent. Director Lasater left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather
Copp, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson,
Doug Gragg, Kim Heldman, Tina Jaquez, Jessica Keegan, Erin Klaas,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Naté Malone, Tony McCaulay, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Ed Neuberg, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Mayra Gonzáles, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Brian
Lewandowski, Randall Lovegrove, Robert McNown, Peter Mills, Scott
Ramming, Pedro Ramos, Karen Strum, Joe Triplett, Carolina Van
Horn, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villareal, Dace West, Bob Wilson,
Richard Wobbekind

B. Recommended Actions
There were no Recommended Actions.

C. Updates

• Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, reminded the Board that the Sales and
Use Tax forecasting done by the University of Colorado Leeds School of
Business (CU Leeds) is used in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP), Annual
Program Evaluation (APE) and the Annual Budget. She introduced Robert
McNown, Richard Wobbekind and Brian Lewandowski from CU Leeds.
Robert McNown said it was a pleasure to be presenting to the Board this
evening. CU Leeds has appreciated the opportunity to work with RTD. He
reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available in the
October 20, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet.
Robert McNown stressed that there is a lot of uncertainty involved in
forecasting. He shared that the short-term and medium-term forecasts are
affected by employment, personal income, and retail sales and taxable sales;
the long-term forecasts focus on changes in population and age distribution
which affect savings, labor supply, productivity, output, and household
expenditures. He noted that the rate of job growth and personal income
increase in Colorado has outpaced the National average.

Robert McNown stressed that there is always forecast uncertainty, which
requires CU Leeds to make frequent revisions as new information becomes
available. He pointed to a graph of Moody’s Gross Domestic Product
Expectations from March of 2013 through September of 2015 to illustrate
how much just one component of their forecasts could change in a relatively
short period of time. He commented that another factor creating uncertainty
in the forecasts was the addition of retail marijuana sales despite being a
small portion of RTD’s total revenue. He believes it is something the model
will adjust to gradually. He explained that the main factors that would
impact the 2015-2016 revenues would be:
 Improved Colorado employment, sales and personal income
expectations
 Change in taxable goods for RTD (tax parity with State of Colorado)
 Additional of marijuana retail sales
 Decreasing oil prices
Robert McNown stated that the forecasts were strong for 2015 and 2016 at
a change of 6.23% and 7.99% increase over the previous year. He said
that Sales and Use Tax will continue to increase over the long-term but the
rate of increase will begin to slow. He reiterated that the integrity of the
forecasts is very important to CU Leeds. This is insured through:
 Quarterly forecast updates to reflect the most current economic data
 Sales and Use Tax forecasts may be too high or too low, reflecting
uncertainty in the economy
 Theoretically sound economic relations are used to generate
forecasts, modeled with state-of-the-art methods of modern
econometric time series analysis
 Forecasts do not incorporate “add factors” or other subjective
adjustments of model forecasts
 CU Leeds is independent from RTD with no political or financial stake
in the forecast numbers
Director Menten wondered what LBCI stood for as there was reference to
this acronym associated with wavering optimism related to the Colorado
economy on one of the slides. Richard Wobbekind explained that CU Leeds
produces a business confidence index on a quarterly basis. Approximately
400 Colorado firms are surveyed about how they feel about the conditions
and economy overall. He said it is a standard confidence index where over
50 is expansionary and below 50 is contractionary. He noted that the index
is still above 50 but over the last two quarters there has been a decline in
the index. He stated that there are clearly concerns about the national
economy as this has fallen below 50.

Director Menten asked who is polled as part of the index. She wonders if it
covers small, medium and large businesses and if it is random. Brian
Lewandowski explained that there is an established panel with a mix of
small and large businesses as well as a mix of all industries in the State.
Director Solano asked for a laymen’s definition for the statement that read:
“forecasts are generated from theoretically sound economic relations,
modeled with state-of-the-art methods of modern econometric time series
analysis”. Robert McNown explained that CU Leeds builds individual
equations based upon widely accepted macroeconomic theories. Those
equations are estimated with appropriate statistical methods and the validity
of the estimates are checked to determine if they meet various statistical
criteria. He said that the methodology used by CU Leeds pays a lot of
attention to the dynamic relationship between variables and takes into
account leads and lags. He stated that CU Leeds tries to incorporate the
gradual adjustment of variables into the model.
Chair Sisk wondered if CU Leeds had any idea what would happen to the
forecasts if internet sales were taxed. Brian Lewandowski shared that they
did a study on this for the City of Boulder about five years ago. He said that
if the tax base is broadened obviously more sales tax would be collected and
it would level the playing field for local retailers; however, he noted there are
so many taxing bases in the Denver Metro area that it would be nearly
impossible to implement.
Director Bagley believes that if a trend line was drawn from around 2005 the
line would come back to about where the tax is today. He said it is
important to note that underneath that line there would be a great deal of
white space, which is essentially sales tax that was lost. Richard
Wobbekind stated it was correct that in any recession a great deal of output
is lost that can never be recovered.
Director Bagley commented that when evaluating sales and use tax by
quarter, it always seems to be at its lowest for a year during quarter one.
He believes this is because people have expended a great deal coming into
the Christmas season so the first quarter is a low expenditure month.
Robert McNown stated that was correct that forecasts do fluctuate quarter
to quarter but it is a predictable fluctuation. Richard Wobbekind shared that
recently there has been a very strong weather effect in the first quarter that
is puzzling economists all over. It has dampened retail sales, home, sales,
etc. and then very strong second quarters followed. He said that forecasters
have yet to come up with a good way to include the effect in their
forecasting.

Director Bagley thanked CU Leeds for their presentation. He thinks it is
always good to have them keep RTD on track.
Director Folska agreed that it is wonderful to have CU Leeds present.
Director Folska asked if they could provide her with the retail and medical
marijuana sales tax for 2015 thus far. Robert McNown said that to date
RTD has had sales tax revenue totaling about $2.4 million for retail
marijuana and $1.7 million for medical marijuana. He believes it would be
safe to project a total figure at around $6 million for the year. Director
Folska expressed that this number is so important to her because RTD is
looking for a way to fund a low income pass. She thinks this could be a
nice piece of that conversation as these are new sales tax revenues. She
said it would just matter how the Agency chose to allocate and use those
resources.
Director Menten asked if there had been any analysis done on how the
entities that have banned marijuana sales have affected potential revenues
for the State or RTD. Heather Copp stated that she could get additional
information from the Department of Revenue but even without those bans
Denver and the surrounding Metro area would still be the largest sales tax
generators for marijuana.
Director Menten wondered if the Hemp industry has begun to gain any
strength. Heather Copp believes there will continue to be an increase in the
Hemp industry; however, Hemp is regulated by the Department of
Agriculture so it will not generate the same kinds of sales tax as marijuana.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted there have been two bubbles in the
economy since 2000 according to the State Taxable Retail Sales in the
District graph. In looking at the graph for 2015 he wonders if perhaps there
is not a bubble happening right now. Richard Wobbekind said the one thing
that could indicate a bubble right now is housing prices; however, he does
not think housing prices are bubbly but that they might be a constraint to
growth. He stated that he does not believe there is a bubble right now.
Director James said his perception is that many of the risk factors to the
economy come from offshore, like the uncertainty surrounding the Chinese
economy. He wondered if CU Leeds could address those. Robert McNown
stated that things like the Chinese economy are not factors in the forecasts
but that is why CU Leeds also prepares upper and lower bounds for the
forecast to reflect those unpredictable changes.

• 2016 Budget Update
Heather Copp stated this was the third presentation on the 2016 Requested
Budget. She reminded the Board that the September forecast from CU
Leeds has been incorporated into the Requested Budget.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available in the
October 20, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet. She said the major budget assumptions for 2016 are:
 Sales and use tax increase based on revised CU Leeds September
forecast
 Diesel fuel cost at $2.23 per gallon vs $2.95 in 2015
 Unrestricted year-end fund balance for Base System projected at $5.2
million which is in line with the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
She stated that the budget challenges are:
 Grant revenue may be volatile due to budget challenges at national
level
 Funding challenges for remaining FasTracks projects build-out
 Cost allocation from Base System to FasTracks for costs of operating
lines
 Service payment to Denver Transit Operators for first time in 2016
totaling $57 million
 Pension and Health and Welfare plan contributions totaling $2.5
million necessary in 2016
The presentation also included information on sources of funding and uses
for both the Base System and FasTracks as well as on a combined basis.
The next step will be presentation of the 2016 Recommended Budget to the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee on November 10 with request
for Board Adoption on November 17.
Director Folska asked for the Communication Department’s budget for 2016.
Jannette Scarpino said for Base System the Communication’s Requested
Budget was about $14 million or about 3% of the Base System budget. For
FasTracks it was about $5.6 million or 2.6% of the FasTracks Requested
Budget.
Director Folska asked for the expected cost of electricity for 2016 given all
the new line openings. Interim General Manager Genova stated that cost
cuts across several departments so staff would have to get it for her.
Director Folska noted that there are new tax revenues from medical and
retail marijuana that will total about $6 million. She encouraged the
Directors to consider using this funding for a low income fare program.

Director James pointed out that change in diesel fuel price is very
noticeable. He wondered if staff could provide a comparison between the
total cost per year from when diesel peaked in 2013 to 2016’s lock.
Heather Copp noted that from 2015 to 2016 the decreased price per gallon
for diesel would result in a savings of about $6 million. Jannette Scarpino
said she would prepare a comparison from 2013 to 2016.
Director Anderson commented that she believes good public policy when it
comes to budgets is to not earmark funds. She stated that RTD is opening
five new lines in 2016 so the Board needs to be very careful about taking
funding and applying it to something on a whim.
Director Menten asked for the dollar value of the capital carry forward.
Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that this had not yet been estimated
for 2016; however, as an example for 2014 on the Base System side the
capital carry forward was $170 million and on the FasTracks side it was
$817 million.
Committee Chair Tobiassen thanked staff for the hard work they do on the
budget. He noted that many, many Requested Budget items have been
whittled down and pushed off to future years so it is not like there is a great
deal of extra money.

• Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Recommendations Update
Heather Copp reminded the Board that this is the quarterly update to keep
the appraised of them status of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations from November, 2010. She outlined the completed
recommendations as followed:
 Remove the volatility from sales and use tax projections through
contracting with the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business
 Service optimization through an 8% net reduction in service in 2012
 Adopting fund balance policies of three months operating expenses
for Base System and two months operating expenses for FasTracks
 Establish sales and use tax parity with the State effective January,
2014
 Comprehensive energy audit
Heather Copp said that the following recommendations were ongoing:
 Sales and use tax compliance reviews
 Naming rights
 Partnerships and privatization
She explained that the low priority recommendations continue to remain a
low priority and staff has not been actively pursuing them.

Director Francone noted that in the report under sales and use tax
compliance reviews it noted that Revenue Recovery Group had issued
assessments totaling $600K versus costs of $520K. She wondered if that
meant RTD had collected $600K. Heather Copp stated that she would
explain this further during the FasTracks Internal Savings Account update as
there is a huge difference between assessments and collections.
Director Solano commented that revenues from marijuana sales tax at $6
million and the recently approved naming rights at $5 million is very close to
the $11 million needed annually for a low income pass program. Jannette
Scarpino explained that the naming rights did not provide a yearly revenue
figure of $5 million; RTD will receive approximately $1 million per year for
five years. Scott Reed noted that the advertising policy recently changed
which was likely to result in a decrease in that revenue.

• FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Update
Heather Copp reminded the Board that in 2012 staff presented an initiative
to identify opportunities to provide additional funding for FasTracks projects
with a goal of $300 million by 2017, which was called the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA). The goals for the use of the FISA funds
were: (1) completion of US 36 Bus Rapid Transit Project, (2) Construction of
North Metro to at least 72nd Avenue and (3) Any remaining funds above the
$300 million goal could leverage potential grants or private sector
contributions for FasTracks partially-funded projects at the Board’s
Discretion. She explained that some of the figures initially presented have
changed significantly since then and wanted to walk the Board through the
reasoning.
Heather Copp reviewed the following FISA items with the Board with their
status:
 Evaluate FasTracks Funding for Base System Operations
Initially when FasTracks was approved, a provision was made
whereby FasTracks would provide funding each year to the Base
System for additional bus service necessary for feeder service to new
rail corridors. This was initially programed at 1% per year between
2006 and 2020 and 1.5% between 2021 and 2025. Staff
recommended that this funding be limited to the growth in the
Consumer Price Index, which staff believed would generate $24
million through 2017.
Heather Copp stated that to-date there has been $7.8 million
contributed to the FISA and staff feels confident that the remainder
will be realized through 2017 to bring the total to $24 million.











Reduce FasTracks Minimum Unrestricted Fund Balance
As FasTracks projects were completed, it was assumed that the need
to maintain $150 million of unrestricted fund balances to address
unforeseen construction expenditures would diminish. By 2017 it
was assumed that $72 million of this fund balance could be available
for the FISA.
Heather Copp explained that these funds did become available;
however, instead of that money coming through the FISA it was used
to offset other costs and overruns in the FasTracks Program. She
said there will be no additional funds to add to the FISA from the
unrestricted fund balances through 2017.
Reduce FasTracks Operation and Maintenance Fund Balance from 3
to 2 Months
The RTD Fiscal Policy set a target for the Base System unrestricted
reserves of 3 months operating expenses. The Fiscal Policy was
modified for FasTracks operations to set a reserve of 2 months of
operating expenses with the 3rd month being set aside for the FISA.
Heather Copp stated this had been done and staff expected to have
approximately $11.5 million in the FISA from this action. She
explained that it would not grow beyond that as after all the line
openings through 2017 the FasTracks operations unrestricted
reserves will go back to 3 months’ worth of expenses.
Defer Southwest Corridor Union Pacific Railroad Relocation
The FasTracks Financial Plan included a 2014 expenditure of $9
million to relocate a portion of the Union Pacific Railroad for
construction of the Southwest Corridor extension. It was suggested
this be delayed until the Southwest Corridor extension was fully
funded and the funds allocated for the relocation of $9 million be put
in the FISA.
Heather Copp noted this had been deferred and that the $9 million
was available in the FISA.
Achieve Cost Underruns on FasTracks Projects
It was assumed that as FasTracks corridors were completed, up to
$15 million could be saved through cost savings.
Heather Copp explained that these cost savings were reprogrammed
back into FasTracks to address additional project elements for the
North Metro Line through 125th Avenue that were approved through
the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) in 2015. There would be no
additional funds for the FISA from this item through 2017.
Sales/Lease Opportunities for all RTD Properties
As part of the FISA a goals was set to identify properties to sell or
lease that could generate $20 million by 2017.
Heather Copp stated that to-date $5.6 million has been realized for
the FISA. She said that the sales of Civic Center air rights generated
$8.1 million. Of the $8.1 million, $2.5 million was used for the





Northwest Area Mobility Study. She noted that staff will continue to
look at sales and lease opportunities but at this time she does not
have an estimate on what will be realized by 2017. She pointed out
that a lot of RTD properties, especially on the FasTracks side, have
used federal funds which does impact the sale/lease of the properties
and how the funds might be allocated.
Request Increase in Local Participation Above Current 2.5%
As part of the FISA the goal was established to pursue participation
above the required 2.5% local match.
Heather Copp said that this had happened for the Southeast Rail
Extension and these funds are designated in the FISA for construction
of that extension. She stated at this time the amount realized from
this item is still unknown.
Sales Tax Audit/Parity
As a result of the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force recommendations in
2011, it was assumed that RTD could enhance sales and use tax
revenues through a combination of self-collection, which was
eventually revised to be supplemental tax audits, and establishing
parity with the State. The goal for these two items for the FISA was
$127 million.
Heather Copp noted that RTD was able to establish parity with the
State beginning in January, 2014. She shared that staff believes the
parity has generated some additional revenue; however, the ability to
determine how much additional revenue generated is virtually
impossible. She stated that even the Department of Revenue cannot
tell RTD because the tax forms do not include that level of detail.
She said that the sales and use tax is already accounted for in the
Strategic Budget Plan so no funds will go to the FISA from this item.
Heather Copp stated that related to RTD’s external audits, her
recommendation is that RTD no longer continue contracting for these
services. She pointed out that to date the efforts of RTD’s external
audit company, Revenue Recovery Group (RRG), had resulted in
assessments of approximately $650K and costs of $500K. She
explained that an assessment if very different than a collection. In an
assessment, RRG has reviewed a company and determined that they
owe additional taxes other than what they company reported. This
assessment is submitted to the Department of Revenue for review. If
the Department of Revenue agrees they will send a bill to the
customer but it is possible the Department of Revenue might not
agree with the assessment. Once the customer receives the bill the
customer has several options. Unless the customer pays the bill
outright, which they usually do not do, there are several options that
can reduce the amount paid to RTD and take quite some time to
resolve. Heather Copp believes that RTD will end up paying more to

RRG than is ever actually collected. She does not think there will be
any funds available to the FISA from this recommendation.
Heather Copp stated that in summary, it is estimated that by 2017 the FISA
recommendations will result in funds of $86.7 million. She said that after
accounting for approved items for the US 36 BRT, North Metro Rail Line and
Southeast Rail Extension the remaining balance will be $34.3 million. She
explained that funds were programmed in the APE for debt service and
operations for already funded FasTracks Projects.
Director Menten said she cannot tell staff how absolutely pleased she is that
they are recommending RTD not continue the contract with RRG. She does
not believe there are business owners intentionally evading taxes. If there
are additional funds they owe it is through little mistakes because the taxing
is so complicated.
Director Menten inquired if the ballot language from the 2004 approval of
FasTracks included the 1% contribution to the Base System. She was
concerned that moving to the CPI might be going against what the voters
voted for. She also wondered if our paratransit service might suffer the
most by decreasing the funding. Marla Lien, General Counsel, stated that
the ballot language did not specify that 1% of FasTracks funding would go
to the Base System. She said that as far as paratransit service, the Federal
ADA requirement says that RTD must provide paratransit service a certain
distance from our fixed-route service at certain times. The change in
FasTracks funding will in no way impact how RTD provides paratransit
service.
Director Folska believes that as it relates to the sale and lease of RTD
properties it is very important that the Board have an inventory of all RTD’s
real property. Heather Copp said she thought that would be provided as one
of the outcomes from the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) assessment.
Director Folska stated that the Board had been in talks with the TOD
department about this long before that assessment began. She commented
that the Board has been asking for that inventory for over two years and it is
time to make it a priority. Chair Sisk commented that the property inventory
was sent earlier in the day but while the Board was participating in the
General Manager Executive Search Committee so not everyone had the
chance to see it.
Director Bagley asked staff to put the information into a one-page table so it
was easy to look at in a comprehensive manner. He said he would get with
staff offline to discuss this.

Director Hoy thanked staff for all their work. He shared with the Board that
he has had several meetings with staff related to the FISA. He noted that
the uses of the FISA funds had been outlined by Heather Copp. He asked if
he was to presume that the uses outlined were the only uses for the FISA
funds. He stated that the use of FISA funds to pay down debt service really
surprised him. He said that his impression was that FISA funds would
always be used to get tracks on the ground, build BRTs, etc. Heather Copp
stated those were the only uses identified at this time. She said the
discussion of using FISA funds for debt service and operations could be
addressed when the APE was brought to the Board in 2016. She expressed
that she was not sure it was clear to the Board that debt service and
operations was one of the funding sources use to balance the APE.
Director Hoy noted that there were FISA funds used for certain FasTracks
projects that bypassed the FISA. He suggested that in the future if it is
supposed to run through the FISA that is what happens. He believes this
will make it a clearer process to the Board. Heather Copp stated that staff
would definitely do that in the future.
Chair Sisk thinks that the FISA really needs to be scrutinized. He said that
what he understands this evening is that the FISA will no longer be used for
building additional projects as was promised but for financing completed
projects. He shared that he does not think this is what the Board intended.
Chair Sisk stated that the other issue is to really understand where the $300
million estimate came from. He feels this is a very significant deviation and
something that deserves an explanation.
Director James pointed out that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force was
something that was developed when the economy was terrible. He said that
some of the items that were recommended in retrospect were worthwhile
while others were not; however, the scrutiny that resulted from that Task
Force was a really good thing for RTD to find the money hiding under the
couch cushions. Heather Copp agreed that the Task Force really brought the
discussions of finding additional revenue to the forefront. She believes there
was a genuine intent to find every dollar available. She stated that the sales
tax audits were an endeavor that was worthwhile but RTD has since learned
there were not many holes in the State’s process; however, we would never
have known had we not investigated the opportunity.
Director Anderson believes that the idea of auditing only makes sense if RTD
had home rule. She said that is the piece that was missing as part of the
recommendation. Heather Copp stated she would agree with that,
especially now that RTD has parity with the State.

Committee Chair Tobiassen shared that at his Telephone Town Hall someone
made the comment that there is a billion dollar surplus that RTD will
generate over the next few years. He said he was stunned by this
comment. He believes that the FISA is where this person thought the
surplus was coming from. He believes it is very important that RTD set the
expectations that this is not the case nor are FISA funds being earmarked for
someone’s pet project. He thanked Heather for the clarification and reality
of the FISA.

• August 2015 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, pointed out that the August Monthly Financial
Status Report was included in the October 20, 2015 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. He noted that there is
a continuing trend where the revenues are still under budget; however, in
July we were $6 million under budget while as of August it was $3 million
so there is some improvement. He said that expenses are easier to adjust
than revenue. He stated that as of August, expenses were further under
budget than revenue.
There were no questions from the Board.

• Smart Media Technology (SMT) and Day Pass Printer Status
Heather Copp stated that the Smart Media Technology Report was included
in the October 20, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Agenda Packet. She pointed out that there is a new line item for rider
experience as a result of the phase I pilot program. She said there were
some concerns as a result of the pilot that staff was continuing to explore as
part of phase II.
Director Francone inquired as to the color of the day pass printers. Kim
Heldman, Senior Manager of Information Technology, said she believes they
are green but will confirm.
Director Bagley asked, given there are only 70 days left in the year, if
Interim General Manager Genova felt confident the Smart Cards would work
on January 1, 2016. Interim General Manager Genova stated that
technically the pilots had been going very well. He said he remained highly
confident that RTD would hit the January 1, 2016 stored value roll out of
the Smart Cards.

D. Other Matters
There were no Other Matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 10, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

