1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, September 1, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:50 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:50 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:51 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Absent
Absent

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:50 PM
5:50 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent
Absent

5:51 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:51 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:50 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:51 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:51 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:51 PM

Directors Bagley, Deadwyler, James and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Joey
Davidson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck,
David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Bob Grado, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Elizabeth Noreen, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg
Straight, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Michael Washington,

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Marion Combs, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein, Nadia
Garas, Eugene Howard, Roger Sherman, Joe Triplett, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Northeast Area Transit Evaluation (NATE) II
Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, reviewed the Northeast Area Transit
Evaluation (NATE) II Update presentation included in the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee agenda packet for September 1, 2015. The
presentation included a background on the original NATE study, the purpose
of the NATE II, list of participants, study status, modeling results, capital
cost estimates, alignments pros and cons, and next steps.
Director Anderson wondered if the projected ridership within the modeling
results included existing or just new riders. Chris Quinn replied that the
analysis does not identify new riders versus existing. There is the
expectation that some riders may come from the R rail line; however the
expectation is that there will not be many because they serve different
markets.
Director Solano said he was glad the study was happening in Commerce
City and thanked staff for being involved.
Director Lubow mentioned she was very glad that the study was being done
because this area has been underserved. She asked for clarification as it
was her understanding that the NATE was approved for a certain amount of
money to evaluate transit options that could be done after FasTracks was
completed. Chris Quinn replied that the original FasTracks allocated $7.5
million for the preservation of Right of Way (ROW) in that area. He added
that the number has been adjusted due to inflation. Bill Van Meter,

Assistant General Manager for Planning, stated that the amount has been
adjusted to around $9 million. He added that no RTD funds have been
committed or expended on purchasing any ROW and that the amount has
not been budgeted, just as the Central extension and the Southwest
extension, finishing North Metro, etc. Bill Van Meter added that a lot of the
impetus of the NATE is to work with the jurisdictions to set aside ROWs for
when the opportunity to build arises. Director Lubow summed up her
understanding of the NATE as not placed in the 5 year plan since there is no
funding but it is something that could happen and it has been authorized by
FasTracks. Bill Van Meter said that was correct.
Director Francone asked if the original NATE, authorized as part of
FasTracks was paid for with FasTracks funding. Chris Quinn replied that
NATE and ROW preservation were authorized under the original FasTracks.
Chair Sisk thanked staff for working on the NATE as he considers it very
important. He wondered how NATE dovetails with the possible Highway 7
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) study. Chris Quinn noted that on slide 7 of the
presentation the purple line shows Highway 7 BRT to Boulder and 120th Ave
intersecting with the trunk line from Brighton to Quebec Street. He pointed
out that his team is working with the Highway 7 BRT group to create a
ridership model with those east – west connections. He added that the
intent was to not only connect Brighton to Denver but also to the rest of the
FasTracks system. The Highway 7 BRT group is creating a Request for
Proposal (RFP) with the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) funding
received last fall. RTD will start our own needs analysis for Highway 119
BRT next year. Beyond Highway 119, which is included in the Denver
Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) Regional Transportation Plan,
staff does not have prioritization of other corridors. Chris Quinn added that
all other corridors would need an environmental study before moving
forward.
Director Solano wondered what the plan was for Highway 2. He asked if
there are plans to widen the road. Chris Quinn noted that the trunk line
goes through Highway 2 from Sable until it splits at Quebec. He added that
one of the issues staff has been working with Commerce City on is to
determine how to integrate the widening of Highway 2 with RTD’s plans.
Chris Quinn pointed out that the road has a limitation due to the railroad
tracks.
Director Folska shared that the region has noticed more congestion on the
roads as people tend to drive more instead of taking transit when gas prices
are low. She believes in the short term there will be continued congestion;
however, in the long term, when the system is fully built, the widening of
the road will be seen as a benefit to the region. She encouraged reaching

out to other colleagues throughout the region that would benefit from the
congestion mitigation.

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Greg Straight, Engineering Project Manager, reviewed the Eagle P3 Project
Update as included in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee agenda packet
for September 1, 2015. The presentation covered:
 Design, construction and systems status
 Commuter rail vehicles
 East rail line update
 East rail line open house
 Gold/NW rail lines update
 Westminster Station parking garage
 Safety Outreach programs.
He noted that Tara Bettale replaced Kevin Flynn as the Public Information
(PI) Manager for the Eagle P3 Project. He introduced Nadia Garas as the
new PI Manager from Denver Transit Partners (DTP).
Director Anderson said that the project and the update look good. She
shared that construction crews are stringing the wire through the Gold rail
line in Arvada and she hopes to see some trains through the area soon. She
thanked staff for fixing the breach in Olde Town Arvada. She added that
she has been in some discussions regarding a possible low level planting
between the parking lot and the fence. Greg Straight noted he does not
know what the specific plan but he knows this circumstance triggered
another review for hazard analysis on that location. He added that he is not
sure what the final configuration is but can get back to her with the details.
Director Anderson noted that the Arvada Harvest Festival will happen from
September 11 to the 13. She said this would be a great opportunity for
education and outreach, though it might be too soon to plan. Greg Straight
said he would look into it.
Director Folska asked staff to explain the grade crossings in detail so the
Directors could have an image of what it looks like and how it works. Greg
Straight explained that current crossings have gates in the lane of traffic
travel which would not necessary preclude someone from driving around or
a pedestrian from walking around the gate. The new intersections have a
quad gate system: all sides will activate in order to deter motorists from
driving around gates. Since the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) allows
for municipalities to apply for quiet zones, trains will not be sounding horns
unless there is danger. Sidewalks will also have swing gates that would
point pedestrians towards the area of incoming trains in order to create more
awareness. He added that additional signage will be activated if a train,
commuter or freight, is coming in from a blind spot. Director Folska
wondered if this conversation was included in the safety trainings. She also

asked if there is video or animation of these intersections as they do not
seem to be very familiar practices. Greg Straight replied that yes, these
items are discussed during education and outreach. He added that there are
no videos or animation of these crossings. He noted that staff is working
with Operation Lifesaver to prepare project specific materials as part of the
outreach.
Director Folska pointed out the power of peer to peer communication. She
suggested staff reach out to young people’s groups, such as the Boys and
Girls Scouts, in order to have youth teach youth about train safety.
Chair Sisk recognized Aaron Epstein, DTP’s CEO and Executive Project
Director, as a member of the audience. He thanked DTP for being great
partners in the Eagle P3 Project. Chair Sisk asked Greg Straight when DTP
will provide RTD with the exact opening date for the new lines, which
according to the agreement should be a 6 months’ Notice of Operations.
Greg Straight replied that the 6 months’ Notice of Operations is required if
operations were not to start on the target dates. He added that he is very
confident with the progress made and echoed Chair Sisk’s comments
regarding Aaron Epstein and DTP. Chair Sisk asked him to remind him of the
opening dates. Greg Straight said that the contract date for the East/A rail
line is April 22, 2016, the contract date for the Northwest/B rail line is July
26, 2016, and the contract date for the Gold/G rail line is October 27th.
Chair Sisk reiterated that this public private partnership has been great to
work with and that RTD should be pleased with the many people who have
worked to make this project happen.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Hoy shared that for the past 5 years as a Director, but more
specifically, for the past couple of years as the Chair of the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee, he has worked closely with Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for
Capital Programs. Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that this was Rick Clarke’s
last meeting. He said that it has been his honor and pleasure to work with him as
he has learned a lot from him. Even though he hates to see Rick Clarke go,
Committee Chair Hoy wished him the best of luck and success. He thanked Rick
Clarke for all his work. Rick Clarke appreciated Committee Chair Hoy’s words and
said that they meant a lot to him. He noted that he has enjoyed working with the
different Boards over the years. Rick Clarke added that there have been difficulties
and challenges but they have all been worked out.
Director Archuleta shared that he attended the Rail Rodeo at the invitation of Terry
Emmons, Assistant General Manager for Rail Operations. Director Archuleta shared
how impressed he was with the event. He noted that he was able to try out the
train simulator, used by the train operators for training purposes, which was really
amazing. He encouraged the Directors to attend next year’s Rail Rodeo.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 13, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:32 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

