2020-11-05 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: --comes up on our calendar. So I apologize to all of you who are on the phone
or in the meeting already.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, normally when it pops up on Outlook, there are two meetings that
come up. And there was only one that came up this time. So Cash already resent it.
OK. I see that we have Director Tisdale, Director Guissinger, Director Menten, Director Cook,
Director Buzek, Director Walker. John McKay has called in on 5-8. Who is on 8-- Director
Walker. And who is on 8-4?
NATALIE MENTEN: Natalie.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, so you're doing both again. OK. I think we still are waiting for Director
Lewis and, who else are we missing?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The Chair is having computer issues and she's already in the
Executive Session. So she's not going to chance it. She's just going to stay there as long as we
have a quorum.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I believe we do have a quorum.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, we do. And my apologies for the late start. It's 8:09. I'd like to call the
Executive Search/GMOC Committee meeting to order, Thursday, November 5. And we do have
a quorum.
The purpose of this meeting today is to do a exit interview with Paul Ballard that's taped that will
include an assessment of his performance in the eight months that he was here and really a
performance review that is a two-way street. Because I think we, as a Board, are anxious also to
hear his candid comments about how we as an agency are doing and how we can improve as an
agency and as a Board of Directors.
So I'd like to entertain a motion pursuant to Executive Session-- or pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)I
Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding exit interview of
General Manager and Chief Executive officer Paul Ballard. Do I hear a motion, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
JEFF WALKER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger moved and Director Walker second. Any objections?

NATALIE MENTEN: I vote no on going into an Executive Session. This is Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. Let me poll the other members.
So Director Guissinger moved. I'm assuming you're a yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten, no. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm a yes. So there's a vote of 5 to 1, so we will be moving into Executive
Session. And for the record, Director Menten voted no to go into Executive Session.
So please exit this meeting, and we will enter back in after our Executive Session. Again, I
apologize for the mix-up in technology.
OK. It is-- I don't know if we have a quorum. We have Directors Guissinger, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, and Walker. Yes, we do.
So I'd like to reconvene the GMOC meeting at 10:08 on November 5. We have continued our
Executive Session. And the next item on the agenda is the 120-day performance agreement with
Debra Johnson.
I just wanted to make the statement that Debra's 120-day plan, which we will be all working with
her when she starts on Monday, but by our contract with Debra Johnson, we have 120 days to
mutually develop performance metrics for her. And that includes some of the goal setting that we
talked about and some of the metrics by which she would like to be measured and tying it all to
the budget.
So I guess the only thing we wanted to talk about in this particular session is that we are
contractually obligated, the clock starts on November 9 with mutually developing this 120-day
plan. And as we go forward in subsequent meetings of this committee, that's where our focus
will be.
So I don't know if anybody has any comments or questions about that. But we've concluded our
mutual review with Paul. And I think now we have a look ahead.

Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'd like to ask you if you have any thoughts about moving forward on
that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that the 120-day plan that
Miss Johnson has provided to the entire Board of Directors, the Board has received and
reviewed, and in my opinion, I think it's an excellent roadmap on how to move forward with
Miss Johnson for the next 120 days.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. At the conclusion of our 120 days, we do need to have a set of metrics
and performance evaluation criteria for Ms. Johnson. So we will be doing that in parallel with
maybe implementing Debra's first 120-day plan. I just wanted to make sure that there's a
distinction there. There's our contractual obligation and then there's her plan for the agency in the
120 days.
Were there any questions? I do not see any digital hands raised. But I just want you to all be
thinking about that. And we will be developing the agenda for next Thursday's meeting in the
next couple of days, that we can put forth. So if you could all give that some thought, I'd
appreciate it.
Are there any other matters to bring before this committee?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Nope.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good. Hearing none, our next meeting date is November 12, where we will
begin talking about the framework of the performance agreement for Debra Johnson. And we'll
also touch on the Board retreats, where we will be finalizing goals for 2021 and 2022.
So if there are no other matters to bring before the Board, I'm adjourning this meeting at 10:11.
Thank you all for participating.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chat soon.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Bye.

