May 12, 2020
RTD Finance Admin Audit Committee
SHELLEY COOK: OK, everybody. I'll call to order the May 12 meeting of the Finance
Administration Audit Committee. We're convened at 6:44 PM. Thank you for your patience.
Highlighting the agenda we have one action item tonight only, and I'll go right into that. We've
already had our safety moment up here.
So we have a recommended action. It's recommended by the chair of the RTD Board of Directors
that the board approve a motion to adopt the attached resolution series of 2020 concerning a
reduction of directors' expenses budget lines to offset revenue shortfalls due to the COVID-19
impact. The recommendation is consistent with the following General Manager's goals. Quote,
core goal number three, strong financial management. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams, mover. Say again, sorry?
KATE WILLIAMS: I can be a mover or a second.
SHELLEY COOK: Then who was the second?
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
SHELLEY COOK: Lubow. Director Lubow. OK. Got it. OK. I'll turn it over to staff to see if they
have anything to add to the staff report.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus speaking. I just wanted to let all the directors
know that we did an analysis before we picked the figures that we brought forward to make sure
that this was a good average amount of money for what directors have already spent.
I would also like to remind you that the travel and the local are interchangeable. So you can use
the addition of either one of those in either direction for local expenses or travel. So I just wanted
to give an update on how we arrived at those figures as a secondary reduction for the Board of
Directors for 2020.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well, I'll go around quickly to see if we have any questions. See the chart
here. First of all, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Nor do I. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I have a question.
SHELLEY COOK: Go right ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Why is this even necessary, if nobody is traveling anyway and
any excess funds go right back to RTD? What's the point of this in the first place?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So everybody across the board was asked to give a certain amount of
money back. The budget department reviewed all departments and brought back some
recommendations to those departments. It is true that if they don't get utilized, they do go back
into the general fund at the end of the year. But we're trying to solve for budget shortfalls sooner
than the first quarter of 2021.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So if I may have a follow-up question?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Could you please tell me what that total is? Could you remind Me
BARBARA MCMANUS: Which total, exactly?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The reduction. How much money is that total?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we're further reducing by $3,000 the director's travel budget and
reducing by $1,000 for the local budget.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so what is that total?
BOB BROOM: 60,000.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The overall total for all directors?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: When you add up all the directors with the first reduction and the second
reduction, what is that number?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't have the first reduction in front of me. The second reduction is
$45,000.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So how is it that $45,000 is going to make a bit a difference in the
RTD's budget shortfall?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, they're hoping to use this money to offset some projects that need
to be done in the agency. Not all projects are large dollar amounts, and this just adds to some of
those projects to get done. And once we go through adjusting all the budgets agency wide,
including this action tonight, then the staff will continue to look at what projects can be funded, or
where out of the general fund this money can be used.
We in the Board Office have one of the smallest budgets of the entire agency to start with. So even
though $45,000 doesn't sound like a lot of money, when you're talking about repairing a lift in one
of the garages or something like that, it becomes critical to day-to-day operations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, I'm not seeing it, so I'm going to be a no on this. Thank you very
much for your response.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a few comments, actually. And one of the things I've had the
opportunity to observe as a director is often, when we receive these reductions, they aren't
necessarily attached to a larger strategy. And so I'd love, as a director, to understand what it is that
we're trying to reduce, what it is that we're prioritizing, and what principles we're operating within
as we're making these decisions.
It would just be helpful, when these things come forward, for me, as a director, to understand how
we might prioritize where reductions might lie and where savings might be depending on what it
is that we hope to accomplish. And that's not something that I felt like we get as directors. We tend
to get these one-offs, and it would be nice to just have it attached to a larger strategy to really
understand what our end is, and if it justifies the means. That's all.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. I can address that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And two items later we'll be discussing the reductions and stuff and et
cetera. And I think we've identified the strategy in there as to where we were looking. One of the
things we asked everybody to reduce were travel expenses since most all conferences, at least
through September, have already been canceled, ones that we would attend. And so that was low
hanging fruit that we could get.
And I understand $45,000 doesn't seem like a lot, but if you go through the exhibits that we'll be
going through in detail later on, you can see that those $10,000, $20,000, $2,000, $1,000 line item
by line item add up to significant sums of money. So I think the strategy, if you look at the

information that was sent-- it was either Friday or Saturday when we sent that out to the board
members-- we had that strategy in there what we were looking for. And again, I think the Board
Office applied that strategy in trying to come up with the reductions for the Board Office.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Miss McKillop. Director Lewis, anything else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. So we did receive that on Saturday. And what I was really hoping for-because this particular recommendation, actually, it's not tied to anything. It's its own thing. And
so when I talk about a larger strategy, I would really just like to know what it is that we hope to do
as an agency, and from a philosophical standpoint as a board, as SLT, how we might approach that
in understanding what it is that might be important for us.
So for me, what is important is taking care of our operators, particularly our front line folks. For
me, safety is really important. And so then we draw out a strategy based on the things that are
important. And so that was more of what I was getting to. And you're right, we do have this on our
agenda, and so we can talk about it more.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just wanted to kind of reiterate what Director Lewis was saying. I
personally would love to see us have a workshop where we could take a deep dive on where we're
going with our budget and what our first principles, as Director Cook would always say, about
how we make whatever reductions might be coming up that we might need because of this
pandemic.
I think it would be very useful to have a systemic look at our budget and what we're doing about
it. So to me, that would be very helpful. And I just want to say that I actually appreciated being
asked to cut some of the little money that we're being given so that we, as board members, could
also take part, even a little bit, even symbolically, in the kind of sacrificing that has to be done
because of the financial hits of this pandemic. That's my comment. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one question, really. And that is, with the reduction, is that affecting-obviously, it's the directors. Is this also a reduction in the chairs' expenditures?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Yes. The percentage was across the board.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I almost, in our scenario-- and considering the differences in the
travel arrangements, and there's really not much going on in the community-- would have almost
preferred to see them all set at the same. But I am glad to hear that the reductions were in all cases.
So that's all. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd like to also let the directors know that there were a number of other
line items other than the directors' in the Board Office budget that were cut.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Ms. McManus. Director Mihalik, do you have any questions
or comments?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have neither.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Tisdale, do you have any comments or questions?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Neither. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions. No comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think philosophically, it is fundamentally
important to lead by example. I know these amounts are not huge, but it is good to document our
cuts and have those on the record, including the first ones and this second round, and I am in
support of the measure. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Whitmore, thank you for speaking for
me. I echo your sentiment 100%. That's all I have to say.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to say that I agree
with Director Whitmore and Director Williams. And I would just say this is in the spirit of the
agency and working together for the good of all. And so I have absolutely no problem reducing
our collective kinds of travel and stuff. We're not traveling anyway, but really, to say to the
community we're investing back into the agency, I think, is really important. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. And I would just add my own agreement with that, that it's
important for us to do our part. I'm glad there's some flexibility in terms of moving back and forth
between the accounts. So if there's no other discussion, I'd like to move to a vote.
With this one, let's go ahead and go through and see if there are any no votes. . So just start over
again. Please tell me your vote, if you are a yes or no. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes vote. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Madam Chair?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes vote. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes vote as well. I show that as 14 in favor, one opposed, Director
Folska being the no vote. And we're moving on to the next item.
So what we have now are some updates. I will note that the LIVE Program update is now moved
into Item C under updates. I'll take that up after the March 2020 monthly financial status report.
So the first update is the revenue and cost allocation base and FasTracks, and we got this
information on Thursday. CFO Heather McKillop, do you want to introduce this item?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. I'd be glad to, and I think I think Brian Welch is on the line to help
me. But I'm going to start out. The first four pages of this should look really familiar. It was
presented to us back in January when we showed the allocation of revenues and costs among the
county. And so what we just did is a refresher on how we came up with that allocation
methodology. And we outlined that under RTD revenue on how we did those allocations, and then
also, how we allocated the cost, and then also between FasTracks and base system.
A couple things to keep in mind when you look at the chart in there that shows the negative
numbers and the positive numbers is that what it really shows is that Denver is really the centric
part of our system. So everything pretty much goes in and out of Denver. And that is why, when
you look under the net subsidy, it has a positive net subsidy.
And then I think that's even more evident on the following three pages we created-- I didn't create
them, but I appreciate Brian's group and Pauletta's group creating the revenue, cost, and net subsidy
pictures. So we also now wanted to show it from a graphical representation, not just a spreadsheet.
So that's what the following three pages represent. It just shows it in different ways, the revenue,
the cost, and then the net subsidy.
So each year we will be preparing the report. It will be due by July 1. So for the one that will be
coming up this summer, it will be 2019 information. Again remember we're doing this manually,
so it does take us a little while to put together. But I think it shows a pretty good picture of where
we stand.
Now one of the things to keep in mind on this is that we use depreciation to represent past capital
expenditures. And so that's what's included in here. So as we finish and get the end line out, we'll
show up in these figures starting in 2021-- well, part of 2020-- sorry, the last half of 2020, and then
fully operational in 2021 when we do [AUDIO OUT]. So that is the project that is not reflected
currently in these numbers because it hasn't been opened yet, and therefore not depreciated.
SHELLEY COOK: Let me interrupt you quickly. Everybody check your phones, please.
Somebody's not on mute. Thank you. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So you can see there are two other areas in the base system that have a
positive net subsidy, which is Arapahoe and Boulder. And then everybody else pretty much is a
contributor. Like I said, that will change slightly once we open the end line. But overall, these
numbers should not change a lot over time either for FasTracks or the base system until we actually

start adding additional new service like, for instance, if we were to do 119 in 2023, that would
have an impact on those numbers on the base system.
So again, the following three pages are just a visual representation of the spreadsheet. We thought,
again, that would be a good way for people to maybe see it a little bit differently than if they're not
a numbers person, they could see it more from a visual standpoint.
Then we started identifying-- using that same information, the intercounty trips, intracounty trips,
et cetera. And I'm going to turn it over, I believe, to Brian to talk a little bit about that. Brian, are
you on, hopefully?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. Brian's on as a backup. But there you go.
May I, Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please. Go ahead.
WILLIAM VAN METER: So as Heather kind of set up, the first half of this presentation presents
information that was prepared and delivered to the board back in January and gives you a visual
representation of those revenues, costs, and net subsidy. And then what we've done with this
iteration of this information is we have also added on use information in terms of transit passenger
volumes and use.
So as Heather was noting, we provide information on intercounty trips, intracounty trips, rider
destinations by county, and park and ride usage, which then allows us to kind of look at some
information regarding revenues per capita, costs and boardings per capita, and just kind of adds a
little more flavor in terms of a more complete understanding and comparison of the revenues and
costs versus the actual levels of transit use in each of the counties. And that's what's contained on
the intracounty and rider destination by county maps.
Then finally, there's a couple of maps at the bottom, the last two maps, that go towards addressing
some of the information and questions that we continually get from stakeholders and people
involved in the Reimagine RTD effort as well regarding the FasTracks investment. So this
represents complete FasTracks capital investment only, not operating costs, both of these maps,
from the inception of the program, projected expenditures through the end of this year, including
North Metro, to an operational status, so through 2020.
And these maps depict what percentage of the population. And the first map was south of and
north of Colfax. And interestingly, within the RTD district, there's almost an exact 50/50% division
of population south and north of Colfax. And then what percent of the FasTracks investment-- not
prior investments, just FasTracks investment-- and revenues follow north and south of that Colfax
line.
Similarly, the second map uses I70 as kind of a north south dividing line to, perhaps, in some
stakeholders' and others' minds, better represent a north south divide. Similarly, what percentage
of the population and revenue investment within FasTracks from the inception through 2020, has
been made north and south of those two lines.

They're subject to interpretation as to geographic equity, but we wanted to make it very clear that
that's kind of how the capital investments, from inception through 2020, have been made. And
then similarly, particularly in the intracounty and rider destination by county maps, or the
intracounty map, a good understanding of revenues, costs, and transit user by destination county.
So that kind of concludes my attempt at a recap of what those slides represent.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. A lot of good information there. Heather McKillop, do you
have anything to add to wrap up in terms of your introduction? And we can go to questions if not.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. That's fine. Let's go to questions so we have time for that
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Sounds good. So I'll go around and see if you have any questions. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No. Once again, I read my packet and asked my questions offline. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just one comment, and that is that I found the graphic depiction of this data
really helpful. I liked the way that you portrayed them. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you, at this time.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a few questions. Thanks. Are passes included in the fare box
revenue, and are they included based on the county of origin where they're sold? Is that how you
do it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry. I was on mute. I apologize. So all fare box revenue included
passes, et cetera. And I will have to check on that, but I'm assuming it is where they are purchased.
So for, like ECO College. And NECO would be where the business is located, and for the college,
where the college is located. But I will double check on that for you, but I'm fairly sure that's how
it's done.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. And can you give us the breakdown these percentages of
investment for FasTracks investment based on the various lines? I'm looking at the University of
Colorado A Line and thinking that's a big chunk of it. So can you get us those numbers, please?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Heather.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. This is Heather McKillop. As far as just the cost of the line
for the construction?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Our capital cost for an operation just based on the various lines. Do you
keep it that way?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We can do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. And I guess this brings to mind the proposal that you've
raised in the past about using the FISA money to balance the base. And can you just give me an
update on that? Is the proposal still the same as it was when you gave it to us before? And what's
the plan for moving that forward?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I don't know if it's quite the same. I haven't [AUDIO OUT] 2021
revenue forecasts. We're trying to balance 2020 because that will feed 2021. But we will be
presenting in June the first draft of the 2021-2026 financial plan. And that will be coming to you
in June, along with the 2020 amended budget information so you can see how they relate.
The issue around using the FISA for reversing that decision, to some degree, from 2012, will be
addressed as part of the mid-term financial plan. So it won't impact 2020 but will be part of a
discussion for 2021- 2026. So that will start coming forward next month.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then we would be asked to vote on that, what, September, or what's
the timeline on that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I think it depends on if we have a lot of issues to deal with over
the next few months. But yes, the September time frame is when we were looking for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. I was e-mailing with Heather this week that Senator
Winter has asked for the documents that created and set the rules for FISA and all of those things.
And I just would remind everyone involved that if we get into that topic, it's one that needs to be
discussed in the bigger world, and especially up in my world, with the members of the legislature
and others who are clearly interested in that. Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, and Director Guissinger, on that issue, I need to get with you to
figure out a better way of getting those documents because they're quite large. So I meant to touch
base with you on that, so we'll figure that out. Also, an answer--and it's so great to do this through
technology, because the answer to the passes are they are captured where they are used, not where
they're sold.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So each individual use. OK. All right. Thank you. I'll get back with you
tomorrow on the other. Thanks, Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. You good, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm done. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a comment for Heather. Heather, it's really hard to hear you. You're
kind of muffled. And so I just wanted you to know because I had a hard time understanding you.
And I think you may have said that, to answer Director Guissinger's question, that you were no
longer moving forward with the FISA recommendation, that you would withdraw that? Is that
what you said?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I apologize. Is this better?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's much better. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. Sorry. I'll hold it closer. No, we are moving forward with that as
part of the midterm financial plan, which we will start presenting next month in June. So I just said
it might look different based on the revenue situation. Our recommendation might look different
based on the current revenue situation versus what we had presented back in March.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got you. OK, thank you so much. I just wanted to make sure I didn't-- well,
I did misunderstand that. Thank you. That's all I had, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lewis. For noting that. That will help. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just have one comment. Thank you so much for these graphics.
They're helpful, helpful and useful information. But I did want to say, from an area of our district
that has not gotten the FasTracks rail that was promised, that whatever capital expenditures might
have happened in the past, nonetheless, some of us who were promised the rail are still very much
expecting and wanting it. And I felt I just needed to say that. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Thanks. My question, in looking at the chart of the summary of
revenue and costs, which boils it down very nicely, would I be correct in interpreting this that
Jefferson County has got the shortest stick, the least bang for the buck?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: As far as subsidizing others, the $37.5 million is the highest amount of
subsidy, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so I'm interested in, with that, when we have a strategic goal that
has-- I think goal number two is transit equity, which, if you look at definition, fair and equitable.
How would staff view that for Jefferson County as you all open up that discussion, which I've
raised questions about what is the definition transit equity. How would you address that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm going to let Bill address that one.
WILLIAM VAN METER: OK, thank you. This is Bill.

SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Mr. Van Meter.
WILLIAM VAN METER: May I?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you. So equity is in the eye of the beholder. And that's looking
at revenues and costs or expenditures as well. Layering in, also, information regarding utilization
might change the picture. I'm not saying that it does, but it might change the picture some. So if
you look at the user destinations or user origins and the use of the system, which can be argued
also, then, translates back into the level of provision, starts to get to be a very complicated and
difficult metric and matrix to unpack and understand.
Some of the information on the intracounty trips and total utilization starts to address that to some
extent. But as I just noted, there are also a number of different angles and lenses you look at it.
That's one of the things that we are wading into in the coming months as part of the Reimagine
RTD discussion and thinking about the system optimization plan.
So I acknowledge that that is one of the real issues and challenges that we need to look at and need
to acknowledge, that both the county of origin for our ridership, as well as the destination, both
total level of use. So total levels of service provision, which are reflected in the cost, but a number
of other metrics all go into an understanding of what that equity looks like.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for that answer, Bill. And you may remember that a couple of
weeks ago I spoke out about the equity being in, maybe, an area that's going to be very, very
complex. And if we, as a board, can't define it and have a variety of different answers, it seems to
be quite a challenge on top of all the other challenges. So I do appreciate your answer. I guess I
almost asked it in a little bit of a jab to that strategic goal. So you, knowing me long enough, might
know that.
Then the next question is, this all originated, as far as I recall, because of a request by K.C. Becker.
Correct me if I'm wrong. But my question is, with this report now in stage two, or being more
refined, have we gotten a response from her?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So we did meet with her back in December.
It might have been early January. I'm sorry. I apologize. I can't remember exactly. But some time
in that time frame, we did present the information to her, and we have not heard anything back
since that time.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all my questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Ms. McKillop, thank you for further refining the
methodologies for this. I think it's helpful. As more people find out about this, I think it will more
feedback. And then Mr. Van Meter answered the questions that I had. That's it. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yes, I do have a couple of questions.
And I'm focused on packet page 28, the summary of revenue and costs, because I did want to
expand upon that a little bit and clear up one misunderstanding that may have been generated by
questions from Director Menten.
Specifically, and before I get into that, I have to ask Mr. Van Meter to clarify, please, when looking
at total costs by county stated in million dollars, am I correct that's not just, for FasTracks, a
construction cost? That's total cost, which would include, but not be limited to, construction. Is
that a correct understanding?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I'll answer that question. So that is correct.
On packet page 28, on those particular FasTracks costs, they include both operations-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Does Mr. Ford have a comment?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think they're having tactical technical issues.
DOUG TISDALE: Technical issues, OK. Thank you. I wanted to get back to the definition of the
shortest stick, or the shortest end of the stick. And there was reference made to Jefferson County
because the total subsidy, if you will, is a negative $37.5 million.
I went through, however, and I calculated, based upon every dollar that each county contributes to
the RTD, and comparing that with the dollars that were spent on that county by RTD, it's fair to
say, for example, that in Adams County, they get back $0.62 out of every dollar. Arapahoe County
gets back $0.82 on every dollar. Boulder County gets back $0.80 out of every dollar. Broomfield
is a little short. They only get back $0.46 out of every dollar. Jefferson county gets back $0.67 on
every dollar. And of course, Denver gets back $1.27 in terms of total cost spent as opposed to
every dollar they put in.
But Douglas County, Douglas County gets back $0.28 out of every dollar that it puts into the
system. No county gets back less than Douglas County in terms of the contribution to the system.
And that's taking the total cost of $14.6 million contrasted with the total revenue contributed of
$51.5 million.
I bring this up because at a number of meetings and town halls that I've had in Douglas County,
that has been brought home to me in painful and direct emphasis by a number of people that it's a
$0.28 benefit out of every dollar that they contribute to the system.
And I just want to ask that perhaps as we generate this chart in the future, we might consider,
instead of just using raw numbers, keeping your raw numbers, but also adding the percentage and
letting that be seen. And let me ask first, before I go off too far on this, whether my math is correct.
And I don't mean whether the calculation is correct-- I'm confident in that-- but rather whether my

assessment of taking total costs, and dividing that into total revenue contributed, that that's one
way of seeing how much each county gets back.
SHELLEY COOK: Heather McKillop, do you have any added factors, or can you corroborate
what he's saying?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is another way of looking at it, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's all that I have, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Thanks for the added info. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Director Tisdale just illustrated this. We could probably talk about this
for days, and I think I'd love every minute of it. No, thanks for the report. It's interesting to see
how these things play out. And one thing that I thought about when we were going through it, I'd
like to see a division between the east and the west side. Every other city I've lived in, the equity
issue has always been between the east and the west side, whether it's jobs or education, et cetera.
This is the first place I've lived that's had a north and south division.
But no, it's a huge conversation. We've been on for two hours already, so I'm good. Thank you
very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you. Kudos to staff on the graphics. They're very helpful. And I
do appreciate Director Tisdale's interpretation in addition. That was helpful as well. That's all.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think in a changing landscape in many, many
ways right now. And these are interesting statistics to look at. I don't know how relevant they're
going to be to where we're going in the future. But I appreciate the work that was put into making
it something that we could all get a hold of, and I have no other questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I read this packet, and the
first thing I'd like to say is thank you to Miss McKillop for the amount of work that she and her
team put into this information because it was quite thorough. But it really makes me think about
this whole process that we're involved in in terms of how fluid it is, these uncharted waters that we
are dealing with.
And so I think that we need to be careful when we're talking about equity and equality. And for
me, pursuing equity in transportation really means intentionally creating systems so that our most
disadvantaged populations can overcome institutional barriers, and to reach opportunity. So in the

long term, the goal should always be to remain to seek to remove systemic and institutional
barriers.
And looking at this, and being a native of Denver and a native of Colorado, and seeing how people
are utilizing our system, I agree with Director Tisdale in looking at the payback in terms of how
much each different municipality is paying into the district and what they're getting back.
And I think that this is a regional system for everybody. And as we're moving forward, we really
need to be conscientious of the fact that we serve the entire region, and that when we're looking at
these numbers and we're looking at equity across the whole system, there are so many factors that
we need to equate into it. One of them is gentrification. And the others, I have no idea what's going
to happen with COVID and how that's going to impact where our patrons live, work, play, and
how they're going to be interacting in the system.
So for me, as I look at these numbers, it's very fluid. And I think I want to take the side of caution
to make sure that I'm not digging my heels in because I think we're going to have to be
extraordinarily flexible. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All good comments. Thank you very much. I would only add that it was
good to see the per capita figures provided for many of the graphs. That kind of puts everything
on an apples to apples basis. I think the point made that you have different ways of looking at that
is valid. I would also add that you might consider that for the net subsidy item as well. So thank
you for bringing forward that really informative information to us. It's really a good bit of
information.
So with that, we'll move on to the next item. This is another update.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook? If I just might offer a resource, just because we've talked
about equity quite a bit, the Transit Center is actually offering an online event series called
"Centering Transit Equity During the Crisis and Beyond: Transit in COVID-19" on May 13, so
tomorrow at 2:00 PM Eastern time. I'm happy to send that out to the board. But it might just be a
resource for our board members who really want to learn more about equity and transit and
transportation justice during a pandemic. Just wanted to offer that resource.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that. Thank you for highlighting that. I'm sure Barbara
McManus would be happy to send that out to us if you get that to her.
OK. So now we're on to-- fortunately we didn't spend two hours on that one item. But we are two
hours into our meeting, and we have a really big issue on the agenda right here, update on the
revenue projections and cost reductions. Now we've gotten some of this information. They've been
working night and day to put it together. And so first, thank you to Heather and to your staff and
to Mr. Ballard and all.

Secondly, if you wouldn't mind highlighting some key pieces. But I would tell everybody that this
isn't the first time we're going to see this. It's perfectly good to ask a question offline or ask a
question that you understand will be brought back to us. And so Heather, you provided some initial
information, and then followed up with added information that's been circulated over the weekend,
and then again today.
Do you mind recapping that? And as you do that, it wouldn't hurt, to the extent we're talking tools
for addressing our COVID situation, if you wouldn't provide some definitions. Now that was
included on the staff report, and some of it is reiterated, for example, defining furlough, just so
that we're on the same page, to the extent we're talking about difficult things like that, if we all just
have that common understanding. So in your introduction, if you wouldn't mind highlighting that,
I'd appreciate it. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. No problem. Thank you very much. So yeah, a lot of information
in this packet. I understand that. Normally, when we'd be presenting information for a amended
budget, it would be very routine, a few changes to revenue here and a few changes to cost there.
But as we know, nothing is routine about what's going on right now.
So I did want to just kind of walk through how the first page after the board memo is laid out for
the estimated revenues and funding source shortfall, the chart. And then I'll go through some
definitional, kind of telling you what's in each of the exhibits and what the ideas were behind those
increases and reductions. But I will not go line by line for you because if you do have those
questions, I'd be glad to go through those with you on an individual basis.
But I did want to outline we have three scenarios. And this is consistent with what I had been
presenting as far as the three scenarios for revenues before. And that is a best case scenario and a
mid-case scenario and a worst case scenario. Scenario one is best case, scenario two, worst case,
scenario three, mid-case.
I do want to mention that when it comes to those revenues, we did get this Leeds forecast late
yesterday evening, and I just quickly went through that. We're going to spend some time with
Leeds on that on Thursday to interpret what they sent. But just to let you know, their best case
scenario is identical to my best case scenario, as far as the revenue. How that happened, I don't
know. I should go play the lottery today. But yeah, literally is identical.
Their worst case and mid-case is off slightly. They're slightly more optimistic than my numbers,
so we'll have to talk to them a little bit about that. But just to let you know, we are in the ballpark
with these numbers that I'm presenting to you tonight, just on a quick glance with Leeds. So that
made me feel a little bit better that we're on the right track, unfortunately, from a funding shortfall
perspective.
The next item that's listed is the CARES Act funding. So I just subtracted you know whatever the
revenue loss was from the amount of revenue that we would be getting through the CARES Act,
and then I listed a shortfall. So you can see, in the best case scenario, that there is a positive balance
if that were to materialize.

The worst case scenario, there is a negative balance of $23 million dollars we would need to make
up. And in the mid-case scenario, there's a positive amount of $3 million. What I did next was list
the additional costs that we are looking at having to incur for various reasons. And those are
outlined in the exhibit.
So the first one is the COVID-related expenses . As you can imagine, we're spending quite a bit
money on PPE equipment, on cleaning supplies. One of the things that this contains is an
assumption you guys talked about earlier, the polycarbonate divider, whatever that might look like.
I've made some assumptions about that cost in there.
So we do have an estimate, and this would be expenses just through 2020. And it's our best estimate
at this point in time. We then have administrative increases. Those are outlined in Exhibit A,
additional increase in cost and operations, which is also in Exhibit A.
Projects are in Exhibit B. And so one of the things I wanted to point out here was there is a very
large number in the administrative line. If you were to go to Exhibit A, you would see that was a
result of both the pension and health and welfare for represented employees. We did miss that in
the budgeting process. That got booked on the accounting side but was not caught on the budgeting
side. We are making sure that does not happen again. But it is an expense that we must cover, and
so that is included in there. There's also a detailed list of the other requests for increases in Exhibit
A.
We did note in here that we had to make some assumptions to give you the best estimate of where
we might land. And so we made an assumption that the pandemic service would be assumed to go
through June 30. And then after that, we would migrate, and in this scenario, migrate, like,
overnight, even though that's not really going to happen, to the May adopted service change, and
that those levels that are identified in the May service change would extend all the way through
the end of the year.
So again, probably not reality in that we wouldn't bring back everything overnight. But I wanted
to make sure we had enough revenue if that were the case, and that we had enough revenue to
extend the May operational levels, or the hours of service, all the way through the end of the year.
So I would say these cost numbers are fairly conservative from that standpoint.
Then under funding sources, we have identified on Exhibit C the administrative reductions. So you
can see in there, we went line by line, and the operational reductions are also in that same exhibit
that's attached. There was a little discussion about philosophy. I think if you look at where the
reductions are coming from, we identified all the things that we thought we needed to give up such
as temporary personnel, reductions in security services with the GSOs because we're not running
as much service for a period of time.
We also identified giving up on travel and overtime as it relates to both the salary side and the
operational side. And I will talk a little bit later about the overtime issue that we identified in the
memo that I think went out yesterday or today to you guys. Director Cook had some very direct
questions on that, so we gave a more detailed explanation.

Then on projects, we identified savings there. I did want to point out there-- and I pointed that out,
I think, in the cover letter or in the responses to Director Cook-- that most of those projects on
Exhibit B are closed, completed. They were completed either at the end of last year, and we didn't
have the information in time for the 2020 budget, or they've been closed this year as far as the
work has been completed.
The only two areas that that is not necessarily the case is the downtown track and switches
replacements project. That will come through the asset management program in future years. And
then the Oracle ERP upgrade. That was the first [AUDIO OUT] from a budgeting perspective, but
also from the perspective of we don't have the manpower in either IT or other places to complete
that project this year-- or not complete, but to continue the work at the level because we're
implementing Workday this year, which has consumed a lot of manpower.
So that's the reductions. I did not put the reductions against each of the scenarios because I had
received feedback that the board would like to just look at what the reductions are first before staff
makes their recommendation in June as to what we would fund.
On the furlough side, we have done some calculations for all employees. And this is both salaried,
non-represented, represented employees, all employees. We did a calculation, and per furlough
day, we would save about $740,000. And that was based on 2019 payroll. So we took all of 2019
and calculated what that amount would be since 2020 is pretty close to our payroll levels for 2019.
Now one of the questions that came up was does that number include any reductions we'd see in
contributions to the pension, et cetera? No, it does not. But those numbers would be quite small
because in some instances, we don't make a per employee, based on their salary, contribution. It's
a lump sum contribution. But there would be some additional savings, just not a lot.
So with that, I will define a few things. Again, just want to point out Exhibit A would be the
increases request that we receive through this process. Exhibit B would be all the capital projects
that we had received either increases or reduction. And I might just mention the two projects that
we're seeing the increased requests for on Exhibit B, those might change slightly. We're looking
for other options there.
And then in Exhibit C are all the reductions. I did want to point out been in the administrative area,
the reductions total about another 10%. If you add that on to the 10% that was reduced to balance
the 2020 budget, we're at about a 20% reduction in administrative costs.
Just wanted to point out a few things that were brought up. Oh, and I wanted to say one of the
things I put in my memo is even though there is a positive balance in scenarios one and three, we
may want to look at making sure that we still look at these reductions that are proposed going
forward because we do know that 2021, we will be going into that with a much lower sales and
use tax and fare base, and the percentages that we had estimated from the September 2019 forecasts
are going to be much different.

Now what that exact dollar amount is, I haven't looked at the Leeds forecast. I just looked at the
2020 number. But I can tell you that it will be lower. So anything we can do in 2020 to help out
2021, we probably should consider.
So let me just do the definitions real quick. So I think there's been a little bit-- maybe not-- but a
little bit of confusion between the difference between a layoff, a furlough. And so what I identified- very short definition in the board memo, but also in the questions, if you could look at those when
you get a chance, that I responded to Director Cook's question.
Now the basic difference is a layoff is a permanent separation. We actually separate the employee
from employment with RTD. They then become eligible for unemployment, and there is no
guarantee that we will ever bring that employee back again. So if we would need to rehire, we
wouldn't necessarily rehire that particular employee. It could be a different employee. The
employee would lose all benefits because they would be terminated at the end of the month in
which they are laid off. So it's a very permanent type thing.
Furloughs, on the other hand, is a mandatory temporary leave of absence. So it can be a day at a
time. It could be a week at a time. It could be a day every three weeks. It could be a day every
week. It just really is up to the employer and what works best for their particular operational area.
The employee does retain all benefits, so their health care, they're still paying the same amount.
The employer's still paying the same amount. Pension benefits are the same. Now there might be
a slight reduction based on the contributions based on salary because salaries will be slightly less
because there will be a pay reduction due to the furlough. But the pay reduction is not permanent.
The big benefit of a furlough when it comes, particularly to-- there are a lot of benefits to the
employee-- but the big benefit to the organization is really, if we were to lay off employees, we
then have to either hire new ones when the time comes to restore service, and then we're paying
training costs, we have to pay for their medical, we pay for their drug testing, all of those type of
things.
So it is definitely, if we're looking at the need for budgetary purposes, probably the furlough is a
better way to go. Also, there is a provision and law that does allow for governments to furlough
employees in the case of a budget reduction. So it is legal for us to do furloughs as a government
agency in the case that we have a budget crisis, which I think we're kind of in.
I did give you some examples here. I just was trying to come to an even number. So an approximate
5% reduction in pay would be equivalent to 13 furlough days based on our 2019 payroll. So that
just gives you an order of magnitude. There are other options, potentially a permanent pay cut, or
temporary. At least in my history of doing these type of activities, furloughs tend to be better
received by the employee. None of these are going to be received well by any employee. But in
the scheme of things, it's a temporary pay reduction over time, and they actually get a day off, or
they have to take a day off in lieu of getting that pay.
I don't know what that was. So one of the things I was asked, what else are we considering? So for
2021, we do have a few more options available and in the pay realm. We can do no pay raises. For

instance, this year, remember, we reduced the pool of money available for non-represented
employees. There's always the option of reducing that further, or having no pool, for 2021, which
would be for performance in 2020.
We do have other opportunities with the CBA that we currently don't have in 2020. The CBA
expires in 2021, so there is flexibility to negotiate pay raises, or lack thereof, in the CBA. And
there's always opportunities to talk about the pension, which we had considerable discussion on
this last year.
So those are tools in our tool box for 2021. So I did want to define that.
The other thing that came up a lot about, and I think you'll find kind of an explanation in there, is
about the overtime. We did really look at the overtime expenses for bus and light rail. One of the
things we mention in here is light rail was actually over in their overtime budget-- over in their
overtime, I guess. I don't know if that's a double negative or not.
But anyway, they were over in their overtime because we have really ramped up classes on-- or
we were ramping up classes prior to the COVID-- and that was requiring a lot of overtime of
existing employees because we had not planned to do classes at that level.
In addition, as you know, we had a considerable amount of mandating on light rail, more than we
had anticipated. And currently we have a lot of employees that we're using for service and cleaning
that have not made it through training yet because we're having to slow down the training classes
on rail because of the social distancing, the need to make sure we have the N95 masks, those type
of things. So we are not seeing savings of overtime from light rail because of those type of issues
of already being over budget.
However, depending on how long the COVID run board goes on, we may or may not see some
overtime savings going forward. And then we already had the conversation on the bus time, that
we are not doing mandating or volunteering for overtime, necessarily. But we do have overtime
built into our regular run schedules, so you are going to see overtime.
Now we did make some reductions on the overtime side on bus, and that was related to the fact
that we should have some reduced service levels during the pandemic. The question is, how long
does that last?
The other thing I wanted just to point out is that we don't have to fix everything, potentially, in this
amended budget that we're going to present in June, and then ask for you to adopt in July. Things
are changing so rapidly from a revenue perspective, and also a cost perspective, not knowing when
we'll be able to start charging fares and when social distancing might ease up a little bit, and do
we need to wear masks all the way through the end of whenever.
So we do have opportunity. The board has the ability to pass additional budget changes between
when we do the amended and the end of the year. So I just want to make sure that that's clear
because where we're looking at this is we may have to make additional changes, good or bad, in
the fall sometime, maybe September, August, September time frame. So I do want to make sure

the board is aware that whatever decision we end up making for the amended budget is set in stone
for the rest of the year. We do have the ability to work through those issues going forward.
So with that, Madam Chair, I've said enough, and I will open it up for questions.
SHELLEY COOK: No, it's very helpful. Thank you. And does any other staff member have
anything to add here?
OK. What I'd like to propose for the questions and the answers, I wanted to go around one time
and limit our questions to, say, three. And then I'll ask on a second round if people have additional
questions or comments that they want to offer. But for this first go round, so we kind of keep it
moving, if we can, let's keep our individual questions or comments to three. So I'll start with
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I guess the only question I would have is could you maybe summarize for us where
you expect our fund balances to be at the year end if these changes are made.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So actually, that's a good question that I didn't address. I have not, in
any of these scenarios, proposed to, either through the reductions or increase, using any of your
current reserves. So those reserve balances-- actually, I need to look it up real quick. But if you
can go on the next question, I will look up those reserve balances and let you know where we are.
I think I have it handy.
But none of these scenarios use up or dip into our current reserve balances, and that was done
purposely because we're not sure what the future holds. So as much as reductions as we can take
now, I think, would benefit us going forward without having to dip into those reserves now. But
while somebody else is talking, I will look that up real quick.
BOB BROOM: The other question I have is how much notice are we required to give under our
union contract if we're going to impose furlough days?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So currently there is no provision for furlough days in our union
contract. But Michael Ford has approached the union, and I've also talked to them, about the fact
that we're looking at furlough days versus layoffs. And so there isn't necessarily a provision for
number of days for that before we have to give notice.
Now if we were to do layoffs, I believe it's 60 days. Maybe General Counsel can chime in on that
one. But I believe it's 60 days for layoffs. But for furloughs, we would have to negotiate that with
the union.
BOB BROOM: OK. That's all I have. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Moving on. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. No question. Just a comment. And thanks, Heather, for these updates.
And they've been coming fast and frequently. And I guess if we wait 15 more minutes, we'll get

some new information. But it's good to have what we have when we have it, right? So I appreciate
you staying on top of this. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Heather, there has been some push for providing
hazard pay for our operators. And I was wondering if you had done any kind of analysis if that
were to be implemented.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I have not done any calculations. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. This is
Heather McKillop. No, I have not done any calculations on that. But it just would increase the
shortfall that we have and probably the number of furlough days, potentially.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just wanted to understand the trade-off, so I appreciate that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Catlin. More? Any more questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I muted my line too soon. Thank you. That was all.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. No, thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Great job, Heather. Thank you very much. No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Heather. This is really helpful. I would support you in what
you were saying that we really need to look at 2021 and assume lowered revenues there, too, so
that we plan ahead not necessarily with the worst in mind, but keeping our eye on that, and figuring
that this may well be the only money we get from the Feds, and we need to think about it in the
longer term as well.
The Exhibit B, I just had one quick question. What are the local government requests, $825,000?
That's just a variety of projects?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So really what that is is we have money that we set aside when
we need to match local governments' requests for SIP proposals. And that particular time has come
and gone in that we know what those are and what we have committed to doing. And so this is the
money that's available, freed up after we made those commitments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Thanks, Heather, for putting this together. Heather, I had
a conversation with Mr. Ballard offline about the furloughs, and maybe approaching that from a

tiered approach, and so maybe thinking about folks who--and I'm just doing this number out here.
You all might have a better understanding.
If you have employees who make 60% or less, maybe they don't have to take furloughs-- or
$60,000. Excuse me, $60,000 or less-- don't have to take furloughs. And those who may be
between, like, $60,000 and $150,000 take 13 furloughs, and those who make higher than that may
take an additional hit, really just trying to spread this out to folks who are maybe not making as
much money in the agency. I wonder if you all had any discussion about how you might take a
tiered approach to furloughing folks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Mr. Ballard did share that information with me on that discussion. I
have not had an opportunity to run a tiered approach yet. But that is something that is on my radar
to look at. But I have not done that analysis yet, and what that would look like.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I would really like to see what that could look like them. It would help
me in my understanding. I'm trying to keep myself to the three questions because actually, I have
a number of questions here.
But my second question is actually about the pandemic pay or hero pay or enhanced pay, whatever
we like to call it. I know you said you didn't run any numbers. But if you could, what that could
potentially look like, because I do think that our front line staff truly deserve pandemic pay during
a time where they are being exposed to COVID-19 while on the job, especially considering we
don't have all the PPE or sanitation that we might have to protect them properly. So I'd just be
curious if you could run those numbers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, I can look at that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I ask that because I-- go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. No, I was saying go ahead, third question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then the next request is just a general request. As we talked about
what our philosophy is, what our principles are, whatever, our values, whatever term we want to
use, I think it is worth maybe sitting down in a study session to really talk about what this looks
like, what can we realistically afford, what level of service we can afford, what it looks like to
operate safely, and how do we prioritize those that are most vulnerable during this time.
So we talked a bit about equity, but I do think we just need to maybe help our board really
understand what the damage is and how we might make this have an opportunity to decide what
our priorities are in understanding what the damage is. And I personally think this would also
provide us-- and I know there some directors who don't support pandemic pay-- but I do think it
provides us an opportunity to prioritize our front line workers and to look at our budget in a way
that allows us to prioritize our front line workers by providing them with pandemic pay.
I'll stick to the three, Director Cook, but I just would really love to see staff explore that. But I
would also love us, as a board, to have a meeting where we can really dig into some of these things.

MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford. If I could comment on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. In a communication group that I lead, we were talking about employee
recognition and maybe looking at ways we could address the issue that Director Lewis just brought
up about incentive pay, or how people are getting compensated for the extraordinary valor in terms
of their work. And there's other ways that we're looking at that right now.
So I've got a committee. that we discussed it today. And they may be looking at sponsorships,
other partnerships that we might be able to engage in to think about this more creatively. And I'll
keep you posted, but we just had some discussion today about it, and I thought I would just offer
that as a comment to some of the continued questions about hazardous pay and things that we
could do as an organization.
I know Miss McKillop hasn't any opportunity to really run numbers. And again, that just takes
away from our budget woes right now. So we're looking at some other ways in which we can
maybe address that. So I just offer that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. Moving on to Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I do have some comments and questions. One, I really, really approve
Director Lewis's idea of looking into tiered furloughs based on equity issues. I just love that idea.
So hopefully that can be looked into.
My major concern is that we seem to be in a little bubble. I mean, Boulder County has furloughed
x amount of people. Some other county has furloughed x amount of people. And RTD hasn't been.
And it's almost like-- I'm just concerned that we're not operating with real prudence. And I don't
say that lightly.
And I'm just concerned that we've got, for instance, the CARES Act funding, but do we have to
use it all at once? I mean, we may not get any more. Can we use it next year, and not just assume
that it's beating us up, all of it, for this year? And would it be prudent to be able to do that? I wonder
if it would be.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So can I answer this? This is Heather. I can answer that question. So our
instructions, both at the federal and the local FTA level, has been please spend it as quickly as you
can, or get reimbursed as quickly as you can. There is no expiration, but I think there's a concern
that the money isn't expended, that it will be perceived that it's not needed, and therefore there is
always the possibility of it being taken away.
So I think that's why we would like to get reimbursed for our expenditures. And remember, it's not
new money as far as it's replacing revenue we've lost to cover. And we have to actually have
expended the funds before we can get reimbursed. So I think where we are going from is, if we
have the expenditures but get reimbursed, and then if there are dollars available at the end of the

year, we will carry those dollars through. But those dollars will be in our hands earning interest on
our side instead of in the Feds' hands earning interest on their side.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you for that. And I appreciate that additional information. And I
appreciate that. But I still have concerns about our prudence in a situation that's totally unknown,
really, and very dangerous financially. And I'm just concerned that we're plowing forward, and
almost continuing as if things haven't changed that much other than that there is a 20%
administrative cut, which is a big deal.
But I'm just concerned that we're using that money almost as a cushion without taking care of
business in some other way. Like for instance, should we, in prudence, be assuming that we're not
going to spend all of that $232 million this year and make some personnel cuts? And what would
they look like? Would it be furloughs? Could it be something like benefit cuts?
I would like to see a comparison of, instead of, maybe, some furloughs, some benefit cuts. But I
would like to see that as what our options could be because I'm just concerned that we're moving
along-- how shall I say it-- so many agencies and so many organizations have had so many more
cuts than we have. And that hasn't happened with us. And I don't think things are going to get
much better very quickly. I don't have a crystal ball. But the world doesn't look so safe out there,
and I just want to make sure that we're acting as prudently as we can.
OK. I think that's about it. Oh, yes, and the last point is that I do think that we're in a different
world than we had before and that our organizational structure really needs to be looked at. The
world that we had before had more money and more security. For instance, I don't know if we're
going to need that many events nowadays, or in the next year or two. And we have a lot of people
to deal with events. So I think we need to look at our organization to see if the changed times
deserve a changed organizational structure.
That's it for me for now. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes. I would like to comment about the furlough days. And
one of the original suggestions that had come about was addressing these as soon as possible. And
I'm concerned that if we're talking about June and July to have those discussions, then we're acting
too late.
I think things are going to continue to steamroll downhill. We've got the report out of the Golden
Dome today on unemployment, and that's just on unemployment claims. We don't really know
how far it's going to go for the amount of businesses that are going to close up, I think enough for
some of us who don't cry often to maybe shed some tears.
And we, as an agency, I kind of agree that we're sitting back and we're not acting fast enough. And
one of the original proposals was tiered furloughs with seven days in tier one spread over weeks,
and then a second tier, potentially also seven days, spread over weeks. And that does not seem like

a huge impact compared to the amount of people who are sitting with zero income, businesses
closing, unable to open, operating on minimal business because of mandated orders.
And so that is one of the greatest concerns that I've got in this discussion is that we, the board, are
being asked to sit back and wait and wait when we are supposed to be addressing this situation.
And I am concerned also that right now I don't know enough about what of that CARES money is
going into capital expenditures to put in some long range investments such as the polycarbonate,
perhaps reading about different factories who are putting in sanitization units. And what are we
looking at for those capital investments? Looking at the trends of viruses that go around, I think it
might be well worth our investment with some of that money to look at those things.
And so those are my thoughts. I don't know that I have the patience for June or July. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Miss McKillop. I know the budgeting
process is complicated in just a normal year. I appreciate all the work and detail in this. I would
just like to add that on top of the idea of the tiered furlough, and not necessary just limiting it to a
certain number of days. I know there's a lot of entities that you can buy additional vacation days.
So I view this as something similar.
And there may be people who wouldn't mind taking two weeks, particularly if we did what Director
Menten said and kind of accelerated the timeline of this. Summer's coming up. Kids will officially
be out of school, and so maybe there's people that want to take more than the prescribed tier that
they might fall into. So certainly thanks for you that you'll work out the SLT and everything like
that. I would just encourage you to be creative with it.
And then I also appreciate the conservative approach of not utilizing the reserve funds now. I think
that's very prudent, and I appreciate that. And I think that's all the comments I have. Thanks.
Thank you, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale?
Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Two observations. First, last Tuesday, the APTA legislative
steering committee did approve an approximate $25 billion request for additional emergency
funding to go to Congress with a detailed explanation of how we arrived at that number, taking
information from each transit agency that responded to our request, showing the actual hard dollars
that were being lost, and with the proposal that 80% of that amount be distributed on an as needed
basis, and that 20% of that amount would be distributed on a formula basis, which is what we did
for the CARES Act.
That was submitted to Congress on Friday. Admittedly, that's probably a long shot, but it is out
there. And to address Director Menten's question, both the CARES Act and this request do, in fact,
allow for capital expenses as part of the federal funding.

The second thing is actually a question for Ms. McKillop. And that is, is there any thought among
local governments, municipalities, counties, and others to address now the flexibility of utilizing
TABOR reserves? We may never get a more receptive electorate than we have now to the question
of saying TABOR reserves are artificially constrained and can be utilized in emergent
circumstances such as present themselves here.
And I'm just wondering if you've heard anything at all relative to people talking about the ability
of TABOR reserves to backfill some of the types of shortfalls that we all are experiencing in
government.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. There's been chat in several CFO-- I don't
know what you call them-- chat rooms that I'm on about that would be fabulous if we could. If
there's ever a good time to use them would be now. But to my knowledge, there has been no
discussion at the legislature or to do some type of constitutional change in how we can use those
funds. So that might be a question that we can follow up with Brandeberry-McKenna on to see if
they've heard anything of those likes at the state level.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. I just think that it's something that we should keep in our
quiver and shoot at some time when it's appropriate. And I thank you, Madam Chair. That's all that
I had at this time.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you so much. Dr. Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't have a question, just a comment. And I just want to let staff know
that I appreciate the effort that they're making to not furlough, or definitely not lay off anybody. I
know from other businesses that I interact with that's always the last resort. And so they'll try and
put off capital improvements or O&M projects as long as they can, and letting employees go
temporarily or permanently is usually looked at when the back is against the wall. So that's it.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. I echo Director Walker's statement wholeheartedly. I also just wanted
to say I appreciate Mr. Ford's input regarding the employee recognition. I think those are the kind
of things that go a long way, and I look forward to hearing more about how that program or
programs may be offered up. That's all for now. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also want to tell Heather how much I appreciate
the work that she and her team are doing. I can't imagine trying to keep up with it right now. But I
have a couple comments.
At the state level and at the county level, you're talking about a 20% to 25% reduction across the
board in everything. And all over, companies are cutting back. Airline pilots are looking to come
drive trains for RTD because everything is being reduced. And as Director Lubow said and

Director Menten said, we need to look at what is really going on. We're a transportation agency,
and our purpose is to provide transportation as best we can and as needed.
And our service is probably going to be a long time coming back to levels that it used to be. And
work from home plays into that. And we may have another lockdown this fall. So I think we need
to be realistic in what we look at in relation to what is going on around us. And I agree with
Director Menten. I don't think that we can wait. I think we need to move faster to look at where
we stand. And that's just my opinion. I'm glad Heather has her job, and not me. That's all I have.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Williams. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I couldn't agree with Director
Williams, Whitmore, and Walker more. You know, I think that January 7 seems like 10 years ago.
It's just been amazing to me how elongated time has become in such a very short period of time.
But I have a question for Mr. Ford. An this has to do with hazard pay and our CBA. Is it prohibitive
for us to pay hazard pay to front line workers according to our CBA?
MICHAEL FORD: It's Michael Ford, the COO. I don't think there's any provision that I'm aware
of. I think it's a financial issue. That's why we're trying to look at creative ways to maybe address
it from a different aspect.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. And then I think secondarily, what I am very
concerned about is the projection that we may have a second run at this virus going out of control
in July or August. And how is that going to impact our ability to provide service, and then our
budget as well?
And so I guess, for me, this is a very, very fluid document, and this is a very, very fluid time in the
history of our world, actually. But as a board director, how do we work within those parameters to
ensure stability for our services that we are able to provide to the community?
And I think we have a whole array of things we're going to have to look at on a regular basis. And
I don't know about all of you, but for me, June is less than two weeks away. It's just amazing to
me how slow and how fast time is going, and how fluid it is, and how it changes dramatically from
moment to moment. And so clearly are on uncharted waters.
But I think for me, I want to really just kind of look at the possibilities of looking outside of what
we have always looked at traditionally because I think we're going to have to be very untraditional
to provide services to the community. And I don't know when we're going to get back to our
ridership as it was. I don't know what kind of impact telecommuting is going to have in terms of
mass transit. But I do know that we're going to have to sit down and really kind of put some paper
down and write out some equations and see how we move forward.
So the only consoling thing I can think of is that we're all in this together. It's not just RTD, it's the
city of Denver, it's the state of Colorado. It's every municipality is in these uncharted waters. And
I think it's going to take all of us to kind of take a deep breath and figure out how we move forward

and how we become the stewards of money to make sure that we're flexible to meet the needs of
where we're at in terms of our environment. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. And I'll add my own comments here. One quick question,
though, before that. Director Tisdale brought up the idea of the use of the TABOR funds. I was
under the impression that a lot of what we are dedicating is actually assets, building assets and
such. Is that true? How much of that-- I think it was a 3% reserve-- is actually liquid for us, Heather
McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: About half of that. A little more than half is liquid.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. So I'll just add my thoughts here. You know, there
have been several people who have mentioned we're facing uncharted territory. We're trying to
navigate, kind of feeling as we go. We need to assume a changed world. I think that's true.
And the worry I have about the $232 million is that we'll look at it as a backfill. The natural
tendency is to just use that to replace what we see as shortfall now, and then kind of take up 2021,
hopefully having done what Heather McKillop suggests in terms of making some cuts now. But I
think we almost need to say, OK, let's not look at it as backfilling and helping out this year, but
consider the multi-year piece. I'm echoing some of what other people have talked about.
And secondly-- and this is the hard part-- but to the extent you suggest that we go ahead and assume
the reductions, even though some of your scenarios are positive, I'm going to suggest that we go
ahead and pursue the idea of furloughs. And this would buy us some wherewithal to establish a
better foundation for this new, changed world.
So just by way of example, Natalie Menten has talked about investments, and Director Tisdale
verified that capital is allowed under the CARES Act and any subsequent potential one. If we're
looking at outfitting new vehicles with enclosures, what if we, instead, as part of our pandemic
response, get ahead of that and make the investment in retrofitting all of the vehicles, which would
help to ensure that we can continue to operate and protect our drivers, add space within the vehicle
for social distancing for our passengers, et cetera. So it's making those kinds of strategic decisions
now that carry beyond just getting reimbursed that may help to make us more resilient going
forward.
So Director Lubow and Director Guissinger and I have been kind of talking about some different
ways of establishing a framework for thinking about things. But the most concrete thing that's
come out of that so far-- and I'm just going to reflect this back and then open it back up to the
board for any additional comments because I want to make sure I'm characterizing or capturing
the sentiment of the board properly-- but we've talked to everybody, I believe, except for Director
Walker. So I'm glad he did chime in to talk about the issue of the furloughs and hoping not to do
that.
But I believe that, along a spectrum of wanting to explore, having some concerns, having questions
to other people who think we need to move ahead more quickly, perhaps, to the tiered situation

that Director Lewis and Director Menten had talked about, or maybe a flat number of days, one
per pay period or something, commencing as quickly as possible.
So along that spectrum, I found a good, solid majority of people, 10 or 11 or 12, who think we
ought to at least get information about pursuing that sooner than later, and regardless of the
scenario we appear to be moving towards. In other words, not just waiting to see that we're in the
worst case scenario or something, but moving ahead on that idea right now.
And so I want to open it back up to the board just to make sure, because that's such a key piece. Is
it correct to say that, generally speaking, we want to see more information, ideas about the tiering.
What about furloughs that involve non-represented? What does it take to move towards a furlough
with the CBA? Bring forward concerns about the pandemic pay versus that. They may be at odds.
So just wanting to get a sense from the board. Are there any directors who want to chime in or
want to counter that? And I'm just trying to reflect and provide useful feedback and guidance to
the staff about a pretty critical issue. So I'll go ahead and open it back up and go around once. Go
ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. After you're done, I did want to add a
couple things. So if I could just get an opportunity to address a few things after you're done.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So first point is to just make sure I've captured it. Also, to ask board
members if they have any follow-up questions since everybody was so kind in limiting their
questions to three. So I'll go quickly around if that's OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: The only other thing that comes to my mind is on the furloughs of operators is I'd
hate to get into a situation where we're furloughing operators, but then we have to use mandatory
overtime to cover their shifts in order to provide the service that we told the public that we're going
to provide. So in other words, we lose money by furloughing people under that scenario.
But I do agree that if we're going to do something, we should do it fairly quickly because I think
most employees are probably expecting something like this. I mean, you'd have to be living I don't
know where not to expect that the board's going to take some kind of action to conserve resources.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I'm in favor of the staff looking hard at furlough
options, and sooner rather than later. This concept that was thrown out there about this tiered
furlough, I would ask that our Acting General Counsel take a look at this because you may get
some clever plaintiff employment discrimination attorney saying that this tiered furlough is
nothing more than discrimination disguised as a financial decision.
For example, if all of the employees in tier one are under the age of 40, all of the employees in tier
three are over the age of 40, we will, of course, say it was a financial decision, but somebody might
say there's incredible discriminatory impact there. So I'd ask Jenifer Ross-Amato to see if a tiered
approach wouldn't open us up to EEO issues. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Dr. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Actually, Director Broom posed the question, or the concern
that I was going to express. So that was all I had. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, not at this time, Madam Chair. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks. A couple of comments. I saw some numbers late this
afternoon that I think will go out to everyone tomorrow that the Office of Legislative Counsel and
the Governor's Office of State Planning and Budgeting are forecasting an even bigger revenue
shortfall for the state, $3.3 billion or more for 2020 2021.
So I think we do have to prepare. We have to hope for the best and prepare for something else. I
guess on the specific question, I like the idea of moving forward soon with information on
furloughs or tiered furloughs, and see what we can put together. We obviously want to keep people
working if we can. And it is a situation in the world where many, many people are taking these
kinds of temporary furloughs.
In terms of one thing that's been raised a couple times, Director Lewis and Director Lubow and
Director Cook worked hard on a start for some principles for how we move forward, as a board,
giving policy guidance to the staff. And Director Lubow and I both were working on that some.
And I'd really like to get more feedback on it. I think it could be expanded, and give us a more
strategic way to help staff move forward. So I'd like to see us move that forward. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Really, what a lot of folks have said-- and I'll just restate
it because I think it's really important. And I think I'm a broken record at this point with some of
these issues. And so I'll just say that and own that.
But I just think it's important for us to really determine what our priorities are, what our principles
are, and what we can afford realistically, and to put everything on the table. And I think that's an
opportunity for the board, for us, to really decide what makes the most sense.
I mean, prior to COVID we had buses that were operating in places that people weren't actually
riding those services, and so I think that has to be on the table. I think the N Line has to be on the
table. When we talk about reductions and we only talk about reductions in this vacuum, and they're
not applied to principles, I just have a really hard time with it.
And so I would just ask for us to really explore, in a very real way, furloughs, for us-- to Director
Mihalik's point-- to look at how could we potentially buy out folks who are close to retirement? Is

that cheaper than furloughing folks? I don't know, but it's something that we should grapple with
as a board and as an agency, and really getting back to these priorities.
And I do think-- we've talked about pandemic pay and not being able to afford folks, and then in
the same breath we talk about how quickly we need to spend money. And so which one is it? We
also had a conversation, when we were doing reductions, on how the reductions were going to
save us money, and that was going to be a strategy to save us money. I imagine that the reductions
we had during the pandemic provide some opportunities.
And so I would really just like to have us grapple with it quickly, as many directors have said, and
really aligning ourselves, as a board, as an agency, to say, these are our principles. This is we
believe in. And for me personally, I believe we need to prioritize our front line employees and the
safety of our riders. And I think we have to look at our service standards. So that's it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Dr. Lewis. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And thank you for your suggestion, Director. I very much appreciate
this very practical discussion about what we should do about furloughs. I also support staff looking
into, in a very practical way, what are our options with furloughs. And as far as I'm concerned, is
there a possibility to have a different process for operators than there would be for everybody else
because we have different needs with them. And I don't know how to look at it like that, but perhaps
there could be different classes.
And I personally think that there might be some comparative ways to also save money and make
ourselves more resilient, such as different benefit cuts. And so I would like to see a comparison
with different benefit cuts and furloughs.
I also really, really like the idea of looking into and analyzing and creating principles that we, as a
board and an agency, want to use in moving forward with these reductions and changes. That's it.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So to start with, what's fresh in my head is, thinking back to
November, before we were in this world, is the mid-term financial plan, and thinking about how
we didn't even know how we would cover operations and maintenance of the existing system. And
so our problems go pretty deep, in my view.
And when we look at the projections, I do focus in on the worst case scenario. That's the safest
place to put the crystal ball. And so I feel very strongly on we're looking, in my view, in the worst
case again. So I am very supportive of moving forward, and rapidly, quickly, with a discussion,
getting the feedback on the furlough discussion, again, because we have some deep-rooted
problems.
And I think this is also an ideal time to perhaps revisit the discussion about a sub-audit committee,
which I think was recommended back in 2010 when the state auditor did a review of the Regional

Transportation District. And also thinking of the recent letter from Jared Polis, who suggested that
we have some accountability committee in relation to the operations of the agency, but also, in
specific, he mentioned the CARES Act money. And I know I would be willing to raise my hand
and volunteer for such a committee. And I think this is a really good time that we, perhaps, revisit
that subject.
So I hope we can get something on the furloughs, like, ASAP because this conversation really has
been hanging around us, as a board, starting about March 25. So we're past the point of this being
a fresh topic. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I have nothing further at this time.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I truly appreciate the opportunity to have
this discussion concerning a very sensitive subject in an open forum like this rather than being
presented with an arbitrary proposal that we would have to take action on one way or the other. I
look forward to more information.
I do agree it is time sensitive and that we should move it forward. And if it needs to come forward
under the guise of another committee, and not necessarily in the context of the finance and audit
committee, that we do that because it is something that is very significant. And I want to make
sure that we don't have unintended consequences that flow from taking a too sudden action. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Yeah, I agree. It's fine to have the conversation, but it's really
important, I'm sure, for staff to make sure that the right positions are vacated temporarily so that
when service is needed, they can respond quickly around whatever schedule a furloughed
employee might be on.
I also think that any discussion about furloughing employee needs to be accompanied by a
discussion about the compensation for RTD's directors. There was a CEO for Goodyear decades
ago who said any reduction in salary staff or exempt and non-exempt staff needs to be followed
with a reduction in compensation by the CEO and board and any other higher ups in the company.
So I think the board is part of that. So I'd gladly make that phone call to any of our state legislators
or state senators to put that ball in motion also, so we'll be side by side with any employee than
might be facing a loss in compensation. That's it. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing more to add. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think I've said all I need to say. I'm looking
forward to having some action happen here.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I think that listening to
everybody tonight just really makes me proud about how every board member on this phone call,
all 14 board members, have a real commitment to serving our community, and that it's not just one
board member, but it's our collective voices that are saying that we're ready to take this on in
collaboration with our staff to make sure that our agency is the best agency in the country. That's
the first thing.
I agree with Director Walker. I think we need to step up to and say that we would take a reduction
in our pay as well to show solidarity with our employees who are having to be furloughed. We
serve at the pleasure of our communities. And I think that we are all committed to community.
That's why we ran for the board. We have a lot of hard decisions to make. We have to work
together. And I think this is our time to really think outside of the box and to try some new things.
And I cannot thank Miss McKillop and her staff, and Mr. Ballard and Mr. Ford and Mr. Worthen
them and Mr. Meader enough for the incredible work that they have put in for the last couple of
months that we have been in this actual nightmare. And it's going to take all of us collectively to
move it forward. And Miss McManus and her team, John McKay and Tai-Shrae and Nicky, have
done an amazing job.
And so I think we have the right team together to move forward with some real innovative ideas.
And I know we're going to be successful in it. So I just want to say thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we need that voice right now. And I want
to add my thanks to all the people who have just worked night and day throughout the agency to
assure that we can continue service and so forth. And so I'm glad you said that, and I want to
reinforce that.
I wanted to highlight one thing. I agree we board members have a role in terms of making
reduction, or even if it's symbolic. I wanted to make sure people know that we don't make big
bucks. We make $1,000 a month. And so it's important for us to be part of the solution. But I didn't
want it to be thought out there that we make a lot of money. We don't. So I just wanted to add that
clarification.
And Heather McKillop, you wanted some time to respond here, so I'm going to turn it over to you,
please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So there were a lot of suggestions that people made tonight. And
I've tried to write them all down. I'm sure my staff has written some of them down. So we'll follow

up with answers to those questions, like did we the barriers in the COVID numbers, and did we
look at early retirement, and all those type of things we have looked at.
So I also have the numbers for the reserves, so I'll put that in a response to questions. So I'll try to
put together some of the questions. And then for the calculations that we haven't run yet, I will get
those done and get those out to the board so everybody can see those.
Oh, we've also looked at things like how would we implement that with operators and not do
overtime, because that would kind of defeat the whole purpose. So I'll make sure we summarize
that for you guys.
The other thing is to let you know that we originally had it scheduled that we would adopt the
amended budget in June, but with the comments I had received last month that the board wanted
more time to explore things, we moved that back to July. I will be ready to move forward in June
if that's the board's desire with an amended budget.
So I wanted to put that out there that that is something my staff and I talked about just this morning,
as a matter of fact, that if the board wants to move sooner rather than later, we are prepared to do
that work to get that done.
So that's what I had to wrap it up. And I probably won't get the answers out tomorrow, but by the
end of the week, I should be able to get most of these answers out.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Heather. And Mr. Ballard, I wanted to invite any comment
or question you had. And I wanted to just make sure-- I just want to do my job as chair and make
sure that I didn't hear a large or strong counter to what we had learned in separate phone calls to
people, in that we do want to get the information about moving ahead with furloughs. We aren't
yet saying we're going to do that. And I agree with Director Tisdale, the best way to approach this
is to have you all coming back to us. But I just want to make sure that that expectation is clear.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Yes, it's very clear. And I endorse what Heather just said, and we'll
proceed in this direction. It's quite clear. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you so much. And you know, it's very difficult to take this up, and I'm
just thankful for all who has participated and the good faith involved.
So Heather, we have the March 2020 monthly financial status report. You've highlighted some of
that. Do you have other parts you wish to add?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I just want to say this does include March's information. We
originally thought we wouldn't get that till June, but most of the filers did file according to the
Department of Revenue. And we got those numbers just a couple days ago, and they are reflected.
Remember, we had about a half a month of excellent sales and use tax and about a half a month of
really bad ones. So that's what is reflected in your monthly financial status.

And interesting that March actual to budget, for both sales tax, ridership, and fares are down
approximately this amount of money. So be glad to take any questions on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Rather than go around, I'll just ask, does anybody-- please announce your
name. Do you have any questions for Heather on the March 2020 monthly financial status report?
OK. We have one more update. That's the LIVE program update. That was moved, per our new
process, into updates at the request of a director. And she provided notice, and I appreciate that.
So what I'll do is I'll ask Director Lewis to raise her questions, and then offer it up to anybody else
who has a question about the LIVE program. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I actually just have one question, Heather.
I noticed that in our update for the LIVE program that you had seen an uptick in the number of
folks who were applying for the program. I'm just curious how you all are planning for folks-- as
we're seeing more folks on unemployment, many people losing their jobs-- how you might be
planning not just for the LIVE program, for other discount programs, as we see a lot of folks trying
to access that I'm in terms of staff.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So one of the things is they have already had the opportunity to
apply for the LIVE discount when they apply for other benefits. And what we were seeing for
awhile, I think, were people applying for the LIVE benefit that already had the other benefits. So
that had been our norm.
Now we are starting to see people apply for LIVE while they're applying for these other benefits.
So it has been a shift in where we're getting our applicants from. Denver has been reaching out to
the other social service agencies, the county agencies across, making sure to remind people that
LIVE is an option when they're applying for the other benefits.
I think one of the things, why the numbers-- they actually decreased this week slightly-- but I think
one of the things is that as long as we're not charging fares, it's not in the forefront of most people's
minds. But we will be, as we start charging fares again, ramping up that outreach program that we
had planned originally that we had spoken a lot about at the beginning of the year.
So again, we've seen a shift from people applying for LIVE that already have the benefits to those
that have never had benefits now starting to apply for LIVE. So it has been a shift, and I think
that's because of the tremendous amount of people that are now applying for benefits.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Do you anticipate that you will need additional staff, not just for the
LIVE program, but for other discount programs, if you see a significant number of folks who might
be interested in the discount who may now qualify who may not previously have qualified for
those programs?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't think we see that right now. What we were already in the process
of doing, but has been delayed because of the issues with no social contact and things like that, has
been that roving person that we are moving forward with. We're continuing to move forward with

that contract amendment for that person so that when there is the ability to move forward, that
person can then go back out in the community and [INAUDIBLE].
The other thing we're talking about-- with Denver and I don't know what this will look like
financially or from a manpower standpoint-- is right now they're doing them over the phone
because they don't have the ability to do them in person. So whether or not they'll be able to
continue that, and what that benefit would look like as far as cost and manpower, we have not
explored, but we have been talking to them about. Does that make sense?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. It does. Thank you so much. That's all I have.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Does anybody else have anything they'd like to ask about the LIVE
program?
OK. We'll move on to other matters. Any directors who wish to talk about, ask for other matters?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I had a concern come to me from operators, actual bus operators, who were
being denied access to front door boarding when they showed their passes. I don't know if that's
come to you all. That just came to me today, and so I just wanted to bring that to your attention as
it was brought to my attention. And this operator was actually pretty upset. So I thought I'd just let
you [AUDIO OUT].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. This is Heather. Could you say that again? What was the
issue?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure.
SHELLEY COOK: Who was that? Sorry. Director Lewis, there's a lot of static. How about
repeating your question, and then we'll turn it over to Michael Ford to respond. OK?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. So I had a few operators reach out to me because they were being denied
the opportunity to board at the front-- and I know we talked about this on my town hall-- being
denied an opportunity to board at the front even if they showed their badges. And so it was just a
concern that came to me this afternoon, and so I just wanted to bring it to your attention.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Director Lewis. It's Michael Ford, COO. I'll definitely check into
it. Do you know when, what time this happened, or bus number or anything like that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It was very general, but I can inquire. It was just a message that came to me
on social media. So I can inquire for you and give you those specific details.

MICHAEL FORD: OK. I definitely will follow up. I appreciate the information.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any other matters to come before the board, the committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is Lynn Guissinger. I have one.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You all saw the governor's letter, and Director Menten was
referring to it a few minutes ago, about the idea of an oversight board. There have been some
updates in the legislature. It looks like SB2151 will not move forward. The legislature will go back
in May 26, and they're pretty consumed with the budget and school financing and the problems
that they'll be facing with those.
But Representative Gray has been given the OK to pull a late bill title regarding an accountability
committee. And so we're working on that. So I'm going to be getting a letter, I think, from the chair
I lead tomorrow or the next day about getting input from all of you as we get back to the governor
and the legislature on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Any other matters?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. Director Cook, this is Peggy Catlin. I just wanted to remind directors
that the deadline for comments for the executive search committee work is noon tomorrow. So if
you could please, please adhere to that deadline so that Greg Moser, our consultant, can get those
comments compiled and finalized by our executive committee meeting on Thursday. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Good reminder. Thank you. Anybody else? I can take a motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams second.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Revera-Malpiede moved and Director Williams seconded. All in
favor say aye.
ALL: Aye.
SHELLEY COOK: I like doing that. Is anybody opposed? OK. Nobody in opposition. We go
ahead adjourn the meeting. Our next meeting is on June 9, 2020. Thank you all very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: All in favor say bye.

