2023-09-12
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Tuesday, September 12, Finance and
Planning Committee meeting will now come to order. The record will reflect that we are convened as of
5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
And I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak. That will provide for a more accurate and comprehensive record.
I want to thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RD
Board of Directors, as contrasted with the full Board meetings, will continue for a while to be held
remotely via Zoom. And they will be audio and video recorded.
These meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the proceedings, will be posted as soon as
is reasonably practicable on the Board's website. So please Visit rtd-denver.com, and you will be able to
access those. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, I would ask you, please, if you would like to
be acknowledged during the course of these proceedings this evening, we respectfully ask you to raise
your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before proceeding to speak.
And directors and staff who are participating in this meeting via telephone can also raise their virtual
hands to indicate that they would like to speak, simply by pressing star 9 on your phone-- that's star 9.
And then, to toggle your mute settings on the phone on and off, you simply have to press star 6.
So I would now like to call the roll for the committee members this evening. And first I call the roll and ask
Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Director Bobby Dishell is not available to join us this evening and has an
excused absence. Next, Chair Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and then next, Director Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
DOUG TISDALE: And the next, Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and Vice Chair Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

DOUG TISDALE: And I am Doug Tisdale, the Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee, and I am
present. So we have all but one of our committee members with us. For the sake of the record, I would
also like to note that we have present this evening Directors Bob Broom, Troy Whitmore, and Marjorie
Sloan. Are there any other directors who are present that I have not acknowledged?
All right. Then we are ready to-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Ruscha, I just saw your hand pop up. I did not see
your name before, but I think that's because you're on the second screen of my computer here. So I thank
you for that, Director Ruscha. You are acknowledged.
We now proceed to the public comment portion of our meeting. And we open the public comment to
anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic that we have listed in the published
meeting agenda, either for this meeting or for the immediately preceding month.
So if you had something that you wanted to say-- and for these purposes, because we did not meet in
August, that refers to July of this year. So if you wish to speak and you haven't already done this, then
please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
And during this time when we have public comment, the committee will not offer any direct comments or
responses relative to whatever you may bring up. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding
whatever your public comment may have raised, please do email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice- that's rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
So now let me ask, staff, if there are any hands that you see that have been raised. I do not notice any on
my screen, but I ask, do we have anyone indicating they would like to speak?
JACK KROLL: [INAUDIBLE] Chair Tisdale, we have not received any indication that there will be any
public comment provided in person or via virtual means this evening. And we likewise did not receive any
public comments submitted ahead of time via email or other correspondence method.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. That very conveniently goes through. The other questions I was
going to raise-- so we have no persons on this Zoom conference indicating a desire to make public
comment. We have no persons on the telephone indicating so. And we have received no email
comments.
So with that in mind-- and I will pause for a moment in case anyone at the last minute has a thought that
they would like to be acknowledged. Having paused, I will now close the public comment section of our
meeting, and we proceed to the next portion of our agenda, which is an opportunity for us to receive
information from external entities who would like to address our committee.
I am informed by staff that we have no such requests or other information from external entities this
month. Mr. Board Manager, can you please confirm that for me?
JACK KROLL: That is correct, Chair Tisdale. There is no external entities wishing to provide an update at
this time.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. Then we proceed to recommended actions, and there is
one recommended action on the agenda this evening that was circulated to you. And that action is for the
2024-2029 Mid-Term Financial Plan, also referred to as the MTFP for Mid-Term Financial Plan.

And the action is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2024-2029 Mid-Term Financial Plan. Do we have
a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Davidson. And a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I heard Director Guzman first. And I just thank you all for not speaking at once. It was
nice. It was a nice pause there. So it made sure that there was no over speaking. That's always very
considerate.
So I have a motion by Davidson and a second by Guzman on the MTFP. And at this point in time, then, it
is my privilege to ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Todd Nikkel, the Senior
Manager of Budget, to present this item. Mr. MacLeod, you may proceed, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: I think was on mute. Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and good evening. As Chair Tisdale
mentioned, this is an action item to approve the Mid-Term Financial Plan, the MTFP. You'll recall in July,
on July 11, Todd Nikkel did present an update as a discussion item to the Board, giving some parameters
surrounding the Mid-Term Financial Plan.
This action item is to ask for committee and Board approval of this plan going forward. So without further
ado, I have a short presentation of approximately 10 slides to go through. So let me share my screen.
OK. So just some background on the MTFP itself. So this is for the six-year period 2024 through 2029. It
is a six-year forecast. It's a strategic financial planning document, meaning that it's really just simply for
planning.
It is not necessarily for any appropriation or spending approval. It's really to help the agency determine
what funding will be used and in what manner over the next several years, the next six years, based on
current available information in terms of revenues and expenditures.
One of the critical items that we want to do with this plan, this financial plan, is to align it with our strategic
plan. So we've made sure that both the revenues and the expenditures address those issues as they're
known at the current time. It also establishes a baseline for the budget, the 2024 budget in particular.
So in October, the Finance Department will come to this committee requesting that-- or presenting a
discussion item for the 2024 budget. Then in November of 2023, we will come back to the committee and
ask for approval of the 2024 budget.
This MTFP is a planning document that kind of sets that stage. It helps us look at the next six-year period
in order to make sure that we are financially secure in terms of our revenues equal our expenditures, and
also to ensure that we have a baseline so that when we do budget, we know what that looks like going
forward. Again, this is not an appropriation. It's simply a planning document.
So a few things before I get into the actual cash flows-- some of the assumptions that were included in
developing these numbers-- fare revenue is lower than the previous forecasts that were presented in the

Mid-Term Financial Plan that was presented at this time last year. The reason for that is implementation
of the fare study and what the projections are for the impacts from those initiatives beginning in 2024.
Sales and use taxes are slightly lower than previous versions. Since the Mid-Term Financial Plan that
was presented last year, we've received two new forecasts, sales and use tax forecasts, from the
University of Colorado Leeds School of Business. The most recent forecast was received in August of this
year.
The March forecast received previously to that showed a significant increase over the prior MTFP, prior
year MTFP. However, the August forecast, the most recent forecast, actually slightly lowered some of
those projections, particularly in the year of 2024.
That's mainly due to the fact that sales and use taxes for the months of April through May, April through
June, those three months, have been relatively flat and actually lower than the previous year's same
months.
So to put that into context, the average growth of the sales and use tax projected over 30 years is 3.3% in
that the most recent forecast, and the current forecast is 4.4% for the next six years-- so some significant
growth continued to be projected even though there's a slightly lower forecast in this MTFP.
An additional factor that was used in putting together this Mid-Term Financial Plan is sustainable service
levels. So sustainable service levels, when we develop the actual operating expenses, we use the
System Optimization Plan through Service Planning.
So it's the current plan that's been developed for the next three cycles, essentially, and then we carry that
forward, assuming certain inflationary factors, certain contractual factors, to cover the full six years. So we
do take into account those sustainable service levels when we put together the expenditures.
Another important point is asset maintenance is fully funded. That is our asset management plan and our
state of good repair initiative to take care of the assets that we do have. We do have the available funding
in this forecast to make sure that that occurs.
And then, finally, fund balances are maintained. In October, we will bring to this committee the fiscal
policy. Within that fiscal policy, we have certain parameters that we try to meet for fiscal sustainability
purposes here at RTD, number one being a three-month operating reserve as well as certain debt
coverage ratios.
So our fund balances are being maintained. So we're maintaining our financial position throughout the
six-year period with these forecasted revenues and expenditures.
And finally, a few more assumptions that go into this Mid-Term Financial Plan. When I mention the
strategic plan implementation, there are certain items that we're really focused on going forward-- in
particular, people power, a welcoming transit environment, and back to basics regarding state of good
repair. Each of those items has been taken into consideration based on current information to help
develop the expenditures that we are putting forth in these cash flows.
Another important item that's been a hot topic lately is our TABOR limits, the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.
There will be a discussion on later this evening, speaking further on the initiatives surrounding that
statute.

Essentially, what we've done is made some limits that I'll show to this committee when we go through the
cash flows to be conservative in our approach about forecasting revenues in light of the revenue growth
limitations that apply through TABOR.
And then, finally, economic volatility-- so what you'll see, too, is we have some swings in some of our
expenses and some of our revenues that I'll point out. But that's a big concern for us in terms of fiscal
sustainability and developing a sound fiscal policy, as well as starting from a sound basis in terms of our
financial position.
Just to highlight a couple items on a trended basis regarding our total revenues and total expenditures on
the next slide, this is the current year MTFP in the blue bars versus last year's MTFP. So what we've put
in this current MTFP, we've actually seen an increase in forecasted revenues.
The main driver of those in the current MTFP is increased sales taxes year over year. So we saw really
good results in 2022, over and above what was forecasted for that year. That came into the current year
forecast going forward. So we're seeing good results there.
We also had some good news a year and a half ago with the bipartisan infrastructure law that increased
some of our ongoing preventive maintenance grants from the federal government by $30 million. So
those two primary revenue funding sources, sales taxes-- sales and use taxes as well as grants, have
shown some significant increases in terms of their projections going forward.
On the expenditure side, again, blue bars are the current MTFP that we're presenting this month,
September 2023, versus last year's MTFP presented in September '22. We also have increased
expenditures.
The largest driver on that is we've refined some of our inflationary factors. So throughout this six-year
period, what we've assumed, in addition to some contractual increases, is also inflationary increases
based on the higher inflation rates that we've been seeing most recently in the last year and a half. So
what these numbers reflect in the blue bars is actually a 5.1% year-over-year increase, due to inflationary
pressures, primarily.
So now we'll have three slides to go through showing cash flows. The first one will be the Base System,
followed by FasTracks, then followed by the full Mid-Term Financial Plan for the entire agency. We've
broken out the Base System and FasTracks to show the impact between the two entities.
So just as a reminder, the Base System is the name that we use for the portion of the operations that
were established in 1969. And it's tied to the 0.6% sales tax. So in total, RTD collects a 1% sales tax.
60% of that belongs to the Base System.
Those Base System revenues can be spent on the FasTracks system, but not vice Versa. The FasTracks
system was implemented with voter approval in 2004. And we keep those two entities, the Base System
and FasTracks, separate for bookkeeping purposes because of the revenue-sharing issue that we must
track separately.
So what I'll show you is how the Base System cash flows look versus the FasTracks system cash flows,
followed by the consolidated cash flows.
So regarding the Base System, which is primarily bus and light rail service, what you'll notice-- what's
noteworthy on this slide itself is that beginning in 2024, the second line item, sales and use taxes, what

we've done in 2025, because the 6/10 is subject to TABOR revenue growth limitations, you'll recall that
once the bonds are paid off on the Base System side in 2024, that final bond matures in 2024.
Subsequent to that, the following year, RTD-- or the Base System, the 6/10 will be subject to TABOR
growth limitations, which are a combination of consumer price index or inflation plus property tax growth.
So what we've assumed in the Base System, as opposed to the 4.4% projected growth throughout the
MTFP period provided by CU Leeds, we've cut that back to 1.4% year over year.
So we're being conservative, we feel, on that end for fiscal sustainability purposes. That 1.4% came from
a study that was done after the last Great Recession in 2008-2009, what was the year-over-year property
tax growth within the district. It was 1.4%. So that's our approach as far as our largest single revenue
source goes for the Base System.
I think the final item I'd like to point out on this slide is just the bottom line, the net cash flow. I think what's
instructive here is can see it's positive. So on the Base System side, it really becomes positive in 2024.
Again, that's when the last of the Base System bonds are paid off.
The Base System still does have some debt in the form of lease purchase agreements or certificates of
participation. Those are not subject to TABOR rules, while bonds are.
So in 2024, what happens is we pay off all the Base System debt, and you can see growth year over year
of net cash flow increases. So a total for the six-year period plus the amended budget is a billion dollars
positive on the bottom line for the Base System.
Moving on to FasTracks, a little bit different picture on the 4/10 sales tax-- and, again, FasTracks cannot
use funding to pay the Base, but Base can use its funding to fund FasTracks Operations. So I think what's
important on this slide is you'll notice-- and I'll just go right to the bottom line here. The net cash flow for
the FasTracks system is negative.
The largest driver of the negative cash flow on the FasTracks system is the way that the debt was
structured. So when FasTracks was being built, most of the infrastructure was financed through issuance
of bonds from FasTracks. Those bonds are supported by sales and use taxes.
The plan was because Base System still had large debt, that the large debt obligation on its system was
to pay off the Base System debt first and delay payments on principal on the FasTracks system until a
later date. So we still got the cash in up front. We were able to complete FasTracks projects.
But the anticipation was to delay some of those principal payments, basically just paying interest on the
FasTracks debt during that interim period, until the Base System had more cash flow capacity, which was
shown on the prior slide, in order to allow the Base to be able to help pay for some of the FasTracks debt.
So even though the negative cash flow is showing here on the FasTracks side, it's primarily driven by the
debt load and paying down the debt service. The final bond maturity on the FasTracks system will occur
in 2050, 2-0-5-0. So over the intervening period, the debt service increases. As you can see there on the
fourth line from the bottom, it increases over a period of time as we pay down more and more principal
until it's ultimately paid off in 2050. The Base System will help subsidize that to a certain extent.
Now, I think it's worth pointing out that the FasTracks system is not just rail, new rail. So when FasTracks
was implemented, it consisted primarily of rail lines, commuter rail and some additional light rail lines and
extensions. However, the FasTracks system also has some bus service.

So for instance, the Bus Rapid Transit, the Flatiron Flyer that goes up to US 36, that is actually a
FasTracks enhancement. So that's funded by both the Base System and FasTracks.
Additionally, FasTracks does pay the Base System for bus feeder service and certain paratransit
services. So some of our rubber tire service increased when the new rail lines for FasTracks were put in
place. So the 2004 voter authorization in the financial plan included a provision for the basis for the
FasTracks system to pay the Base for additional bus service that would be generated to provide feeder
service to these new rail lines.
And because of the expansion of the system, paratransit services expanded as well. Those services are-those rubber tire services are primarily on the Base System side, with the exception of certain bus
enhancements that were done on FasTracks that are paid directly.
So the FasTracks system actually pays the Base System approximately $20 million per year. And to
make a long story a little bit longer, I just wanted to mention that when we speak of the FISA, one of the
primary funding mechanisms of the FasTracks internal savings account fund has been the difference
between the original plan of what the FasTracks was to pay the base system for rubber tire service and
what the current actual funding is that happens.
So essentially, the 2004 plan had the FasTracks system over its entire existence assuming that a 1%
increase in bus feeder service would-- on revenue service would increase by 1% every year, and
FasTracks was to pay the base system for that. About 2015, the Board-- 2013, excuse me-- the Board at
the time said, our rubber tire services are growing at 1% revenue hours per year.
So let's reduce that amount to the consumer price index year over year to reflect the increasing costs for
providing the service. So the difference between the original calculation and that CPI, or inflation factor,
which is lower, actually goes into the FISA. So I just wanted to point that out just to set some bearings in
terms of how the funding between these two entities works.
So I'll go ahead and move on to the total. So this is both FasTracks and Base put together. It's the entirety
of RTD.
So you can see the entire picture on a cash flow basis, where we have the revenues at the top. Those are
our main revenues. And you can see what's happening with fare revenues.
While we do have some growth contemplated in there. As the system grows, there's certain assumptions
in terms of small ridership growth as well as some assumptions about the impact of the fare study and
what will happen in the future. But nonetheless, our fares are relatively small in context to sales and use
taxes, as well as grant revenue and other income.
So sales and use taxes is our primary component. In 2023, they're projected in that first column to be
about 75% of the total revenues, followed by grant revenue, and then some other miscellaneous income,
primarily investment income and some miscellaneous leases and advertising revenue.
So those are our primary sources when you look at the agency as a whole. And you can see we're
growing from about expected $1.2 billion-- and by the way, these are in thousands, so we leave the last
three digits off-- 2023 is $1.2 billion, growing to $1.4 billion at the end of the MTFP period in 2029.
Beyond that, we have operating expenses, debt service, and capital expenditures/state of good repair
costs. So our operating expenditures-- less depreciation. So we're basically just showing cash going out

the door for operations, or approximately $900 million in 2023 projected, growing to $1.1 billion over that
six-year period.
These costs, again, are based on the System Optimization Plan, as well as certain expense projects. So
that's why the fluctuation occurs between years that you'll see, in addition to contractual increases such
as the collective bargaining agreement, assumed wage increases, wages and-- well, compensation,
which is wages and benefits, are our largest single expenditure. So we've contemplated growth in those
costs of approximately all of our operating costs of approximately 5.1% year over year.
Debt service-- when we looked at the previous slide, you could see it kind of grew on the FasTracks side
and decreased on the Base System side. But when you add them together, it's relatively flat over the
period. But that's a pretty hefty number. Approximately a quarter a billion dollars every year goes out to
service RTD's debt.
And our capital expenditures, state of good repair-- I think it's important to note here that it fluctuates year
to year, and that's based on our current thinking in terms of maintaining our assets and replacing them
and repairing them based on the information that we have. So our net cash flow down there on the
bottom line, it's relatively close to a break-even almost every year.
We have some swings up and down. By the end of the 2023 through 2029 period, you can see it's
virtually balanced-- $9.1 billion coming in, just under $9.1 billion going out, so a net projected cash flow
increase of $17 million.
So what I would point out to you-- so the second to the bottom line, contributions to or use of reserves-the reason that number is going up and down is what we-- because of our fiscal policy, what we need to
do with any additional cash flow is continue to grow our three-month operating reserve.
And, again, this is a policy set by the Board where we want to have reserves set aside for operating
expenditures in the event we see a downturn in sales and use tax or some other type of black swan event
that we need to deal with. We'll have those reserves in place to maintain operations for a period of time to
ensure that we don't have to make cuts immediately, at least on the operating side.
So what we're doing is we're building up those operating reserves as our operating expenses increase to
maintain that three months of reserves over time. So we're maintaining those reserves. And then we're
also putting cash away into-- we also have a capital replacement fund. It's a reserve as well.
In good years where we have extra cash, we put money into that reserve. Then when we spend it down
for state of good repair items-- for example, periodically, we'll order a lot of buses altogether. That's a
large expenditure. We'll take that reserve down to finance those-- or to pay for those payments instead of
financing by borrowing to make those purchases.
So you can see the growth in reserves there on the bottom line. And I think you'll notice that in 2029, it
actually drops. But we actually still meet all of our fiscal policies because in the intervening years, we're
actually above those fiscal policy requirements.
So here's just an idea of what, pictorially, what those fund balances look like over time. And it's broken
into the three main sections. Unrestricted Operating Reserve is the three-month reserve shown in yellow.
Capital Replacement Fund that we use for state of good repair is shown in the gray portion of the bar.
And then our Unrestricted Fund Balance, or deficit, is shown in the blue bar.

That Unrestricted Fund Balance is essentially what's left over once we've met all of our fiscal policies. So
what you can see-- I think that the takeaway on this slide really is to show that our unrestricted balance,
we're actually drawing that down to pay mainly for capital repairs and state of good repair on our asset
management plan over time.
That's excess funding. But by the time we get to the end of the 2029 period, it's just important to note this,
that while we have a lot of cash now, the plan is that we will continue to grow our reserves, but we'll use
up that excess cash for our state of good repair needs.
So there's not a lot-- there's been some talk about, well, RTD has a lot of money. That's true, but it all has
been designated for certain purposes over time.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I would like to stop here, and Todd and I can field any questions that the
committee may have.
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you very much for your presentation, Mr. MacLeod. And is there anything that
Todd would like to say first before I open up for questions?
Todd, I don't see you, and I don't hear you. There we are. OK, is there anything you would like to add just
before I open up for questions?
TODD NIKKEL: No. I think Doug covered it real well and hit the main points.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. Thank you. Appreciate that. So at this time, Directors, in the first instance, I will
ask the committee members of the Finance and Planning Committee if they have any questions that they
would like to address to Mr. MacLeod or to Mr. Nikkel relative to this item.
After that, I will go to other Board members who are present on this meeting and ask them if they would
like to speak. But in the first instance, are there committee members who would like to be recognized for
purposes of questions or comments on the Mid-Term Financial Plan?
I see no hands raised or any-- oh, wait, now I do. All right. It took me a second for my screen to catch up.
Director Catlin, you are recognized first. Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, it's clear that the Base System, because of no longer
having debt service after 2024, will be, I guess, in good financial straits. But the FasTracks system will
not.
And so when you look at the overall picture of the MTFP total, it looks like there will be subsidy from the
Base System to the FasTracks plan. My concern is that we are-- what would be the consequences to
operations of the Base System as a result of that using those funds to shore up the FasTracks plan?
And maybe that's a question for Ms. Johnson as opposed to our financial people. But I just want to make
sure that we are not cannibalizing the Base System for FasTracks because I think we really are-- in my
opinion, I think we need to make sure that we have a solid foundation for the Base System and bus
service. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And let me recognize, then, General Manager CEO
Johnson, if she would like to weigh in first on that, and then any followup to Mr. MacLeod. But, General
Manager, the floor is yours.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Catlin, for the question. I
believe, in reference to what we are doing collectively, we're being intentional as we use this forecasting
document, recognizing that our core business function is delivery of transit service.
Mr. MacLeod referenced in his introductory remarks that we have a laser focus on three key initiatives
that have spawned from our four strategic priorities, being community value, customer excellence,
employee ownership, and financial success.
Those three initiatives are back to basics, recognizing our state of good repair, as we need to invest in
our system holistically to sustain the operability of our transit network, and also the aspect of people
power relative to where we are with our Base System, and then, of course, the welcoming transit
environment. And that's just not merely for our customers, but for our employees.
And what that means holistically is investing in the facilities, recognizing that they're very outdated and
antiquated relative to new technologies that are emerging. We want to ensure that is where the focal point
is.
So traditionally, we have bifurcated the FasTracks system from the Base System. But to the average
person utilizing their system, they're one and the same. And as we bring those full circle, it's using our
comprehensive operational analysis that has been coined here as the System Optimization Plan to
determine levels of efficiency.
And we are currently working as a leadership team, as well as members of our management team, and,
of course, our budget office, having a laser-like focus on, what are we trying to achieve? And our
budgeting process is going to be more focused on our revenue service hours because that's our core
business.
And so with that, I provide that context to say relative to the discussions in which we had, those
parameters that I've outlined, those initiatives, are intended, as relates to what our financial health is,
they're aligned with what we can deliver.
So that's a very contextualized explanation to say that we are going to ensure that we can deliver on our
Base System that is the foundation of our transit network and the backbone of it. And I'll yield the floor to
Mr. McLeod to expound on the financial piece of that and how we've gone full circle.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much for that. That's very reassuring. And forgive me. Doug did
mention that we're basing it on our strategic priorities. And so your explanation helps a lot, and I
appreciate that.
I just have been concerned about not delivering the service in the Base System that our customers
expect. But your explanation was very satisfactory. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And so I take it, Director Catlin, you don't need to hear further from Mr.
MacLeod or Mr. Nikkel. All right. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: I do not.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. I read your lips. It's OK. I appreciate that.
Are there any other committee members? Director Guzman, I saw you had your hand up previously. If
you would like, this is your opportunity for comments or questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for recognizing me. I had a similar question to Director Catlin. Maybe just
a bit of clarification on the debt service for the FasTracks being paid off-- I don't understand how that
number gets so large so quick.
But also, the history lesson was important. So thank you for that. If I understood it correctly, we've only
basically paid interest on FasTracks, and now we've got to pay down the principal balance for the debt
service for that. Is that the correct understanding and why those numbers are so large?
DOUG TISDALE: And let me turn to Mr. MacLeod on that one. But in summary, I would say, yes, debt
service is all it's been as debt service, not debt retirement. But let me turn to Mr. MacLeod for expansion
on that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Thank you for the question, Director Guzman. Yes, so
those two cash flows may be a little bit misleading because think Debra really put-- General Manager
Johnson really put it into context when she was talking about the entire system.
So the way the finances were actually structured, this was deliberate and intentional, that the Base
System would focus on paying off its debt, and the FasTracks system would only pay interest on that debt
until a later period in time when the Base System had paid off its debt, had free cash flow to assist the
Base System in paying off its debt over the remaining 30 years or so, the reason being primarily is
because the Base System can fund FasTracks, but not vice versa.
So it was done intentionally because the FasTracks system had been paying down additional debt all that
time, and the Base System didn't have the extra cash flow. It wouldn't have allowed for the FasTracks
system to have enough cash flow to sustain its operations during that period of time while the Base
System was paying off its debt.
So I don't know if I'm explaining that well. But essentially, it was structured because of the rule that the
Base System can fund FasTracks but not vice versa. And it was a conservative approach so that we
didn't spend down FasTracks too fast that it ran out of money to support itself before the Base System
had the ability to help fund that.
So it was intentional. It was part of the plan to build as much as we can as fast as we can. I know that's
an old phrase, but in order to get those FasTracks additional systems, additional elements, completed,
that large debt had to be issued at that time, knowing the Base System was going to have to help fund it
at a later point in time. So hopefully, that helps.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. And, yes, I will point out again, just for the record, for
some who may not know this, but our ability to open up, what was it, five new lines over the course of a
three-year period was because of some of that financial management that RTD did, much of it under
Heather Kopp when she was our Chief Financial Officer.

So we were able to do a lot and provide a greatly expanded network by virtue of that. Director Harwick,
committee member, you are recognized, sir.
You appear to be speaking, but you also still appear, for some reason, to be on mute. Can you confirm
that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, we can't hear you, and you're not muted.
IAN HARWICK: There we go. Is that it? Yeah, sorry. Switching between day job and night job technology
was not my friend today.
So, again, So I'm just going to preface this I'm not a finance guy. So I just-- looking at this, and Mr.
MacLeod, when I say this, I recognize you stop at 2029.
But as I'm looking at this, and I'm looking at our net cash flow, it looks great next year, and then it goes
down and then down and then down. And then it just continually gets worse. And so even if it just stayed
at us losing $61 million a year, I feel like, within 10 years-- and granted, none of us will be here in theory
in 2039, at least not on RTD-- it looks like our reserves will be gone.
Am I reading that right? And I recognize I'm asking something about 16 years in the future, but I just want
to make sure I'm understanding correctly.
DOUG TISDALE: It's a legitimate question. Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, you're right. If we continued on that trend-- because,
essentially, our expenditures are growing faster than our revenue. so at some point, yeah, those losses
become bigger, and you have to dig into reserves to pay for those things.
But I think what's kind of buried in those numbers and what we've assumed through the Mid-Term
Financial Plan is that 5.1% growth in expenditures year over year while our revenues are only growing
approximately 3%. I think what will depend on the long-term sustainability is either if inflation continues at
this level, which we've embedded into the system-- that's not the historical inflation rate. It's closer to 2%
to 3%, which is closer to our revenue growth rate.
So we've conservatively estimated what the expenditures will grow at, and then we've conservatively
brought down what we think our revenues will be. So one of those two would have to adjust over time in
order to maintain fiscal sustainability over long term.
So it's a good observation. We have included those conservative numbers at this point. Only time will tell
what happens. But the expectation would be that inflation, hopefully, will come down at a point in time.
IAN HARWICK: And so then I'm going to ask another question. And I'm going to just assume you don't
have-- I'm going to assume the answer is either we don't know or the answer is no. And as we're tied to
this debt service for the next 27 years, is there a way-- is there any-- I mean, is there anything we can do?
Or are we just stuck between a rock and a hard place on that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, please.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. No. So, no, we're not-- we are stuck from the standpoint that RTD will
have to pay that amount back. One of the things that we did when we issued all of our debt is that we
were very careful to make sure we left ourselves some room for flexibility in terms of, we have budget
certainty. So all of our debt is fixed-rate. So we don't have any floating interest rates or swaps or any of
those types of things that would change what our actual forecasted debt service payment is.
So the good news on that front is it's fixed through that period. And there's different levels of funding
because each series of bonds has different maturities. It's not level like a home mortgage would be over
time. So there is that fluctuation in it.
The other thing we did-- and you've seen this as we've come for requests to refinance our debt-- is we put
in call provisions, 10-year call provisions, on virtually all of our issuances, which allows us to refinance
that debt at a certain point in time. So that lever gives us the ability, at least on the debt side, some
flexibility in terms of restructuring that debt or moving things around to the extent we can if it came down
to that point of having to do that.
Obviously, it's frowned upon to extend your debt or do other things. And I think most of our bond
covenants do not allow extension of debt. But restructuring it by year possibly could happen.
So we've left ourselves some flexibility to move some of those obligations around if necessary. I'd say that
would be one of the last resort type of things that we would want to do. But you're right. We do have to
pay the entirety of that amount back.
IAN HARWICK: So this is my last question. Is there an avenue to-- and, granted, I know that this would
hurt in the future. But is there the avenue to pay this down sooner to get out from underneath it? Or are
we just looking like, hey, it's 27 years, and we're just going to ride this till the end?
DOUG MACLEOD: We do have certain opportunities to do that. So one example-- one recent example,
actually-- is we're going through a refinancing right now where we have not met the 10-year call date on
certain of our bonds. So what we've asked investors or holders of those bonds to tender them-- hey, if
you're interested in selling those back to us, we'd like to buy them back because we can generate interest
savings for that.
I'm happy to report that we actually closed on the pricing on that today. When we had presented it to the
Board earlier-- and I just found this news out-- it was actually better. We actually got more participation in
that tender that I need to share that information with our General Manager first.
But we did have really good results. But that's an example of where our bond holders, we can go out
proactively and ask them to please sell those back to us. So, yes, there is that possibility.
Or through refinancing, too-- one of the refinancings we did a year and a half ago, not only did we
refinance for lower interest rates, but we used-- I believe it was approximately $90 million of cash to
actually pay down that debt load that we had, which will save us a lot of interest-- RTD a lot of interest
rate over time. So it's a good point that we do have that ability to have some flexibility on that front, too.
IAN HARWICK: Great. Thank you. I'm done with my questions. Thank you. I really appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. We appreciate your participation on that, and you raised some
important points, remembering that, among other things, this committee did, just over the summer,

authorize for the Board to consider and approve those refinancings that did result in those significant
savings.
Are there other committee members who have questions at this time for Mr. MacLeod or Mr. Nikkel or for
General Manager CEO Johnson?
I see no other committee members with their hands raised. Are there Board members who have
questions? And Speedy Gonzalez Director Whitmore was first. So, Director Whitmore, you are
recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Chair. And it is not a question. It's kind of an observation or a
statement. So I'd be happy to go into the line because I see some probably questions behind me from,
two very stellar Board members.
DOUG TISDALE: You're here now, Director. Go on.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, OK. Well, it just struck me when our General Manager was talking about our
strategic goals and how they're not divided between FasTracks and Base System. FasTracks was passed
almost 20 years ago. And we know that we will have a separation of the two systems financially for the
foreseeable future, and also in the court of public opinion about projects that have not been completed.
But beyond that, I think we need to merge the thought of the two to one because more and more of our
riders have no idea about FasTracks politics in 2004 or the formation of this very organization in 1969. It's
just about moving people.
And when you look at the state of good repairs with FasTracks programs that are beginning to age, some
of the older ones are pushing, what, 15 years. I just think it's important that we strategically remember
that we're all in this together with one major system and to be thinking that way as we move forward
strategically. Thank you for the time, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. We appreciate your input. And now, Director Ruscha, you are
recognized, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So this question is for Mr. MacLeod. Previously, you had said
that fares projections are lower than March due to-- and I didn't catch the rest. I wasn't sure if you said the
fare study analysis or the fares change, as we did decrease fares, which, I assume, ostensibly results in
some decrease in revenue.
So if you wouldn't mind just clarifying or maybe repeating your statement, I wasn't able to hear you
clearly. But my question, actually, is related to fares revenue and our current trends in ridership and those
projections.
At what point does staff believe that we will attain prepandemic ridership levels? And to that end, I mean,
recognizing that we have also decreased fares for the better, does staff have a projection as to when we
will also attain prepandemic revenues from fares as well?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, you are recognized to undertake an answer to those questions.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to answer the first part of the question and then defer to
General Manager Johnson for the second part of the question if OK.

So just to repeat what I was referring to, Director Ruscha-- and thank you for the question on the fare
revenue decrease. So the decrease that's reflected in the Mid-Term Financial Plan versus last year really
takes into account the fare study and equity analysis impacts of the decisions and the approval that the
Board gave.
Prior to that approval, we didn't really have concrete projections about what that would look like because
there were a lot of moving pieces, as well as certain calculations that were done by our consultant that
hadn't been completed. So now that we have that full picture, those numbers decreased initially in 2024.
That drop is really as a result of the implementation of the recommendations from the fare study and
equity analysis that the Board approved.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for your response, and thank you,
Director Ruscha, for your question. As it relates to when might the agency get back to prepandemic
levels, it's highly unlikely that the agency will not.
Recognizing that there has been forecasting, and within the transit industry, specifically in North America,
there's been discussions that have ensued relative to at least 15% of prepandemic ridership being lost
permanently. There's a myriad of different factors as it relates to why that may be a reality.
It's due to the fact of different shifts that have occurred relative to working environments. There are not
individuals utilizing transit services for commuting purposes that were traditionally how transit service
delivery was provided looking at peak hours in the mornings and in the evenings. People are using transit
in a myriad of different ways to engage, to go to activity centers, to appointments, and generally off-peak
times, if one compare that to prepandemic levels, say, back in January of 2020.
As it relates to the fare study and equity analysis and various initiatives that this agency has undertaken,
we are utilizing different mechanisms and initiatives to entice people to want to utilize transit services
outside of the traditional norm, i.e. when we look at the introduction of zero fare for youth, that investment
in trying to ensure that we can garner a transit customer for life in the sense of starting young and raising
one up to understand the socioeconomic benefits as well as environmental impacts-- impacts for the
better, that is, as we move forward.
Additionally, some critical elements have to be based upon our labor-intensive work environment. That's
why we are laser-focused right now on those three initiatives. I called out state of good repair. We will not
be able to move people if we don't invest in our assets.
Director Whitmore made reference to our FasTracks system and how some elements of it have been in
operation for a period of time. We need to invest in that state of good repair. And so that's where our
focus is as well.
But we also have to focus on people power and the shift in what traditionally enticed people to come to
the transit agency. We're looking at different avenues in which to entice people to want to work. Some of
those critical issues have to do with the traditional aspect of the shift work and how one goes about
selecting their different work shifts as a whole-- so embarking upon a myriad of different initiatives to
figure out what might land us additional ridership.

But the ultimate message I would like to impart is that we need to focus on the value of our transit service
model as opposed to the volume, because if we focus on the value through various initiatives, that will
reap the volume relative to the ridership because we want to produce a good product that people will
promote.
And in doing so, we have to ensure that we can provide timely and efficient services. But we have to have
the infrastructure and mechanisms in place. So that is my response, and I'll yield the floor, Mr. Chair.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. And I want to second what you said relative to
the transit industry generally, acknowledging that there is this approximately 15% sort of perpetual
reduction that is anticipated, as has been verified by the American Public Transportation Association and
a number of studies that have been done there. So it's a different world.
Director Ruscha, did you have anything further to follow up on relative to your questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I did want to say thank you so much for those responses. I
appreciate the candor, detail, and the thought that went into that. It explained quite a bit.
I did have another question, if the Chair would permit. And I can keep it brief, or I can go ahead and let
others get theirs in.
DOUG TISDALE: Please proceed, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, sir. So this question-- do we anticipate any additional capital
carryforward expenditures for the next fiscal year, either positive or negative? I assume, if so, it would be
positive. And I was wondering if staff could address that.
I didn't see it in the presentation. And if this is something that is better served for maybe the October
meeting, where we'll have a more comprehensive view of our draft budget, that is totally fine. It was just in
the back of my mind as listening.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me recognize, General Manager, if there is a quick response to that question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the
question. I'm smiling at CFO MacLeod because this has been an undertaking that is very important to all
of us, and we are working on it diligently.
I will yield the floor to Mr. McLeod to provide some context. But we're not in a place to discuss that now.
But it's something that has been a top priority for this organization, for members of the team. So, Mr.
MacLeod, do you want to summarize really quickly the status?
DOUG TISDALE: CFO MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, just briefly, you're correct. That number will appear in the budget
that's brought forth in the budget update that's brought forth to this committee in October, as well as the
final budget approval request in November. Essentially, as General Manager Johnson mentioned, we've
been working to work that down, the capital carryforward being any capital expenditures are not spent in
a single year get carried forward in the budget to the next year.

The fiscal policy approved by the Board only allows that to happen for three years without any activity,
and then that falls back-- any unused funds fall back into the general fund. If that three years hasn't
lapsed but the project is closed, we'll close it out. Any leftover funding also falls into the general fund, just
to give some context.
But, yes, we've been working on that quite a bit with keeping General Manager Johnson informed on our
progress. We have a little bit more work to do and plan to bring that to this committee in coming months.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. McLeod. We appreciate that. And, Director Ruscha, I'm
taking it that concludes your questions at this time. And so I'm going to go on and recognize Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. In previous years, when we talked about the budget, there was never
any mention of property taxes or assessed valuations, reassessments, and that type of thing. That's
creeped into the discussion tonight.
And I guess I'm kind of curious about, with the reassessments touching almost 40% this year for a lot of
properties, does that have any impact on our budgeting? And what does that bode for years in the future?
DOUG TISDALE: Let me recognize Mr. McLeod on that, a topic near and dear to many of us because
RTD does have the power to levy a property tax, which would require, of course, a vote of the electorate.
But let me turn to Mr. MacLeod for his response.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Two items-- so earlier, when I mentioned property taxes, it was
in the context of how those increases play into the TABOR growth limitations. Essentially, that's part of
our limits year over year. That's part of the measurement and how much RTD can retain year over year
on the 6/10 for the TABOR revenue growth limitations.
Within the district, those valuations-- we still have some more work to do internally. We do have a
discussion item about the Revenue Working Group that's coming up. One of the items that we'll discuss is
approaching those TABOR issues, mainly from the aspect of, what can RTD do? How does this impact
us? How do those calculations fit into our TABOR revenue growth limitations?
The second issue being the revenue portion of that-- and so there's some legal issues that we need to
look into in terms of revenue from property taxes as well. So sorry not to give a full-fledged answer, but
we're still in the discovery stage, essentially.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. But I take it that even though there's going to be changes in what's finally
approved in each of the counties as far as assessed values for individual properties, that won't have any
impact on the budgets that we're looking at this year.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Correct, no impact on the budgets that we're looking at this
year.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's all I had.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. Are there any other Directors who have questions as to this
agenda item at this time? Other than a lingering hand from Director Broom, I don't see any hands up and,
therefore, will conclude that the discussion has now been exhausted.
And so I ask at this time, based upon the motion made by Vice Chair Davidson and seconded by Director
Guzman, are there any no votes on this item?
I see no one indicating a no vote. And therefore, this item passes unanimously out of the committee with
a recommendation to the full Board at its meeting at the end of this month to approve the Mid-Term
Financial Plan.
That was our only action item. We now turn to two discussion items that we have on the agenda this
evening. The first is on the topic of revenue diversification. And you will recall our discussion at the Board
retreat relative to this item.
And we're going to ask our Committee Vice Chair Davidson and our Chief Financial Officer Mr. McLeod to
present this item relative to a working group that the General Manager CEO has proposed.
And we would like to ask for a presentation first. And I'll turn to the Vice Chair in the first instance and Mr.
MacLeod as necessary, and then we'll have comments and discussion. Mr. Vice Chair, the floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it very brief because I'll be handing this right off. I
think I'll just start by thanking my colleagues here on the committee and the Board for making this a
priority. I think we had a good discussion at our retreat this year and discussed this as being a top priority,
for reasons that we can see already in the Mid-Term Financial Plan and would be even more apparent in
the long-term view.
And then, likewise, I'd like to very much thank our CEO and General Manager Johnson, as well as our
Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, for responding to this, for hearing the urgency in this, and for
putting their heads together to convene a working group that staff can then leverage to bring subject
matter experts together to come back to this committee and this Board and make material
recommendations for consideration-- so just a long-winded way of saying thank you to both Board and
staff for helping to prioritize this.
With that, I'll hand this off to Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, who had written this position paper
and prepared this group of subject matter experts. Mr. MacLeod, please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. McLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Vice Chair Davidson. I do not have a formal
presentation. I will just summarize the Board documents that are included in the package.
So as the Chair mentioned, the Board retreat that occurred on March 25th of 2023 resulted in a policy
recommendation to seek to shore up RTD's financial position. In my previous presentation, I mentioned
that RTD is in a good financial position. However, we have some financial risk in terms of our revenue
portfolio, if you will.
The portfolio essentially is made up of 75% of our revenues, RTD's revenues coming from sales and use
taxes. The concern there is that it subjects this agency to economic volatility. We're dependent on those
sales and use taxes from people spending money within the district.

So if that changes for the worse, it obviously impacts us to a large extent because it's 75-- three-quarters
of our revenue. We do have some additional sources of revenue. But the intent that came out of that
Board meeting-- or that Board retreat on March 25 was really to look to address that issue for long-term
fiscal sustainability. What can we do about our revenue diversification?
Subsequent to that Board retreat, there was an update by myself and Director Davidson on May 5. We
proposed a discussion item for this group to consider, which was essentially an unrefined version of what
we're presenting tonight. It really was addressing some of the issues that we had identified that we
believe should be tackled in terms of addressing this policy direction that the Board is seeking to diversify
our revenue.
Subsequent to that, General Manager Johnson provided a memo on August 22 to the Board just
informing the Board that we will be discussing this Board item, in particular this working paper draft, at this
meeting.
So just to summarize what this is all about, essentially, we will be putting together, under General
Manager Johnson's direction, a working group primarily of staff. And the composition of that working
group is laid out in the revenue diversification working group position paper included in the package.
It consists of General Manager Johnson, General Counsel Melanie Snyder, myself, Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer, Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, and Director
Davidson as the liaison to the Board.
The intent of this working group is really to look at and get a very good understanding of the statutes,
enabling legislation, and parameters that RTD can work within in terms of addressing its revenue. In
addition to that, this working group would include inquiries to third parties, such as bond counsel, TABOR
experts, and addressing any bond covenants, too.
So essentially, what I'm saying-- this working group really needs to do a lot of homework to really
understand the landscape within which we're working, not only to address revenue diversification, but
some of the limitations that we have, such as TABOR. So in order to do that, we need these subject
matter experts that can meet.
And we're going to meet on a monthly basis or more frequently if necessary, essentially meet, assign
duties to go look and do research and gather information about what we can do to work within these
parameters that we have to as an agency, and then develop recommendations to bring to the Board at a
point in time to address some of these financial challenges we have on the revenue side.
Along the way, I should point out that there will be regular updates to this committee and the Board
regarding our activities and any findings that we have along the way. So that will be important to keep the
Board informed.
And then I believe everything is pretty well laid out in that revenue position paper. And essentially, we're
going to be investigating, evaluating, and reviewing all of our options to bring to the Board because the
Board is a policymaking body of this organization.
By having that information, we can effectively answer questions and address issues that are brought forth
by the Board. So that concludes my comments, Mr. Chair, and I'd be happy to answer any questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And let me ask, General Manager CEO, if there's
anything that you would like to add at this point relative to this revenue diversification working group that
we are discussing this evening.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair, for the opportunity to offer up additional comments.
And thank you, CFO MacLeod. I believe you laid that out very well.
I just want to reiterate that this is a working group. And quite naturally, with the Vice Chair of this
committee, who basically broached this subject with us some time ago, and additionally with your
dialogue at the Board retreat, in addition to the comments and discussion that were had at the May
Finance and Planning Committee, I want to just stress that this is just staff supporting the Board,
recognizing that this is a policy decision of the Board.
And in our role here, to do our due diligence, do our main jobs, and quite naturally, with our responsibility
as fiscal stewards, we want to ensure that we're providing you with ample information. So we will be
seeking direction on an ongoing basis. And quite naturally, with the Vice Chair of this committee liaising
with us, we could have more frequent updates.
This could be a standing agenda item. We look to you for that direction. So I just wanted to stress that's
the intent of this working group. And hence, that's why we have the working paper for you all's
consideration. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, General Manager. I think that's very well stated. And I think it should give
the committee and, ultimately, the full Board, a comfort level with how this is proceeding so that we have
distilled information approaching us instead of just having a broad, unfettered kind of rambling approach.
So it's a very focused one the working group will help put in place for all of us. So now we turn to
comments, and we have committee members first. And I will recognize our Board Chair, Lynn Guissinger.
Madam Chair, the floor is yours.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Kind of to reiterate some of what is being said, I've had
conversations with Ms. Johnson, Mr. MacLeod, and Director Davidson. I apologize I didn't get to you
today, Director Tisdale, but-- Chair Tisdale.
But I really appreciate the fact that staff is taking on so much of this fact-finding. This was a priority
coming out of our Board retreat. Director Davidson has done a great job of pushing it forward, and Mr.
MacLeod and Ms. Johnson, I appreciate you heard us and are responding. And I think it's important to
say that there is some urgency here and a need for serious Board involvement.
And the urgency is that there is a lot of discussion now about, well, you heard the MTFP, and we're about
to see the budget, but also, in the bigger world, a lot of discussion, both from citizen groups about wanting
to help RTD with funding, from legislators from the governor's office about what we can do to fund transit
and move forward on some of the other priorities with TOD and those sorts of things.
And the TLRC that Ms. Johnson and I spoke to a few weeks ago, one of their priority bills is to-- they're
drafting a bill that would be funding free fares for youth, or zero fares for youth, for, I believe, the whole
state. And there's also talk of funding for our zero fares. And, of course, there's a bigger need.
So this is, I think, going to be hugely helpful in terms of the background, if you look at a couple of their
first bullet points in their memo-- review financial opportunities permitted under RTD's enabling legislation,

and research revenue compositions of other transit agencies. So we got to have this kind of background.
And we need to have the kind of expertise that staff can help bring.
At the same time, all hands on deck-- and I think I would like to see-- and this is why, I'm sorry, I didn't get
to talk to you earlier, Chair Tisdale. But I would like to see us make this a standing discussion item of this
committee, where we can look at what's been discussed in the working group meetings and talk about-help direct what needs to be discussed, help to respond, and move it forward.
There's been some discussion that the CAC might also help with looking at the finance issues. I think
there are a lot of different brains that could come to these issues. And so it's not just an update as we
might get on many other issues. And I appreciate that Director Davidson is willing to drive that piece and
bring it forward to us.
But I think, especially, again, we have the debriefing question looming. We have been working on some
issues around that. I think one of our next steps is to try to get a strategic advisor on that and see where
we are-- so lots to discuss, lots for the working group to discuss, lots for us to discuss.
And thanks for putting it together. Thanks for Director Davidson for keeping it moving forward and being
the liaison. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I think, if only because we will be looking to this group to
give us periodic updates, and if they meet at least monthly, I would anticipate that they would be in a
position to give us a monthly report, even if it's to say no report-- and I think that we can readily make that
a part of our standing agenda for the Finance and Planning Committee because there are few more
important topics that we need to address, as was emphasized by some of the comments by the Directors
during the discussion on the Mid-Term Financial Plan.
So I appreciate your comments and observations on that, Madam Chair. Anything further from you?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Now let's turn to Director Catlin. Your thoughts, please?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. And I really do appreciate, as Chair Guissinger said, the sense
of urgency and importance on behalf of staff and Director Davidson. And I think, referencing back to
General Manager CEO Johnson's comments earlier about the changing transit climate and the way
commuting patterns have changed and transit has changed, and we're responding to a very different
customer environment than we had previously prior to COVID, I think that that kind of factors into this
whole analysis as well.
And Chair Guissinger also mentioned the fact that there's a lot of talk with legislation in the governor's
office about helping RTD. But I want to make sure that they are helped based on informed-- based on
information and facts.
And that's why I very much appreciate the urgency and the regularity with which you're going to report on
this. So thank you very much for taking this on. I think it's a real thorough explanation.
But I would like to maybe add a couple of nuances with respect to the changing transit environment, as
well as some of the-- I wouldn't call them risks, but some of the help that we may be seeing in the next

legislative session and how we can be prepared to respond so that we can accept quality help. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your thoughts on that, Director Catlin. And, yes,
the timeliness of this is significant because we are looking at some of our legislators taking their hand at
doing some things to, as you said, helping RTD with legislations being drafted. So we'll have to explore
that very closely. Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it a great deal here that we're moving this forward.
And thank you, Chair Guissinger, for adding the emphasis to the urgency here.
Just as we've been saying, there are a variety of citizen groups and legislators that have taken an interest
in the future of transit in Colorado, which is wonderful. I think that presents a great opportunity for our
minds at RTD who are the most informed on how RTD is working and operating today to bring forward
some ideas for those who might be listening or seeking ideas.
I did also want to react to, Chair Guissinger, your point about really having all hands on deck and having
strong involvement and participation from a Board standpoint.
So certainly, if it does please-- and at the direction of the Chair of this committee, Chair Tisdale, and the
Chair of the Board, Chair Guissinger, I am very happy to commit to the liaison role and report every
month to this Finance and Planning Committee at the beginning of that discussion item in much the same
way we do our report outs each Board meeting on the committee reports.
So I'm very happy to maintain notes and maintain the role of liaison, communicate back what's being
discussed, what's not being discussed. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for speaking about this and
highlighting also what's not being discussed as an item that should come up. So I'm happy to provide
those reports, which then can open up when we have a discussion item to facilitate further ideas and
discussion.
Furthermore, to my colleagues, if you have ideas, if you have things that you're thinking about or you
want to check in, please feel free to reach out to me. As a liaison, part of my role will be there to help
bridge the gap between not just the committee, but the whole Board and this working group.
So certainly you have my commitment to maintain urgency. You have my commitment to communicate.
And you have my commitment to come and provide those reports at all of our future Finance and
Planning Committees. So thank you very much. I appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. And as an ancient leader once said regarding
your commitment, "So let it be written, so let it be done." We appreciate that.
Are there other committee members who have any comments at this time before I open up for general
discussion by Board members present here this evening? And, Director Guzman, you are recognized
now, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I appreciate that this working group is being formed and the
commitments that are being made. I am a little confused about-- I am and I'm not. I guess I'm trying to
understand it from both sides.

We suspended the TABOR ad hoc committee, which was doing some of this work. And we're looking at
this maybe in a more holistic way with the expertise and the guidance of the specialists in the agency.
There was one particular bit that concerned me, which is that these conversations are not necessarily
going to be public. I don't know that they should be, because I don't know what all the subject matter
would be.
But when it comes to issues where we might need to, as was previously stated, sway public opinion, have
a good understanding of the fact that this is the state of the agency to make sure that we are on the same
page with the public, with the legislators, with the community groups, et cetera, et cetera, I just want to
put out there for this discussion that we need to make sure that we are as transparent as possible, which I
believe is the end goal, to keep solvency, to make sure that we're doing the right work in the investigation
so that we can have that song sheet so that we can all work together as a Board within our respective
districts and communities.
And so I just want to bring that up. There was one other question that I had for you on this item, which is-and I'm not sure who would answer this. But at the end, where it says financial impact, there's no
foreseeable financial impact, but there may need to reach out to some specialists-- I'm trying to find it in
my Board document-- that might incur some cost.
And I'm just wondering, is there any reason for concern or a reason for us to think about an
apportionment for this work to be done? Mostly because we're talking about planning for the future, and in
doing this group, if we have to reach out to somebody for a specialty need, I understand that.
I would not be the one you're reaching out to. So somebody with the knowledge would need to be. But
how does that compensation then-- how would that be approved?
Is that going to fall under GM CEO Johnson's purview with the permission she's been given by the Board
to create and sign off on contracts? Is that something that comes back to this group and then to the full
Board, mostly for efficiency and not to delay any of the research that needs to be done? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And let me just say a preliminary answer at least. The delegation
of authority resolution by the Board to the General Manager would be in full force in effect and in no way
amended or rescinded by virtue of this working group's operations. So contracts would be handled in the
way that is outlined in the delegation of authority.
And relative to the initial part of your comments, recall that this is not a body that would, in fact, take any
action. This is a body that would inspect, consider, investigate, and based upon that information,
formulate proposals for consideration, first by this committee, and then, secondly, by the full Board. So I
hope that's partially responsive.
But let me open up if-- Madam General Manager, do you have anything further to add to that
observation?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You stated what I was going to say. Whatever is within my
authority-- and quite naturally, when we put that forward, relative to any costs that this may occur, we
would be adhering to our procurement practices and delegation of authority.
And for all intents and purposes, if we were seeking somebody to come on board, for all intents and
purposes, some hourly rate with a subject matter expert would most definitely not be in the hundreds of
thousands or millions of dollars. So thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. Madam Chair, we go back to you for a second bite at the
apple.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Those are really good questions, Director Guzman. And the
first question sort of underlies some of what I was saying about the importance of keeping the discussion
at the Board level as well.
The working group meetings are essentially staff meetings. They're looking at a lot of details. They will be
potentially having subject matter experts. There may be times that we say we want those subject matter
experts to come here or to share the meeting, or we want to hear all of that detail.
But I guess I'm comfortable that those meetings are staff meetings. They're working on a lot of the
background. But I do agree with you. It's important that we bring that forward. And that's why I say I think
that having a standing discussion at this venue is important.
And I think-- yeah, Ms. Johnson sort of answered, and Chair Tisdale answered, the second half about
cost. If we look going forward-- I'll just talk for a minute about TABOR. We will be looking-- we need to be
deciding, are we moving forward with the debrucing?
There's that question. There's also potentially some questions about if there's some mitigation steps we
could take along the way. That may be more financial discussion. But in terms of a debrucing question,
that is something that we will want everybody here-- we all have our own political connections, as you
mentioned.
And we all have our-- we're going to be having our ears out and hopefully getting some advice to be
making those decisions. And those are decisions that I think will be public and all of that.
But the working group is-- we can't do that without getting some facts as a background. So that's what I
see the working group. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We appreciate your additional comments on that.
Are there any other committee members with comments or questions relative to the revenue
diversification working group matter? Seeing none, let me open up now to the other Board members
present this evening. Are there other Board members who have questions or comments to share with us
relative to this discussion item on the revenue diversification working group?
I see no indication of anyone having any further discussion. So therefore, at this time, we'll close our
discussion on the revenue diversification working group. We will turn to our second discussion item on
this evening's agenda, and that is the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study update.
And so I would ask now for Jyostna Vishwakarma-- and I always apologize for messing that up if I do-but Vishwakarma as our Acting Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, and Patrick Stanley, our
Manager of Engineering Programs, to present this item, the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study
update.
So if I may, forgive the informality. Jyotsna, if you would take it away, please.
JYOSTNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Mr. Chair and Board of Directors. I and Patrick Stanley will be
giving an update on the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study. A brief summary of the update is

in the Board packet. It starts on page 20. It's 3 pages. And Patrick has a presentation that is on pages 24
through 42 of the Board packet.
Just as a reminder, the study is to gather a common set of facts to determine the impacts and the
requirements to provide the Northwest Rail Corridor with three trains from Longmont to Denver Union
Station in the morning and three trains from the Denver Union Station to Longmont in the evening. So we
have been in the study for 18 months with Mr. Stanley leading the charge. Mr. Patrick, would you take it
away?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes, I will. Can everybody see the screen OK?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
PATRICK STANLEY: Yep? Good? OK. Thank you, Jyostna, Mr. Chair, Directors. Again, my name is
Patrick Stanley. I serve as the Project Manager for the Northwest Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study. It's
a bit of a mouthful to say all that.
But I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to present an update on the study and what the team has been
working on since our last update, which was to the April 11 Finance and Planning Committee. The
following presentation, as Jyostna mentioned, starts on page 24 of your Board packet if you wanted to
follow along in that manner.
So in today's project update, we'll provide an overview of the Northwest Rail Peak Service feasibility
concept, review the current status and project schedule, provide a summary of the community outreach
and input efforts, and provide a quick look at the upcoming next steps.
So first-- and Jyostna already covered some of this, but I'm going to go over a little bit again-- realize that
there are some maybe some people that aren't quite as familiar with what we're trying to do with the peak
service study, feasibility study. So I wanted to do a real quick history on where we are, where how we got
to where we are, what the concept is. And I apologize if this is redundant for some of the folks that have
heard this probably several times. But hopefully, we'll get through this relatively quickly.
So the Northwest Rail was included as part of the FastRacks vote in 2004. In total, the rail line would
include 42 miles of rail service from Denver Union Station to Longmont. A little over 6 miles of the
corridor, which is known as the Beeline, was completed in 2016 as part of the Eagle P3 project.
The B Line is an overhead electrified segment, and it operates on dedicated and controlled track. And it
terminates currently-- or it terminates right now at the Westminster Station near 72nd and Lowell. The
remaining 35 miles would actually operate on existing BNSF freight tracks from Westminster to
Longmont.
So this is obviously a little bit unique to this particular corridor. We don't have any other rail corridors that
operate in this manner. So following the passage of the FasTracks program, an environmental evaluation
was conducted in 2010 that looked at a full-service scenario. That included 55 trips per day, 11 new
stations, and full double tracking of the entire corridor.
But due to a lack of a dedicated funding source at that particular time, the project was not able to be
implemented. So in 2013, as kind of a continuation of our effort, we worked on the Northwest Area
Mobility Study, or NAMS. And the NAMS project really looked at phasing the full service concept by a
segmented approach.

But through that study, it was determined by, after careful consideration, RTD, along with the Northwest
area stakeholders, really determined that the Northwest Rail was really a longer-term goal, with RTD
committing to continue to explore the rail corridor and provide periodic updates.
So in 2017, the concept of an initial peak service was proposed by the Northwest area stakeholders. So
this really kind of came up from the communities in the Northwest area and their representatives. From
that time until 2021 or so, the RTD staff and stakeholder partners worked to refine what the peak service
concept would look like. And also, during that time, RTD re-engaged with the BNSF to discuss the
feasibility of peak service operation.
So the study is assessing the feasibility of an initial peak period service, which consists of three weekday
morning trips from Longmont to Denver and three weekday evening trips from Denver back to Longmont.
We're partnering with local jurisdictions to plan six new stations along the corridor. And additionally, we're
looking at feasible locations for a maintenance facility in Longmont, since the vehicle technology for the
Northwest Rail would differ from our current commuter rail fleet.
The study is looking at potential train types and technologies that meet our operational requirements. I'll
get into a little bit more about that a little bit later in the presentation. And then, throughout the study,
we're exploring opportunities for potential partnerships, not only with local jurisdictions and stakeholders,
but also with Front Range Passenger Rail.
As I mentioned earlier, the project-- we're proposing six new stations along the extended 35 miles of the
segment-- so starting from the south, those stations are Downtown Westminster, Broomfield 116th,
Flatiron, Downtown Louisville, Boulder Junction at Depot Square, and Downtown Longmont.
So right now, real quick, I'd like to provide an update on the milestone progress for the study. As some of
you may recall from the April 4-- or the April 11 update, the study is broken into a five-milestone process.
Milestone one, which is a review of the previous planning studies that we've undertaken since the
passage of FasTracks in 2004 all the way up to 2022, and milestone two, which is really a discovery effort
of local plans and commitments, have both been completed at this point.
We're currently at the tail end of milestone three, which is really to confirm what we're calling the base
configuration. So the base configuration identifies those elements needed for RTD to operate peak
service concept on the BNSF freight tracks.
The team has started to work on milestone four, which we'll take a closer look at how the base
configuration can support future expansion and how an RTD peak service concept could align with the
Front Range Passenger Rail efforts. Finally, in milestone five, the team will prepare and bring the
common set of facts and study documentation to the RTD Board at the conclusion of the study.
So the image you see here speaks to the project schedule, and we've also included here some major
concurrent events. In the April 11 update, it was anticipated that the consultant work, which is the top
portion right here with HDR, would conclude at the end of 2023.
RTD has contracted with the BNSF Railroad to complete a 30% design and provide cost estimates for
railroad improvements needed for peak service. And that duration-- really, when we got the agreement
done with BNSF, it actually extends out until the middle of 2024. So that's kind of the middle section here
that's shaded is the BNSF schedule.

So as road infrastructure requirements and cost estimates provide key data for our project, the study
schedule has been revised to coincide with the BNSF schedule. Also shown on the slide, though, I
wanted to point out that the Front Range Passenger Rail service development plan is also under way,
and the extension of the schedule will allow more insight into how Northwest Rail Peak Service concept
and Front Range Passenger Rail could be mutually beneficial.
As you can see from the study milestones schedule, milestone three, which is really to determine the
base configuration right here, is getting close to completion, or at least the bulk of it. But since the BNSF
effort, as well as other design refinements, are still progressing, there really is going to be a need to
revisit that base configuration from time to time and kind of plug those numbers and that information back
into our assumptions of what the base configuration is.
This is really symbolized on this schedule by the dashed line that really continues all the way to the end of
the study time frame. The shaded area on the left is approximately where we currently are now. And you
can see we're planning, really in the fall here, our next major upcoming open houses.
So I'm going to spend a few minutes discussing some of the basic configuration elements that we've been
working on over the last several months. The study team is working with the BNSF, as we mentioned, to
determine possible locations of passing sidings, consisting of a second track that parallels the mainline
track.
The BNSF had previously identified approximately-- well, four locations along the corridor for passing
sidings that allow RTD to have priority operations during peak periods. So the concept is the freight trains
would actually pull over onto these passing sidings and would allow RTD to run during those peak period
windows without interference of the freight traffic.
So this is-- I want to point out this is a little bit illustrative. It's really just to get the point across as to how
this really works. Obviously, these freight trains are much longer than this. And just so everybody knows,
these freight sidings are really approximately about 9,000 feet long. So they're pretty significant in length.
The team is also closely coordinating closely with the Northwest jurisdictions to refine station designs.
These efforts include platform locations. They can station park-and-ride configurations and connections to
existing infrastructure.
The team is also looking closely at several operational options and scenarios. It is not the intent of the
study to identify a specific vehicle technology for the proposed service. With that being said, we'd like to
make it clear that an overhead electrical powered system is not feasible for this section of the corridor due
to clearance restrictions along the freight tracks.
But diesel, hybrid, battery, and hydrogen vehicles could all be potentially viable options to meet
operational needs, depending on technology development and implementation frame for the Northwest
Rail if it were to move forward to the next-- sorry, the lights went out on me-- the next stage.
The team is analyzing a maintenance facility at the end of line in Longmont. That's what this image is right
here. Originally, we had nine sites identified for a possible maintenance facility location. Through two
different levels of screening, three potential site locations remain in the study.
It is important to understand-- I want to make very clear, make sure everybody understands this
completely. It's important to understand that we don't have any current plans or authorizations to actually
acquire any property for a maintenance facility.

But what we do want to know is, what are the environmental and equity impacts that would go into a
maintenance facility? So having these three sites allows us to gather some of that information, and we
can come up with an accurate or reasonable cost assumptions for what it would take to mitigate any of
those concepts.
The team has also worked with an outside consultant to understand impacts associated with different
midday layover locations. So obviously, we've got a large gap between the AM peak trains that come in
the morning and the evening trips back. So we have to have a place to put those trains during the day.
So where that happens has a variety of different impacts. We have concessionaires that we need to think
about. Basically, traffic, as you come into the US, is very congested. So kind of the way those operate,
we're taking a look at different scenarios there for how that might work and what is the most efficient way
to do that.
So environmental justice-- it's important to understand the impacts of the project to the environmental
justice communities to avoid disproportionate burdens. So the study team continues to work through the
Environmental Justice Technical Analysis, and we have a series of-- strategic popup events are being
planned with the goal of identifying equity-focused or cultural events, to get that word out a little bit
broader.
A schedule is being developed for impacts and benefits workshops in late September and October time
frames. These workshops will include jurisdictional representatives, design professionals, and key
community-based organizations to help better understand any potential impacts and benefits to the
community as a result of a potential peak service operation.
Finally, the team is working with the RTD Civil Rights Division and our consultant to conduct a preliminary
Title VI service change equity analysis. I would like to just note that we can't do a final Title VI equity
analysis until there's actually a real service change occurring.
But, again, this is one of those things we want. We want to do the preliminary analysis so that we
understand any impacts that might require mitigation or design considerations and how those might factor
into the cost of the project.
So you've heard us say multiple times throughout the study at this point "the common set of facts." And
the common set of facts for this study are intended to provide a single source of consistent information
regarding the facts of the peak service concept.
So these facts consist of the infrastructure requirements. What needs to be constructed in order for peak
service from the existing Westminster Station to Longmont to actually operate?
What are the costs? What will it cost to construct all the necessary infrastructure that's identified? And
how much will it cost to operate? What is the ongoing cost commitment that we would have to have?
Impacts and benefits-- how does a peak service operation impact or benefit the surrounding community?
What needs to be considered in the design and captured in the cost estimates? And then ridership-- what
is the expected usage of the service?
So RTD has received community feedback through the open houses that occurred at the beginning of
2023, popup events, online meetings, surveys, and through the project website. So to date, the study has

generated over 400 comments or email signups, approximately 3,300 total views of self-guided online
meetings, 188 completed surveys, and over 7,000 visits to the project website.
The team is currently conducting informal popups at community events throughout the Northwest
community. We just, probably about a month and a half ago or so, or a month or so ago, did the
Broomfield BrewHAHA.
We also did the Boulder Bike to Work Day. We did two locations. We did the morning and evening
location for those.
We just recently, this last weekend, attended the Climate Action Sunday, The Ways We Travel in
Longmont, had a booth up there, and provided information. And we are currently scheduling and working
with the stakeholders for Rhythm at Roosevelt, Longmont, Westy Fest in Westminster, Saturday's
Farmer's Market in Louisville, and Halloween Spooktacular in Louisville.
In addition to this, we're also going to have those targeted-- we're still working on scheduling some of
those targeted equity- and culturally-- not sensitive, but centered popup events.
So as we stated earlier, we're going to continue to work through the identification of infrastructure
requirements, such as the track configuration and station needs. This information, as well as the BNSF
efforts, are key to understanding the common set of facts that will continue to be developed, as we
mentioned here earlier in milestone three, the base configuration facts.
We will continue to engage the community through public outreach this summer and fall. The team will
schedule-- has scheduled and will continue to schedule and provide information at community popup
events, with the next round of public open houses slated for fall/winter of this year.
A lot of that information is going to depend somewhat on what we get from the BNSF and what we can
actually present as far as the passing sidings as we work through some of those details.
And I would like to thank all the Board participation and supporting project efforts and for your interest in
the project. I know I've seen several of you, several of the Board members, at some of these events, and I
appreciate your support. We're pleased to be able to present this information to you all this evening, and I
would look forward to hearing any questions anybody has.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Dr. Stanley. So we now turn to the committee members in the
first instance for any questions or comments that you may have relative to the Northwest Rail Peak
Service update that we have just received. So, committee members, questions, comments, please feel
free.
Vice Chair Davidson you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. I'll keep it very brief and just say thank you for all that community
outreach and for making the effort to go out to the events. As you mentioned, a common set of facts is the
key. And that frequent communication with not just all the stakeholders that we frequently talk about, but
also the community directly, is very much appreciated. So thank you.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr Vice Chair. Board Chair Guissinger, you are recognized.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I'll keep it brief as well. The workshops were very well received, and I
thought they went very well.
What is the-- what did you call it, an impacts and benefits workshop? Was that something different,
Patrick?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yeah. Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, thank you, sir.
PATRICK STANLEY: OK. Yeah, it's actually an interesting concept our consultant came up with. So
there's actually kind of two of them, really. One of them, first, is more of an internal piece with our experts
from the consultant team.
So we'll get together, and you think about all the feedback that we've gotten so far, all the analysis that
we've done to date, and really kind of get an idea of, OK, where do we think some of this is kind of going,
and really kind of-- really just to put together how we want to and what we want to talk about with the
stakeholders.
Now, that doesn't necessarily mean that that conversation can't go wherever it needs to go. But the
second one is, I think, the critical one. And that's where we want to bring in members of the community's
community-based organizations, our jurisdictional stakeholder representatives, our consultant team, and
us, and really by committee, kind of as a group, talk about what type of impacts and benefits that we see
for the corridor that we might need to take into consideration-- so maybe rather have more of a
conversation about it with some of the key figures here.
Rather than we send something out, and we publish something, we get feedback back and forth, it's really
more of kind of a "work through the issues and think about what the issues are." We don't necessarily
always-- are always going to necessarily understand everything that might be of concern to somebody.
So I think this gives them a forum to hopefully more bring this up in more of a conversational setting so
that we can really dive down deep into it.
So I've never been through one of these before. It'll be interesting. So I can't speak necessarily personally
about how they go. But I'm kind of excited about the concept. I think it was interesting. And I'm glad our
consultants brought this forward as a potential way to help out with our environmental justice and equity
efforts.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Board Chair, anything further from you? Thank you very much. Any other
committee members who have comments? Director Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I am trying to follow along and understand on the BNSF concept design.
I'll be honest. We're doing this design with them, but that doesn't mean we've committed to anything, just
for clarification. We haven't committed to building additional tracks along the BNSF Railroad at this point,
right? This is just conceptual?
DOUG TISDALE: And it looks like General Manager CEO Johnson would like to weigh in on that first.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair, thank you, and, Director Guzman, thank you for the inquiry.
Recognizing we're trying to get a common set of facts, we do not own the right-of-way. So we have to
partner with the BNSF to see what might be feasible.

We entered into an agreement just recently in July. I'd like to commend staff. They forfeited their
recognized holiday, which happened to be Juneteenth, on June 19th of 2023, because that was the only
date that the BNSF could take this meeting. And in doing so, we were able to sit down, have discussions
relative to what might be, because we will have no understanding of operability sans a discussion with
them.
So recognizing that we have engaged or entered into an agreement is specifically to determine what
might service be relevant to it being feasible. So there's no obligation, and we have not done anything.
And plus, the parameters of our engagement does not entitle us to do that, nor I would have the authority
to do so without coming to the Board.
And this is purely a feasibility study. And this will help us align with other type of opportunities that may
present itself, i.e. the Front Range Passenger Rail District as well. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. Yes, I think it's important to note that this is all about not
building a railroad, but using a railroad. And that's why we need the discussions with the BNSF. Director
Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm to understand that we are paying BNSF to complete 30%
design of these sidings. And is that correct?
PATRICK STANLEY: Mr. Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please, proceed.
PATRICK STANLEY: That is correct. We do have a contract with them to provide engineering services
and cost estimating services and modeling. So they have to look at, really, the alignment. We give them
what our schedule is to run trains on the alignment. And they have to take a look at their operations and
see what the impact of that is to their current operations.
So we do have a contract with them to do that. They have engaged a consulting firm to help them go
through that effort for the 30% design. It has been quite some time since we engaged the BNSF kind of in
this manner. I think early on, maybe 2013, I think, they did some plans for us for the full service concepts
and double tracking.
So updated information is pretty urgently needed. I think it's part of this study to really understand what
the current situation is, what the current costs and impacts would be to the BNSF.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Mr. Chair, if I might have a followup?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you may.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Patrick. I went down with the delegation just prior to COVID in 2020 to
the BNSF to talk about these concepts and some of their operational requirements. But so I understand
some of the parameters with which they're operating, including grades and separations and that kind of
thing.

But I just wanted to point out to you that I think we have, as an agency, overcapitalized at the expense of
operations. And I'm really pleased to learn that part of your analysis is looking at the cost of operations for
this potential improvement. And so I just wanted to thank you for that because I think that's a key
component of this whole analysis. So I just wanted to make that comment. Thank you.
PATRICK STANLEY: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. And, again, one of the reasons that we've been
informed relative to the extension of time needed to accomplish the feasibility study is the BNSF timeline,
as you saw earlier in the presentation. Any other committee members who have comments at this time
relative to this discussion item? If not, are there Board members who would like to weigh in with any
comments or questions at this time relative to the Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan Feasibility Study
update?
Seeing no indication of any-- I'm sorry, Director Ruscha, there you are. You just came in under the wire.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair-- narrowly escaped the hand-raising. I apologize. I actually just
had a clarifying question regarding Title VI. So perhaps General Manager Ms. Johnson can address that.
So I understand that environmental justice Title VI analysis is separate from a general service change
analysis. And I was wondering if you might be able to briefly touch on what that would entail for a project
like this or for a study like this.
And I ask because my understanding is that before FasTracks went to the voters and RTD moved
forward with those projects, we did an original Title VI analysis.
And so if you could maybe clarify or expound upon to what the requirements are of the agency when we
do these projects in a phased buildout-- do we need to do a Title VI analysis at each stage of a buildout,
and how might that impact what we have before us in terms of just getting a common set of facts?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And, Madam General Manager, if you can, as the Director indicated briefly,
address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and thank you, Director Ruscha, for your inquiry. So I
heard a couple of questions in there. First, you wanted to know the difference relative to our service
changes. And quite naturally, when we do a service change, we have a threshold relative to a route or a
line being modified by 25%.
If there is an impact to service by 25%, that warrants what we would do a service equity analysis under
the guise of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act. When we talk about environmental justice, what you heard
from Mr. Stanley relative to where we are currently, we have no understanding what the operating plan
would be.
So we can't do anything at this juncture. But if you have a specific buildout, and there's a period of time
which has spanned, it's incumbent upon us to go back and do an additional equity analysis due to the fact
there could be change in demographics. We're looking at disparate impacts and disproportionate burdens
to low-income and minority populations and recognizing that there could be shifts in those categories just
by virtue of development, economic land use, and a myriad of different factors. It's incumbent upon us.

And so specifically, we, as an agency, recognizing the importance of providing equitable transit services,
will be undertaking what would be most prudent as we look to see what impacts our service delivery
model or any type of construction may have on the region in which we're serving, because we have to
look at the 2,342-square-mile route area and other aspects.
As it relates to constructing any type of facility, what impacts could that have on that specific area? So if
we're looking at a maintenance facility in and around Longmont, and that was RTD's facility, what type of
disproportionate burden or disparate impact could it have on that population in that immediate area? So
there's two differing factors that come into play relative to service delivery as it relates to environmental
justice.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager. Anything further that you would like to
probe based upon that, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: All right Thank you very much. Are there any other Board members with comments or
questions relative to this discussion item? He paused. Director Guzman, you're back, sir. Yes?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, just a real quick one. On slide number 12, the base configuration, you did
discuss that there were nine original sites. You're down to three now. You're looking at those. They're
potential sites. I get that.
But perhaps one of the Directors from Longmont might be able to inform the answer on this one. How are
the folks in Longmont looking at this? Are they down with the idea of having it there? Because we do
have to park those trains somewhere.
So I understand the need for it. I just don't know what the city is saying. So anybody know? Just a
curiosity. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Let's go to General Manager CEO Johnson for a response to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Guzman, for the
question. When we embarked upon this critical initiative, because we wanted to ensure we had a
common set of facts, we did it intentionally.
So when a scope of work was developed, we basically leveraged our partners along the alignment
corridor. They are currently still involved. So when we talk about the city of Longmont-- Mr. Stanley's
nodding his head, and he could speak to this more.
But we have staff from that municipality and others that are working in tandem. So when we're talking
about what might options be, those are being generated from our jurisdictional partners. So, Mr. Stanley,
do you want to expound just really quickly?
PATRICK STANLEY: Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yeah, Longmont is part of our SAT,
Study Advisory Team. Phil Greenwald from the city is on there.
And we have pretty good regular communications with them. We have sat down specifically with them
about these potential maintenance facilities and kind of worked with what they see as their city planning
and how it's going as well.

So they have-- without getting into too many details, they've got looking at redeveloping the sugar beet
factory and the STEAM area and whatnot. So we've kind of talked-- in fact, part of the screening criteria
has actually been city zoning and city usage of the area. So we did take that into consideration.
So right now, we've got a fairly favorable view from the city on these locations, kind of try to stay away
from some of them that they had kind of identified for multi-unit housing, some denser housing, and some
things like that as far as the STEAM goes.
But so, yeah, I think the relationship is good. And I think they're optimistic about, certainly, the locations
here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. I'm not trying to step out of my district too far, but we all work
together. So it was just a really-- I love Longmont. My sister's the postmaster up in Louisville. So I'm pretty
familiar with the geography.
I'm just looking at the map, going, what did the city say? So that's really all it was. Thank you so much. I
appreciate that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. We are all one big, happy district. So we absolutely do
watch out for everyone. Are there other Board members who have comments or questions relative to this
discussion item at this time?
I see no other hands raised. All right. That will conclude, then, our discussion relative to the Northwest
Rail Peak Service Plan Feasibility Study update. We now turn to other matters. Are there any other
matters that the committee members wish to bring forward for discussion at this time?
Hearing none, let me just say that I would like you to please note that the Chair does have another matter
to bring up. There was supposed to be another item on tonight's agenda. Through oversight,
inadvertence, inexcusable neglect, that item was not included in your agenda this evening.
This item is a time-sensitive one that needs immediate action. It concerns a passthrough carbon
reduction grant for the City and County of Denver's Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit Project in the
amount of $5 million.
This item is for RTD to serve as a conduit, a funding agent, a passthrough mechanism, for federal grant
funds. This is not RTD money. It is federal money that would simply pass through RTD as a funding
agent.
As a result of this administrative error, the item is not presented tonight. But it will be presented for your
consideration through the following procedure. Specifically, the Executive Committee, at its meeting this
week, will review and discuss and, hopefully, will put on the agenda for the full Board at its meeting at the
end of this month. That is the $5 million passthrough.
And let me now recognize Board Manager Kroll to supplement and possibly even correct anything I've
just said.
JACK KROLL: The only correction I have is that the Executive Committee will meet next week. And as a
result of this coming through the Executive Committee, it will not be eligible to be placed on the consent
agenda. So although Director Tisdale did a great job of explaining the relative formality of this procedural
vote, it is going to have to come as a separate action item to the full Board.

And with that, I just want to also take responsibility that this didn't make it on the agenda tonight. That's
my fault. We should have had it included in the Board packet, and we didn't get that done. And so I
apologize for that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that acknowledgment, Mr. Kroll. The item is corrected. It will
be at the Executive Committee meeting next month, and it will not go on the consent agenda. It would
come on as a recommended action.
Director Broom, if you don't mind, let me go to General Manager Johnson first before going to you.
General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to provide clarification. You stated
that it would go to the Executive Committee next month. It is going to the Executive Committee on
Thursday, September 21.
DOUG TISDALE: I may have misspoken. I thought I said next week, but whatever-- in any event, at the
next Executive Committee meeting, which will be held prior to the September full Board meeting. Director
Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Are industrial revenue bonds involved with this?
DOUG TISDALE: And so who would want to respond to that versus-- General Manager Johnson, you are
recognized.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. This is federal funding that was basically awarded to the
Colfax BRT, recognizing that RTD is the federal designated recipient for federal dollars. So this is through
a competitive financial grant program. So the answer would be no as it relates to what we're doing, sir.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. All right, any other matters based upon this discussion now
that we've just had? I hear none.
So now, relative to our next meeting date, please note that the next Finance and Planning Committee
meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, October 3, same bat time, same bat channel. This is a slight deviation
relative to that scheduling from our standard meeting cadence so that Directors and staff will be able to
attend the APTA TRANSform & EXPO conference the week of October 9.
So please note the next meeting is Tuesday, October 3. And seeing no other discussion from any of the
committee members, let me note for the sake of the record that this meeting is now adjourned as of 7:41
PM Mountain Daylight Time on Tuesday, September 12, 2023.
Thank you all very much for your participation. We look forward to seeing you at our next meeting. Good
evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.

