2022-10-13
Performance Committee
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: --already. All righty. So good afternoon, folks. I'm just getting my computer here set
up. What in the hell is going on here?
Just one second. My computer is going a bit crazy. One second here.
All right, folks. I'm so sorry about that. So you can call the Performance-- the Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened as of 1:06 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to unmute yourselves unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that under current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. Please visit rtd-denver.com to access meeting recordings and the
unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during this afternoon's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
call on you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their
virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing 9. To toggle your mute settings on the
phone, press star 6.
I would now like to call the role for the committee members.
Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: And then myself, and I am here.
Oh, gosh, this is always the worst part. For the sake of the record, I see we also have Directors
Guissinger, Directors Cook, and I think that's it. If I missed anyone, please just throw your hand up or
something and let me know.

I would like to open up public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff
will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, please press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentations or
reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address,
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have one attendee and no speakers.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And any comments that were emailed?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you. All right. So with that, I am going to close the queue, as we have
no participant-- or close public comment, as we have no participants.
As you all know from the agenda, there is only one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon.
It's the fourth amendment to the CEO and GM employment agreement. And it reads, for the Board of
Directors to adopt a fourth amendment to the CEO and GM employment agreement to address the
appraisal criteria for January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022 performance period for General
Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson, as set forth in the proposed amendment. Do I have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I have Directors Dishell and Director Sloan.
I can speak on this a bit, and I will provide Director Dishell as well an opportunity to speak on this, if he
would like to as well.
So we've had this discussion. And so this was essentially drafted, this amendment was essentially drafted
to address the criteria for the year's performance appraisal. So you can see within the document that the
red line language reflects the new term that removes the employee ownership success outcomes from
the appraisal, because only the baseline employee survey was completed this year. And so that's what
you all are seeing and that's what we'll have a discussion about.
And with that, I will let Director Dishell opine, if you would like. Melanie Snyder or General Manager
Johnson, if you all would like to before our discussion.

BOBBY DISHELL: I have nothing to add on top of this. Just quickly, I think everyone here is aware that
this amendment's being moved forward in order to reflect reality based on the timing of when surveys
were received, based-- to correct General Manager's compensation tied to three strategic priorities as
opposed to four, given the timing of the employee engagement survey and when the next one will be
completed.
I've separately spoken with counsel that, confirmed with counsel future years, all four will be included. But
it will always be on a separate-- we'll get the employee engagement information back at a separate time
than the other data that we receive.
I'll defer to Ms. Snyder or other members of staff, if there's anything else to add.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Ms. Snyder, Ms. Johnson, would either of you like to speak?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just for everybody's edification-- thank you so much, Madam Chair and Vice Chair-just for everyone's understanding, recognizing the reason why the employee satisfaction survey is not in
alignment at the same time frame is because to maximize our agency's involvement in the survey,
considering 2/3 of our workforce are unionized employees, we found it most beneficial-- and this has
been my experience working at other transit agencies as well-- doing an employee survey during the
course of a bid. Because you have people that come into the divisions as opposed to being out in their
mobile offices.
So that's why the timeline isn't in accordance with the other surveying. But basically, we will have the
same information going forward relative to seeing how we're doing in relationship to a success outcome.
So that's all I had to add, just to provide that clarity. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I really appreciate it. So at this time, I would ask those Directors who
have questions or who wish to speak to raise their virtual hands and I'll call on you in turn. For Directors
or staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, just press star 9.
Are there any questions, any discussion? All right, Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: So in 2023, will we create a new baseline survey or are we going to use the May, 2022
baseline survey and then do a updated survey toward the end of 2023?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Excellent question. General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Chair Buzek.
Yes, recognizing that we will be doing employee surveys with regular cadence going forward. So the
employee ownership will be factored in to the 2023 survey for myself in the capacity as the General
Manager and CEO. And just to provide some more edification, recognizing that this took more time than
anticipated, it was our desire-- and that's why employee ownership was included-- had assumed that we
would be doing that at the bid in January. But since we have them three times a year, we had to wait until
May. So that's the only reason they're skewed. But now, since we started that, we need to allow for an

entire year for us to work collectively with our employees, specifically the task force and solution group, to
bring things full circle. So thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. We'll do another survey in or around May 2023, is that right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Chair Buzek, that is correct.
VINCE BUZEK: And will those results be the results of the employee satisfaction survey that will be used
in your 2023 performance appraisal?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. Anything else? Good? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually, Director Buzek's second question was the same
one I was going to pose, so it's been answered. So thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: There you go, efficiency. Thanks, Director Buzek. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you for letting me speak today. I have a question. It's not specifically
about the amendment, but-- I recall a while back that Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede requested a list of
the routes that were surveyed for that component of the performance evaluation, or for the Performance
Management System.
And so I apologize if it came through. But if it's available, can we get that? I'd be interested in seeing
which routes were surveyed for that part of the performance evaluation.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. I believe that was provided, Director Cook. But for
everybody's edification, we can re-send that, recognizing that there are routes that were sampled based
on ridership. So we will ensure that would be the routes for the 2020 baseline, and then for the-- I'm sorry,
the baseline that was done in 2021. And we can provide for 2022 as well.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Anything else, Director Cook? All right. She's gone. I think we're good.
Oh, wait. I see a hand. OK, maybe not. All right. Any other questions?

OK. Well, with that, I think I'll call this for a vote. And I'll say, are there any no votes on this action? All
right. Well, no one's speaking up, so I'm guessing you all agree. So the motion passes with all five
members of the committee voting yes on this action.
I will move us on to our next item, which is our discussion items for this afternoon's agenda. I have
nothing to discuss. Are there others that would like to add to either our discussion items or other matters?
Oh, there we go, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. And this is an important committee.
And we have taken care of business in terms of technical items, but I'm wondering about our scheduling
going forward. It seems like there are many things that we need to provide to guide the entire Board in
conducting the evaluation in alignment with our strategic plan. I'm thinking of information such as Director
Cook just asked about, the underlying surveys, the COLA adjustment which will be part of the subsequent
salary setting to the evaluation.
The more guidance that this committee can provide the Board on the subjective evaluation of
components I think is important. And we have not discussed that. We don't have the peer salary
information that General Counsel Snyder has taken it upon herself to provide us. And I know there's
more. And we're already, let's call it, mid October. And we need to get this done by the end of the year.
So I'm suggesting we need more meetings with substantive agendas to prepare for the actual evaluation.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Sloan. So what I heard from you is the route
information for Director Cook, the COLA adjustment for the salary settings guidance to provide to the
Board for the salary information. Is there anything that I missed?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I think if we want to actually discuss the subjective component, so that we're
prepared for the discussion at the Board meeting would also be helpful.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I am getting this down. And I think if it's helpful to you, it would be
helpful to me if I could circle up with Director Dishell and Ms. Snyder, as well as General Manager
Johnson maybe to address some of these and how we might structure agendas moving forward.
I see Director-- or, excuse me, General Manager Johnson, you might have a response.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. And thank you, Director Sloan, for your comments. And
if I'm not mistaken, the information is going to be provided. There was a timeline I believe the Board
Office sent with all of the tentative dates, talking about the information and what the cadence would be
relative to the meetings for the rest of the year. And in doing so, information pertaining to the survey
results, including where the routes were surveyed, were going to be included in the November 2
presentation. And General Counsel Snyder can opine, there was going to be a presentation as well being
made by the consultant with whom she's working.
So I'm just providing that from a contextual vantage point, because all of that was worked out relative to
you all having the appropriate information. Because I too need the information as I'm doing a selfevaluation. So I'm just placing that out in the universe as a gentle reminder. And so General Counsel, I
didn't know if you'd like to add anything additional in reference to your efforts.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, General Manager Snyder. Madam Chair, if I may. Thank you.

So yes, Tai-Shrae Parrish on Board staff sent out an email to the Board on September 15, and that's got
sort of the next steps. So from here on out, obviously we have the Board will be reviewing and taking
action on the amendment that we just discussed. The next meeting would be November 2. That's when
Leah Riley, I believe, is scheduling our survey, or BBC, to come and present to the Board, just like
General Manager said, on the survey results for the community value and for customer excellence. So
those would be the updated surveys.
Then we have tentatively said that November 8 is the date that the GM and CEO is aiming for to submit
her self-evaluation to the Board. And I anticipate that that would be Board staff helping to circulate that
and compile Board feedback. November 11 would be when that period of evaluation would kind of begin.
The Board would have the benefit of the self-evaluation and you could start considering what that
performance evaluation is going to look like.
November 16 is the next meeting of the Performance Committee. And that's when the compensation
analysis is planned to be presented by the vendor that we've retained, which is Gallagher. Then
November 21, the thought being that would be sort of the time period for ending the evaluation period, so
gathering all of the Board's feedback in response to the self-appraisal.
November 30 is going to be sort of the meatiest meeting, I would think, of this committee, where you
would be considering the performance appraisal. But that is also the time I anticipate that you would be
considering any salary increases for recommendation to the full Board for the next year. So next
performance period, starting in January of next year. So you would have the benefit of having the survey
results by then. So that is sort of the meaty meeting.
I think that you would have, I do think it's worth having conversations with the GM and CEO about
whether any portion of that would be an Executive Session. That is an option. So I think that's a
conversation you all might want to have. And then December 6 would be the special Board meeting
where the Board would take final action to approve the appraisal as well as approving any salary increase
that might occur.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much, Melanie, or General Counsel. I really appreciate it.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Sloan. Are you-MARJORIE SLOAN: I appreciate the reminders from both CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder. It
seems like we are really packed and there is a schedule for all that information. The only thing-- and I
appreciate it, because I don't remember that email. I'm sure it was sent. And I'll have to review it. The only
thing that I didn't hear which will be relevant is the COLA adjustment that takes effect in November.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Please. Please proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: So yes. So there is an automatic COLA that's effective on the anniversary date for
the GM and CEO, which is November 9. So that is based on the consumer price index for the Denver
liquid area. So that's automatic under the contract. That's not actually part of the appraisal.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And do we already know that amount?

MELANIE SNYDER: We do. I see Doug MacLeod is on. I don't want to jump too far ahead, but-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good afternoon. Yes. I actually just got it today. Was looking at the consumer price
index in the contract that was the consumer price index reported by the Bureau of Labor statistics for the
Aurora-Denver area. That report from September, 2022 is the most recent report. They report it every
other month.
I apologize to Ms. Johnson. I haven't had a chance to discuss this with her. However, that-- and I will-that increase, the percentage increase in consumer price index over the past 12 months through
September, is 7.7%.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you for that hot off the presses info. I appreciate it.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Really appreciate that. Sorry that you learned that on the call, General
Manager Johnson. Sorry about that. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. What was I going to say, though? That email that General Counsel Snyder
alluded to, can we just have that re-sent to all of us?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. That's it.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. And I also read those dates off at our last meeting as well. So I'm happy to
repeat those, if necessary. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you again. And I don't have the amendment, even the packet in front of me right
now. So forgive me. But didn't, in a prior amendment, wasn't there a mention of-- we eliminated the
brackets. We had goalposts on either end of the potential increases. And with that amendment, if I recall,
we eliminated the 15% as the potential high end. And I think the wording was that we would establish that
new amount based upon the compensation analysis.
So do we have, within our schedule, a plan for having the Board, or actually, this committee, discuss that
and then recommend to the Board what that new number would be? If I'm right. I mean, like I say, I'm
going from memory.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, I'm happy to take a stab at addressing that, if that's helpful.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Please do. Yeah, please, thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Director Cook. Yes. So in the third amendment to the GM and CEO's
contract, that is when the Board added the provision about having a competitive solicitation in order to do
a compensation analysis. So that's the Gallagher analysis that's happening right now. That information is
going to be used by the Board to determine what kind of salary increase potentially might be in effect
starting January of next year.
So with the timeline that I just highlighted, I thought that that would come at the November 30 meeting. So
the committee would have had the benefit of hearing the salary, or the survey information presented on

November 16, a little time to digest that. And then I anticipated that would be the time for discussion
about what that would look like. And then under that third amendment, the Board will come up with, or the
committee will come up with a recommendation for a percentage increase, if any. And that is governed
by, it's in exhibit B. And for folks, for this packet, it's on page 9.
So in exhibit B, you would come up with some percentage of increase. 50% of that percentage increase
would go to the base and 50% would go to the incentive compensation. And then that amendment, that
exhibit also breaks down 50%, 25% of the compensation increase for the base is going to be based on
the objective criteria, 25% on the subjective values criteria. And then the incentive compensation, which is
50% of whatever percentage you come up with, is based on the objective criteria again.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Madam Chair, a quick follow-up? So if I recall too then, the percentage we set
now carries through as part of the structure of the framework going forward for the remainder of the
contract. Is that correct? So the percentage the Board decides on on 11/30 isn't just for the coming year
increase but it's also then what the framework uses as the bracket, or the potential increase for the
remainder of the contract period?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Please proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: So if I'm understanding your question, Director Cook, it will be used-- so that
percentage that the Board decides will be used to set the compensation for next year. But that is
something that the Board can always adjust going forward each year.
SHELLEY COOK: Absent that adjustment, though, it would be the amount that's carried forward as the
potential maximum, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Right.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you very much. Also, just quick, you were going to get us her current
base pay, weren't you, at some point here?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I'm happy to send out that information now. Or it will definitely be included in
the packet for November 30. But I'm happy to send. Or ensure that we send out the salary information
right after this meeting too.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, the packet's fine. Thank you. And sorry, GM/CEO Johnson. We talk like you're not
here. Please forgive me, with much respect.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Any other questions?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Sorry. Thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No, thank you. All right. And if there is nothing else and no other matters to
discuss, our next meeting is Wednesday, November 2. And I will adjourn this meeting as of 1:31 PM on
October 13. Thanks, folks.

