Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 13, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held July 12, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Brohl; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley,
and Tayer.
Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins,
Tyler Kealy, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Bob Medina, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Massimo Rolle, Jannette Scarpino,
John Shonsey, John Stark, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Christina Tubb,
Bill Van Meter, Mike Washington, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Celina Benevidez – Celina Inc., Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Stan Groneck
– ATU 1001, Lesa Nery, and Anna with Celina Inc.

Call to Order:

****
Committee Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
Committee Chair Brohl indicated that this would be her last DBE/SBE
committee meeting and really likes what this committee stands for and
that work that it has done, especially within the last year. Committee
Chair Brohl further added her sincere appreciation for being a part of
the committee for the past few years and for being vice chair last year,
and chair this year. It is with great comfort to know that the gavel will
be passed to Director Malpiede who will now be the DBE Committee
Chair and Director Deadwyler will be the new Vice Chair. She then
passed the gavel to Director Malpiede who facilitated the meeting.
Committee Chair Malpiede noted that she could not thank Director
Brohl enough for her leadership and it has been a true pleasure to have

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 2 of 3

been able to work alongside her.
I.

Update
 Compliance Monitoring and Reporting
Christina Tubb explained that this update explains the second of the five pillar
structure that was first introduced to the Board a few months ago.
 Prompt Payments
Director Cohen inquired how the finance was in the West Corridor and inquired if
there were any issues with prompt payment. Christina Tubb indicated that the Gold
Line was doing well and Michael Washington added that there have not been any
issues or reports of late payments for the past two months nor have any been
brought to our attention.

II.

Other Matters
 Subcontractor Performance Self-Insured Program (SPSP)
Marla Lien explained that this program had been in development for quite a while. In
2004 RTD approached various contractor groups, small business groups around the
community, because we were developing MOU’s for the implementation of
FasTracks. A constant theme that we heard while meeting with these groups was
that one barrier for small businesses to get into construction of our programs was
getting performance and payment bonds. While we do not require the subcontractors
to have bonds, state law requires that the prime contractors have performance and
payment bonds and a lot of times to get those bonds to qualify, the prime
contractors will flow those requirements down to the subs. The subs at the lowest
tier were indicating that it was a barrier to getting work. After FasTracks passed a lot
of time was spent to see if we could remove that barrier. The first program that we
were able to implement this program was the West Corridor and now several years
into construction we can inform the Board as to how this program is working.
Bob Medina noted that one of the primary objectives that we were looking at when
the program was developed was to provide alternative options for DBE/SBE’s and
emerging businesses to obtain bonds. What we found was that the bond market for
these groups was very tight. We approached various carriers that write bonds to
inquire if they would help with this program, but the different carriers were not
interested nor did they want to bond companies that did not have a long financial
history; therefore we opted to go with the program that we developed by ourselves.
A Loss Fund was created in the event that if any losses were incurred we would still
have funds available to pay on a performance or payment bond and the established
limit per contract has been set at $500,000. Another component of the program is
the Evaluation and Monitoring programs so that when we evaluate a contractor it is
completed the same way that an insurance company would evaluate the company by
reviewing their financial background, their history, and every other aspect that an
insurance company would examine. Once the companies are admitted into the
program they go through the Monitoring program headed by the project management
consultant to ensure that there are no failures or claims. Thus far there hasn’t been
any. The project management consultant verifies that the contractor is meeting

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on June 14, 2011
Page 3 of 3

payroll, paying their vendors, and are doing the job that they have been hired to do.
The benefits that we are seeing is that it has broadened the participation of the
DBE/SBE community, it has increased competition for the lower bid contracts, and
reduced the guaranteed maximum price from the general contractor since they are no
longer requiring bonds from their subs. One risk involved is that there are no
commercial bonds that we can go against to file a claim and inserts RTD into a
contractor/subcontractor relationship that might not be as desirable. Another
potential risk is the depletion of the $500,000 loss fund prior to the completion of
the West Corridor. However, as the stewardship report indicates, there have not been
any claims and there is an assumed savings of $120,000.
Director McMullen added that this program took years to put together and to become
a success. This is another reason why RTD is doing so well. He congratulated staff
for their efforts.
Director O’Boyle inquired if this concept would be expanded to other areas of RTD.
Bob Medina noted that this was our first experience with this type of program. It was
essentially the test program for us since we were unsure if it would work, how the
program would develop, or if it would even be successful. It was agreed to expand
the program to the rest of the future lines and possibly expanding the contract value
as well. Marla Lien added that this would be for future lines that we control. In the
case of Eagle P3 it will be up to the discretion of the concessionaire as to whether or
not they require bids, but we are looking to expand this program on the additional
corridors such as US36, I-225 and North Metro.
Director Deadwyler requested a copy of the manual that is provided to the DBE’s.
General Manager Washington added that this program is one of the best things that
RTD has put into place in the DBE area and there are numerous DBE’s that would not
have been able to obtain a contract without this program. He noted that no other
transit agency has implemented this type of program in the country.
Director Bagley inquired to know the status of the signing of the FFGA. General
Manager Washington explained that while we still do not have a date for the signing,
we hope to find something out this week. As soon as we receive that information it
will be forwarded to the Board.
General Manager Washington added that he received a press release that the
Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMPTO) Colorado has been named
the chapter of the year nationwide. The national conference will be in Philadelphia
next week. Mr. Washington will be in attendance and will also tour the Hyundai
Rotem plant where the new East Corridor vehicles are being manufactured.
III.

Next Meeting Date – August 9, 2011

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.

