2022-07-21
Executive Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Great. The Executive Committee will now come to order. We're convened as of 12:01
PM, and this is July 21, 2022. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself
unless you're recognized to speak. I will now call the roll. First, Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Chair Buzek is here. Other Directors in attendance include Director Tisdale.
Welcome Director Tisdale. Good to see you.
Staff in attendance is, are, Debra Johnson, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes, Brandy Hunter, Marie Snell, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Michael Davies, Barbara McManus, John McKay. And if I've missed anybody, please speak up.
Public comment is next. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the committee or if any member of the public would like to
submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no hands up in the queue, and there were no communications in the Board
of Directors email box.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no participants in the queue and no emailed comments, we'll close the public
comment period at this time. Second, there is one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon.
And the recommend-- before I start that, I have a question for our General Counsel Melanie Snyder.
Melanie Snyder, here's the question. So with regard to paragraph six of the draft of the amended
delegation, I want to add a small phrase at the end of one sentence. Should I do that as part of the
motion, or should we do the motion second and then do an amendment, go through that whole process?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, what I'd recommend just so we can see how
this discussion unfolds, I would just recommend that you do a regular motion to adopt, start discussion,
and then let's collect any potential amendments as we go along the way. And then we can make those as
one motion.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good, good. Thanks for that clarification. So recommended action is for the Board of
Directors to approve resolution number blank, series of 2022, regarding delegation authority and
competitive selection, which updates the delegations of purchasing and contracting budget transfer and
settlement authority consistent with the Board's bylaws, the RTD Act, regulations published by the
Federal Transit Administration, and the Board's historical practices with the exception of certain contracts
and other matters enumerated within the resolution. Do I have a motion to approve?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: And-- Director Sloan. Do I have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: I had three I think. So I heard Director Whitmore first. Director Whitmore is the second.
And I'll talk about this. But do we have any discussion at this point?
So by way of background, we just start with that. There were a number of comments from members of the
Executive Committee and the Board of Directors with regard to the original delegation with authority, and
these comments consisted of concerns and other expressions by Board members regarding certain types
of contracts that historically have come before the Board for approval but were authorized by the prior
delegation.
So in order to correct that situation, we have decided-- some of us, at least the mover and the second-have decided to amend the delegation to clarify those types of contracts that should come before the
Board. Are there any further-- any further discussion or any amendments by any members of the
Executive Committee?
At this point, I would propose an Amendment. And is this the proper time, Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair. If you don't mind, I just had a few comments-VINCE BUZEK: OK, go ahead, sorry. Yeah.
MELANIE SNYDER: --that I wanted to raise for the Executive Committee's consideration just to ensure
that we have a fulsome understanding of what it is that's being adopted here, if that's OK.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet.

MELANIE SNYDER: OK, terrific. So a couple of recommendations-- one, I recommend that the Executive
Committee or a member of the committee consider removing this from the consent agenda. I think it's an
important delegation to the GM and CEO.
And given that this didn't go through another standing committee, I think it's just good practice to ensure
that we have some full and robust conversation. I think that some of the challenges last go around when
the Board adopted the March delegation.
That was on the consent agenda, and there wasn't quite a bit of conversation. And I think that may have
led to some of the Directors feeling surprised about what was included in that. So that's one
recommendation.
The other is I just-- it doesn't sound like we were ready to have any conversation about the scope of the
exclusions. But I think it's really important to get clarity around what it is that the Board's adopting.
So some of the different categories-- for example, when you're talking about studies that might come to
the Board, there's obviously a range of studies that are done that are brought to the Board later for action.
So that could be everything as large as the Reimagine study for example, or something as small as
analysis that's done by our GIS survey that that consultant does-- performs that work for annexation
petitions and most recently with redistricting. So I think it's important to understand the scope and the
volume of potential contracts that are going to fall into these additional categories.
The other would be having some clarity around whether it's the intent of this action to make this
retroactive or just moving forward. There was some language that was added to the end of the-- the end
of the resolution that talks about how the Board retains all authority that's not included in this current
resolution. That, of course, is the foundation of the Board's authority.
The Board has plenary authority unless you delegate it away. But I do want to make sure that we have
clear understanding and staff is really clear going forward. So for example, the Board recently approved
the Northwest Rail study. The Board recently approved a delegation to the General Manager for Colorado
BRT 119.
So it's not clear to me whether the intent of this resolution is because both of those would fall within the
language of this these proposed exclusions. Is the intent that now-- that those prior delegations to the
Gmail are rescinded since it's not specifically set out in this resolution? Is the intent that every single
Amendment to the Northwest Rail or change order comes to the Board?
And then I think that there are potentially some opportunities to discuss the language with regard to the
25% amendment language. Chair, when you talked about how the intent of this resolution is to address
contracts that would historically come to the Board, making it clear that they should come to the Board, I
just want to flag, for example, that that language right now, as stated, says that outside from these
exclusions, the General Manager has authority to execute amendments and change orders and exercise
option years up to 25% of the original contract.
I flag that because, as you all know, the Board typically does approve our large contracted services
contract. So those could be, for example, in the $90 million range. As drafted and as adopted by the
Board right now, 25% of that could be exceeding $20 million, which, of course, is more than the general
$2 million delegation.

So I don't want anyone to be surprised, for example, because that is the way that that delegation reads if
those contracts and exercise of options don't come to the Board. So those are just a few examples of
what I wanted to highlight for just making sure that you all are clear on the scope of what you're adopting.
The other-- and I can certainly just defer to General Manager and CEO Johnson-- is sort of the
operational and administrative challenges potentially. It's certainly within the Board's authority to request
to be able to review scopes of work before those are put out for solicitation. And then-- and that is what
this resolution is envisioning.
I just want to make clear that this resolution is requiring then that every contract within the exclusions are
going to come to the Board for action a minimum of two times-- first at the outset for review of the SOW
and then for final approval after the procurement closes. That's not to say anything about potential
amendments and change orders and exercises of option years.
So I raise that just because I think it's important to recognize that it's possible that this could create some
administrative challenges and some operational challenges that might prove unworkable. Certainly it's
something that I think Debra Johnson can speak to.
And then the other concern potentially I have, and I think it's nothing that we couldn't work through, but
just highlighting what that might look for 15 Directors reviewing a scope of work that can be potentially
very highly technical. Are we envisioning that we're going to have 15 Directors making motions? I think
that-- I think that's worth having a bit of discussion about.
And then also keeping in mind that as you discuss, or as the Board would discuss a potential scope of
work, it's possible that members of the Board could inadvertently share information that could put RTD at
a negotiating disadvantage if vendors are hearing all of the business considerations that are going into
the crafting of a scope.
So I raise all of those not as a roadblock, but I just want you to all have a thoughtful discussion and make
sure that you are understanding the implications of what's being proposed.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. I see first Vice Chair Guissinger, hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think GM CEO Johnson has her hand up if she wants to go first.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. GM CEO Johnson, why don't you go first?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, OK, well, thank you very kindly. And thank you, General Counsel, for that. I just
wanted to offer up, reading through the Board report and the amendments, I'm seeking clarity as well
outside of what General Counsel raised.
But when we look at the exclusions-- for instance, when we talk about public meetings and things of the
like, there is oftentimes things in which we need to do relative to having a public comment period. And
one such example is the requirement pursuant to the FTA's guidance.
Especially when we look at inclusion relative to establishing a disadvantaged business enterprise goal,
there's a process in which we have to do a 30-day public comment period. And so when we have public
meetings of that nature, is that meant to be included there as well when we're going out to ensure that
people understand what we're putting forth as a race-conscious and a race-neutral disadvantaged
business enterprise goal?

I broach that because that's something that we have to do on a triennial basis going forward as we get
our DBE plan approved and also our goal approved. So I'm seeking some clarity as to what that means
because we will have to work that through a process and ensure that we are in compliance with the
circular that is put out by the Federal Transit Administration.
So that's one such example I wanted to provide because upon reading the Board materials, I was not
clear as to what that would mean because there is a lot of public input that we seek relative to our
statutory and regulatory requirements and being a recipient of Federal Transit dollars. So I would
appreciate having guidance from the Board on this because if it's the contrary, then we're going to have to
start well in advance as we submit our uniform compliance reports twice a year.
And I do not want to put this organization in a precarious position where we jeopardize the federal funding
in which we receive because we need to factor in working in tandem with the Board to make those
determinations and keeping in mind the Western state's decision and things of the like that we must
adhere to. So I would appreciate any clarity that this Board could provide me and doing what's best in the
interest of this agency, especially as being recipients of federal dollars. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. And I was just pulling up the section of the
delegation. Where did I just lost it now? That would refer to-- well, so there's a section in the amended
delegation on packet page seven when we define some of the exclusions.
That is public or community liaison or outreach consulting services, such as town hall meetings or other
community input gathering services. And so I would assume, unless any other Director has something to
the contrary, if we are hiring a consultant to perform that service, then we would want to have a say in
that type of a contract.
If we're doing it ourselves, clearly doesn't fall within the exclusion. So I'm just wondering, how often do we
hire contractors and consultants to do that type of work? And I lost my-- here we go. God.
So can anyone answer that? So maybe do we hire a consultant? Ms. Johnson, do we hire consultants to
do that type of work?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, right, that's why I was posing the question, Mr. Chair. Thank you very kindly
because there could be a component in relationship to the other work we're doing. That's why I called out
the DBE example, for instance.
We may have a consultancy that we leverage in reference to garnering input from small, disadvantaged
businesses or other meetings going forward so they would understand the requirements specified as it
relates to our race-neutral or race-conscious goals. So that, for all intents and purposes, is still the
retention of a consultant to provide a forum in which one can garner feedback because we must present
that in a public forum.
So that's why I use that as an example because as written, I would interpret that as coming forward to the
Board because there's a facet of that. It's not a standalone, but for all intents and purposes, you can have
a subcontractor that is leveraging that outreach component of an overarching initiative of which we have
to adhere from a regulatory standpoint.
And so that's why I needed some direction relative to that. So getting back to your point, oftentimes when
we're garnering feedback, especially when we're trying to ensure that we are doing the people's work in

an open and honest approach, that we would leverage some consultants in some entities. So it could be
very small, looking at surveying as we go out to garner input on some aspect-- the data collection.
And I don't have the information readily available, but we could provide that and have our contracts and
procurement staff query and see how many of those aspects come full circle within a larger contract. I
don't know the time in which it would take to do that, but I do know that oftentimes, there is that
component.
Another such example is using community-based organizations to garner feedback. For instance, when
we have 27 safe harbor languages and we're looking for people to engage with those populations
because we may not have the subject matter expertise in reference to cultural nuances, and so that still
would be a public relations consultant having a town hall meeting. So that's the clarity in which I'm
seeking. So that's just another example.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And the example that you gave with regard to that type of outreach, would that be- ultimately, would that information, garnered through the contractor at the public meeting, would that
specific example typically be something that comes back before the Board for approval?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It would be in such a way when you look at a Title Vi report because there's certain
aspects of it. We have to do a-- we have to do a language assistance program. There's limited English
proficiency. All of those components comprise the report in which we have to submit to the FTA. So
there's different elements that overarchingly contribute to what the Board weighs in on that we submit to
the federal government for approval going forward.
And so it's in light of the conversation that has ensued. That's why I'm seeking the clarity because there is
a lot of different pieces that enable us to collect that data as we move forward. So we can provide a
comprehensive report in the interest of creating equal opportunities.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. So it sounds like you're saying that ultimately, that example, the information would
come before the Board in some fashion for us to approve and take Board action on. How often does that
happen? That example, how often do you have to prepare that report and-DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, we just came to-VINCE BUZEK: --hire a consultant and all that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. We just came to you just a few months ago and brought forward the Title VI
program that is required on a triennial basis. And so as we look at other aspects for your consideration,
we could do some micro version of that when we're talking about adding back transit service.
We could, in some instance, leverage that going forward, especially if we're looking at a population, and
we want to ensure that we can go out and speak to somebody who is fluent in Khmer. And so that's still
public outreach. And so to the point that you're asking how frequently is it done, it's contingent upon a
multitude of different issues. And as I said, I'm not in a position to give you a number. And I would not
want to misspeak. But I just know, in my experience, that these elements help shape a program in which
we're presenting.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood. So I guess, based on all that discussion, my feeling would be to-- we'll leave
that in as is and see how things go. If it's too cumbersome, we can come back to amend.

But I don't want to-- what's the saying? Get rid of the good for the benefit of the perfect or something like
that. So I know we're going to-- nothing's perfect. Any Directors have any comments about any of these
comments by Ms. Snyder and Ms. Johnson? First Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, just a couple of questions, back to the comments from Ms.
Snyder. You mentioned a couple of studies that we approved. And it was your concern that change
orders and amendments and options to extend would be too small to be bringing to the Board, that it
would bring too many to the Board. I didn't fully understand that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, if I may. Thank you. So the concern with that one is two parts. So one
would potentially be the numeracy of the change orders and amendments and also that they could be
minor, that it could actually create some operational or administrative delays where it's not really
something that rises to the level of such a high level policy concern that the Board would really want to
weigh in on.
And then the second was the language that's added to the delegation. I'm looking at the red line on
packet page 16 at the very bottom of that page. There was language that was added that says the
Board's power is not delegated to the General Manager, by this resolution are reserved to the Board.
And so my concern was whether the intent was to say, with that language, there's nothing in here
superseding or rescinding any prior delegation. But that language, it's not clear what it's doing, what work
it's doing if it's not intended to be sort of retroactive to some of the other delegations that are outside this
resolution.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So retroactive-- I mean, we've approved those ones that you gave as an example I
think. So retroactive in what sense?
MELANIE SNYDER: So the question would be, is the expectation, for example, that the Northwest Rail
study or the Colorado BRT 119, that staff would now, because it's in the category of the subject matter
exclusions, is the expectation that staff would be bringing all change orders exercises of options or any
amendments for things that have already been approved?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So what would you suggest on that, that we have a minimum value or something,
or-MELANIE SNYDER: I think that could be one option. I think the threshold question of that retroactivity is
would be really important to nail down first. And then you could kind of figure out how to add some
language to kind of calibrate what gets brought to the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So retroactivity meaning that something that's already been contracted, if there's an
option to extend, that would come to the Board, right? This came up with respect to our public affairs
team. And I think that both of those contracts have, or maybe all three contracts, have options to extend.
So I guess that's an example of where that makes sense, to have the option to extend come to the Board.
Those had always come to the Board, and they didn't now. But I see your concern. Change orders
happen all the time. Maybe that's something we could look at. Is that what you'd recommend?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Like I said, I think I would just recommend understanding what the intent of this
updated resolution is with respect to existing contracts and ones that have already been approved by the
Board and then looking to see if you had-- looking to see how you identify what level and what threshold

comes to the Board if it's an Amendment because right now, it's-- as drafted, it's saying all amendments
would come to the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I guess my thought would be, it should apply for any contracts that are
continuing because we're going to be approving contracts in the future, and it would apply there. But I
hear your concern about minimal change orders and amendments.
I don't think that was what that was intended to cover. It might be something we want to look at, or the
committee may want to say what Director Buzek said, Chair Buzek said that maybe we move forward and
see.
And then your other recommendation about the 25% amendment language, that 25% could be 20-- could
you just run through that briefly for me again?
MELANIE SNYDER: Sure. So I'm referring to packet page 15. That's the red line. So at the top of that-- at
the top of that page in section 6, the existing language. And it's not an issue with respect to the red line.
But the existing language says that contract amendments and change orders, as may be necessary from
time to time, not to exceed a cumulative total of 25% of the original contract. So I just wanted to be clear,
that language as drafted means that if you have a contract-- so for example, we have multiple contracted- services contracts in the $90 million range.
Right now, this authorizes the GM and CEO to exercise an option here as long as it's below 25%.
Obviously 25% is around $22 million. And so that is above the $2 million general delegation. And so I
think there's an opportunity-- I just want to be clear on whether-- if the intent is that the General Manager's
authority outside the exclusions is capped at $2 million, that's not what that language says.
VINCE BUZEK: And first, Vice Chair Guissinger, Ms. Snyder, my proposed amendment will address that.
So, just so you know. That one issue at least.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's handy. OK, that's my questions for now. Thanks.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. General-- ugh, I just bit my tongue. I think you talked about intent. And I
think I would prefer not to overcomplicate this.
And as Chair Buzek said, let's kind of leave it as is. And then we can revisit it. One of the comments you
made was with respect to scopes of work and having potentially 15 different sets of comments on a fairly
technical issue.
And I think this Board was concerned more about the policy implications of scopes of work and not so
much the minutia of the technical details. That's kind of the sense that I got from Board members.
So I can see where it-- if people were inclined to comment on every little detail of the Technical scope of
work, that could be very cumbersome. But I think that the intent was really to take a higher-level look at
these scopes of work to ensure that there weren't some policy implications.

And then with regard to GM CEO Johnson's comments about such things as the Title VI compliance, it
seems to me that we could add some language in there that would say something with regard to
regulatory requirements that I think we should provide some latitude there because if our Civil Rights
Division needs to get a consultant to do some work to support that effort that's required by FDA or
required by law, it seems to me we should not get in the way of them getting that work done in a timely
fashion. That's my comment. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity to address the
Executive Committee in regards to this revised delegation memorandum. I've got three comments I'd like
to present right now. And I may have more later as the discussion goes on-- actually four comments.
The first is that I think Director Buzek's intended amendment addresses some of the technical concerns
that have been stated relative to this 25% situation. So I think that's going to be resolved.
But going back to the question specifically as it relates to, for example, the Title Vi report recall, that's
something that is a triennial exercise. That means it's every three years. So over the course-- and we just
did it. Over the course of the next 36 months, I think we'll have a chance to see how this works and
whether or not it needs tweaks.
And to paraphrase and perhaps update the comment from the Chair, let not the perfect be the enemy of
the good. And let's go ahead and see this and try it. Relative to the reservation clause at the end, the
reservation clause is added for the sake of clarity and the avoidance of confusion. That's all.
It is intended to make it very clear and to restate what the statute states, that the powers not specifically
delegated are reserved. It's merely a restatement of the law. The third comment relative to retroactivity-my understanding is that it would not retroactively apply to the approval of contracts already approved
and signed. But it would apply to change orders and amendments to those contracts. And I think that's
clearly stated.
And to repeat what several other Directors on the committee have already stated, try it. You'll like it. And
as we need to modify, we can do so. And I think we're in a position to do that. As of now, those are my
comments. And I thank you for your patience.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. GM CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Tisdale for your comments. A
point of clarification-- while I may have used the Title VI program as a reference that is done on a triennial
review, to the point I was raising relative to our DBE goal, if we are not achieving the goal as set forward,
we have the option to do a shortfall analysis and modify that based upon race-conscious and race-neutral
goals, which could be done on an annual basis.
And we submit a uniform report every six months. And so I want to be clear, that is not just happening on
a triennial basis. I just use that for a point of reference more specifically as we talk about other regulatory
compliance, recognizing that we have the public transportation agency safety plan.
We have to submit documentation in compliance with regulations. That too may constitute outreach
efforts that we may be doing as well. So I just wanted to be clear that I cited one such example, and it's
not just on a three-year basis. So thank you very much for the opportunity to clarify my statement.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Director Tisdale, your hand's still up. Do you have something else
to add-- no. Good. Ms. McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I don't know the answer to this, but I just would like to put it out there. It's
always been the opportunity and the pleasure to bring things forward that the agency needs completed to
move its business forward in a timely fashion.
And I'm wondering under some of these changes needing to be done in a timely fashion, would we
anticipate having multiple special Board meetings to be able to accommodate these changes as needed?
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I guess I wouldn't see these types of contracts coming to us regularly on an
emergency basis and that we should know far enough in advance that yes, some things will come before
us twice. You know, approving a scope of work and then ultimately to approve the final product.
- If there are-- if there is something that comes up on an emergency basis that has to be brought before
the Board that fits within this category, I guess-- I can't think of anything in the recent past where that
happened. But I guess we'll see how that goes.
And a lot of this-- from my-- let me respond to some of the things from my perspective. Can we remove it
from consent agenda? Yes, I request that we remove this from the consent agenda.
Let's put it on the-- have discussion. In terms of the range of studies and things like that, I hope it's not
going to be an issue. And if it does, then I think we'll tweak this. We don't want-- we don't want 1,000
things being thrown on an agenda.
And I hope that's not a plan. But we don't want that to happen, for sure. So if we see things becoming too
cumbersome and get the real detail from the real life implementation, yeah, I say we go back and take a
look.
And as Director Tisdale said, retroactive versus moving forward, yeah. Anything that has happened, any
contractor has proven in the past, but any change orders and things like that before this would apply.
And finally-- just see. Forgot the scope of work stuff. Yeah, I mean, to the extent that there's a scope of
work approval that fits within the exclusion contract, and I think we got some things out of there that
should keep a lot of the technical stuff away from us.
But I don't know how we can address that to make sure it doesn't get out in the public. Do we do scope of
work reviews in an executive session? Is that an appropriate product for an executive session because it
may impact intellectual property or things like that?
So I don't know. But-- and then when the time is appropriate, I'll read into the record, my one amendment
to paragraph B6. And I see Ms. Snyder with her hand up. Go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Chair. So we can certainly address the executive session sort of as we
go, as we look at potential scopes. There might be things like sensitive security information or other
things like that that would warrant an executive session. So that's a really good point.
Just one last little quibble with Director Tisdale's point. I totally agree that if the intent, it sounds like, is not
to make this language about the reservation of rights to-- not to intend to undermine any actions already

taken by the Board. I would just recommend just striking a language that says by this resolution so that it
just says that the Board's power is not delegated to the General Manager or reserved to the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And I see Director Tisdale shaking his head, makes sense. So I'm going to move to
amend-- are we done with discussion? Any more discussion?
OK. I'm going to move to amend the proposed resolution as follows. And Ms. Snyder, do I need to read
the entire motion over and incorporate the amendment? Would that be helpful?
MELANIE SNYDER: I'll leave it to you. I think it's fine if you want to just highlight the language that you're
wanting to amend.
VINCE BUZEK: So with regard to the current motion that's been approved, I would move to amend the
resolution as follows, that in paragraph B6 on packet page eight, page three of the resolution, after the
first sentence where you see the period, cumulative total of 25% of the original contract amount, continue
that sentence with the following language. "Provided such amount does not exceed $2 million, period."
And then the rest of that paragraph remains the same. That should address the concern of extending or
amending contracts and having that be an amount over $2 million. And then the final amendment I would
propose is with regard to paragraph I as in Ida.
I would recommend that that should read, "The Board's powers not delegated to the General Manager are
reserved to the Board, period." That's my amendments. Do I have a motion to approve that amendment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: And do I have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Guissinger and Catlin in that order. So we have a motion and an approval of amendment.
And all in favor say aye.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Opposed? Anybody? OK. All right, thanks. And thanks for that discussion. And between
now and the Board meeting, let's give some thought. I think the one kind of unresolved-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry, go ahead, Mr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Don't you now need a motion to approve the resolution as amended-- or not a motion, a
vote on-- there was a motion to approve.
VINCE BUZEK: Correct. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Now you've amended. Now you need to vote on the motion as amended.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Robert, for those rules. So we've got an approval of the amendment. Now I go
back to the original motion. And we have a motion and a second on the original. Are there any no votes
on the original motion?
Great. Seeing none, the motion, with the resolution as amended, will move forward. And I think we just
really keep a close look on this because I don't want this to be cumbersome overly.
It's going to become just overly cumbersome to staff and make their jobs difficult. So let's see how this
goes now. All right, where am I? Next.
We have the July Board meeting agenda review. So we have-- is there a motion? OK. We've got the July
26 Board meeting agenda that has been presented.
And I think what we need to do is amend that-- there's another one. We approve the original one and then
amend it? Ms. Snyder. We've got to include the special Board meeting as well. So any suggestions on
how we should approach this?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I think you can just make the motion, as call for a motion to approve with the
addition of the special Board meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So I need a motion to approve the July 26 agenda with the addition of the special
Board meeting that incorporates the missed or canceled operations and safety committee meeting items
on that agenda and with the other change of removing the amended delegations from the consent
agenda. Is there a motion to approve that?
TROY WHITMORE: I'll make the motion to proceed.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Guissinger, your hand is raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'll second it. And then did we get the agenda for the special Board meeting?
VINCE BUZEK: I do not believe the agenda for the special Board meeting was included. My
understanding is it's the same as the agenda for the Operations and Safety Committee meeting from a
week ago or two weeks ago. Is that correct, anybody?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hadn't looked at that. Are we approving that agenda?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. That's part of the motion here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, maybe I shouldn't have seconded it. I hadn't looked at that.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can send it out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Do you still-- are you going to second that motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I should look at it.

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Mr. Chairman. Yeah. If I may, and not as a member of the committee.
And I ask the committee's indulgence for speaking on this. But the point is, it's just a question of setting
forth the agenda. It's not an approval of any of the motions.
VINCE BUZEK: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: And the motions would be submitted under the consent agenda. They would come
forward as recommended actions. But in that sense, if you will, it's recommended by staff. And it's simply
for the Board then to consider it without benefit of an Operations and Safety Committee meeting having
been conducted first. So I think your second, Director Guissinger, Madam First Vice Chair, would not be,
in any way, shape or form, constitute an approval of any item proposed, but rather simply that it come
forward to the Board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right, I understand that. I'm sorry. Thank you. I understand that, but I guess, if I'm
approving the agenda, I feel like I should look at it. And that's what I haven't seen. So-VINCE BUZEK: I'll take that as withdraw of your second. So I'll need a second to the motion before we
have discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Second Vice Chair Catlin. And do you have something further to add?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do. I have a question, actually. That particular agenda was for the committee. And that
was chaired by Director Rosenthal. And now it's going to be a special Board meeting. So I assume that
the assignments or that Director Buzek will run that meeting. OK, I just wanted to-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, it's no longer a committee meeting. It's not part of the Board meeting. So yeah,
we'll run that. And all of those items, because they didn't come through-- as Tisdale indicated, they didn't
come through a committee-- they will be recommended actions with full discussion and presentation.
And I believe the-- is the re-imagine on that? Yeah. So we'll have a whole presentation just like the
committee with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: And the service changes. But I just wanted to make sure that it was clear to the
committee Chair that it will be run as a Board meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Yeah, I'll make sure to reach out to Director Rosenthal. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Anything further? There's a motion and a second to approve the July 26 Board meeting
agenda as amended. Are there any no votes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess-- this is both agendas, right?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I still haven't seen it.

VINCE BUZEK: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess you could put me down as a no vote, and everybody else can vote yes, and
it won't matter. I just haven't seen it.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Parish, do you have a comment?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I just wanted to add that the Executive Committee has traditionally never approved
special Board meeting agendas. They have always just been brought forward. They've never been
approved, at least since I've been here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: How do those come forward?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, can anybody give us some of that background?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Sorry. We create the agendas and push them forward based on agency business
and agency need.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, but this is coming-- this was once upon a time a formal agenda of one of our
standing committees. So I think we need to approve this one. But thanks for that info. I appreciate that.
So we're going to go ahead with the motion as constituted. Anybody else? Anybody? So I'm going to call
the roll. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Buzek, yes. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so that moves forward 4-1. So I appreciate your concern, and we need to see that
agenda. Cool. All right, discussion items. We're going to move on to discussion items. We have a couple
on the agenda. And the first is the Government Relations report. And GM CEO Johnson, do you have a
report or designee for the report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Michael Davies, our Government Relations
Officer will present the report for this month. So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Davies.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Davies, go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. We just have a brief report that will supplement the written Government Relations report
starting at the federal level.

As written in the report, the House of Representatives at the time had passed the 2023, fiscal year 2023
appropriations process through the committee. And now, as of yesterday, the update is that the full House
of Representatives has passed the fiscal year '23 appropriations bill.
The issue is that the Senate has not begun any work on that. And there's been no negotiations and
agreement on a top-of-line funding figure. So really, this is kind of the action of the house, working on
their own without agreement on the Senate.
And so you really need agreement with the Senate to be able to coordinate both bills. So we'll be
watching that closely as the end of the fiscal year comes up on September 30, 2022.
And then lastly, at the federal level with regard to the credit risk premium return, USDOT staff has
indicated that it should be any day now that that funding will be available to RTD to draw down from our
FTA account. And so we are also watching that process closely and working well with the USDOT staff on
these final steps.
At the state level, the Colorado Energy Office grant for our Zero Fare for Better Air, that grant application
was accepted by the Colorado Energy Office. And staff now is working on the inter-governmental
agreements and contract agreements to be able to be reimbursed.
The only change I have is that the intent to award originally communicated from the Energy Office was
$8,650,000. And in the statement of work that RTD staff is working on, that amount was increased by
30,000. So it'd be $8,680,000 is the intent to award amount at this time.
And then at the local level, as indicated in the written report, most of our efforts over this last month, we're
working with the county clerks and gaining feedback on the topic of another item before Board
consideration, which is the offering zero-fare transit services during and around the 2022 general election.
And at the meetings that we held and communication we had with the county clerks, as well as the
Secretary of State's Office, provide the feedback for that Board item. So with that, that concludes my
report. I'm happy to answer any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that report. Any questions for Mr. Davies? There she is, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I understand any definitive report would be premature. But it may be of interest
to the Executive Committee if there has been outreach to an additional federal agency, specifically the
Department of Health and Human Services.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Oh, yes. Oh, I see General Manager Johnson has raised her hand if she wants to
address that.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes, thank you very kindly, and thank you for the question, Director Sloan. It was
my intent to give a full-fledged report to the entire Board so they would be privy to the information. I am
willing to provide a snippet at this point in time if that is your preference.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so in working in tandem with Director Sloan, she had a meeting and put me in
contact with the region eight administrator of Health and Human Services. The genesis for that contact
was predicated upon the article that was featured in The Washington Post as that article profiled a day in
the life of one of our operators on the 15 limited route.
With that as a backdrop, thoroughly recognizing there is a clear cut nexus between public transportation
and health impacts collectively, a meeting was arranged via my office with representatives from Health
and Human Services. And there were conversations that ensued. The Regional Director from Health and
Human Services put forward some suggestions.
A lot of those suggestions are things that RTD is currently working on in relationship of looking at societal
issues collectively, opioid usage and things of the like. I, in turn, as well reached out to our FTA
administrator from region eight whom I collaborate with on a regular basis and put forward that I think
there needed to be a nexus between FTA and Health and Human Services, recognizing that oftentimes
when there's an opportunity to partner, any type of opportunities for grants and things of the like, it really
showcases the collaborative spirit when you have a myriad of different agencies.
Where we left it, quite naturally, is working in tandem with Health and Human Services from a federal
level, or a national level I should qualify it as, to bring forward awareness as relates to these issues that
aren't indicative or not, I should say, indigenous to the metropolitan area of Denver. And so the next steps
is basically leveraging our contacts with FTA and HSS to have a conversation with metro mayors.
Oftentimes, what I have seen and our regional administrator from Health and Human Services recognize
is that this is not an issue that is solely impacting the metropolitan area, and wanted to ensure that
individuals knew collectively that this is not an issue that totally resonates or rests with RTD to solve. And
we're looking at that collaborative approach to help bring forth the conversation and also make it more
apparent at the state level since there has been a large uptick in opioid usage throughout the state of
Colorado. Excuse me.
So this is my state, Colorado. So with that, I will provide additional information on Tuesday night. Director
Sloan, if there's any questions you may have or any other member assembled, I am more than happy to
address those. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much for that detail. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Buzek. And actually, thank you, Mr. Johnson, for that update. And I
applaud you for, and Director Sloan, for those efforts. My brief request is of Michael Davies and GM CEO
Johnson that when we finally get that credit risk premium in our FTA account to drive down, would you
please send us a message?
And I will put you on Zoom and do a cartwheel because that's been a part of my life for well over a
decade now. So I really look forward to hearing that. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if you could indulge me.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, sure, but just remember, everybody, you heard it here first. Peggy Catlin is doing a
cartwheel on Zoom. Go ahead, Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, quite naturally, you will hear. There's a myriad of people who have asked to be
apprised. And quite naturally, you, as the policy body, and my bosses will be the first to be aware once I
get that confirmation through our Trams account. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It's been such a long time coming. And Mr. Davies and Ms. Johnson, I
appreciate your efforts and our federal lobbyists and our delegation, quite frankly, for working on our
behalf.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, great work. It's been a long time coming, so good deal. Any other-- hang on. So
any other questions for Mr. Davies. We're still on the Government Relations report.
No? Good deal. Thanks, Mr. Davies. Thanks for that report, as always. Next we have informal Director
meetings next steps. First Vice Chair Guissinger and Secretary Sloan, do you have any updates you'd
like to share with the Executive Committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Marjorie's done such a great job leading this. I'm going to ask her to-- she was
hoping I would do it.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I was going to defer to you. But there are next steps coming. This has been a long
process in trying to make a more effective, efficient way for Directors to deal with issues that affect
smaller groups within the Board.
And Director Guissinger is one. Barbara, Tai-Shrae, Director Dishell, General Counsel Snyder Can all
attest to a group effort on this. But it's my understanding, and Barbara, you're the specifics on this.
But this proposal will be ready for our September meeting for the Executive Committee meeting. And then
if it goes through the Executive Committee, on to the full Board meeting. If anyone who's participated in
this process has anything to add, I would appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you so much. Thanks for your work. And first, Director Guissinger for your
work as well, and staff as well. Anybody have anything they'd like to discuss or add to this? First Vice
Chair Guissinger, do you have anything you want to add?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. I join Director Sloan, and largely thanking her. She's done a lot of work on
this. And also, as she said, Tai-Shrae and Ms. Snyder and Barbara and all have been very helpful.
I think this is a-- I think it's a good piece to let Directors meet the requirements of the Open Meetings Law
and still get together to move issues forward to the Board. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Good work, everybody. No other questions or comments on that one? We're going
to move on to the timeline and recruitment process for Board Office Executive Manager.
So as you all know, Ms. McManus will be leaving us in the approaching future. And the question is, how
do we go about recruiting for that position? I've had discussions with some of you on the Executive
Committee.

I've had discussions with our General Manager and with our General Counsel. My preference is to have
this recruitment process for this position handled internally. I believe we have the scope and the
bandwidth to handle this.
And I can't, in good conscience, say that we should incur funds for hiring an outside firm to do this. And I
guess I'd want some discussion comments from the other members of the Executive Committee on this.
I'll start with Director Whitmore. I'm just going to call on you so you don't have to raise your hand.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I concur with-- at least at this point. Mr. Chair, I concur with your viewpoint. I
think we should proceed in that manner at least for now and see where it leads us to. Short and to the
point.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and just to be clear, I'm not taking any formal action here. I'm just seeking input
and comments. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree. I think that I raised the question of bandwidth when we brought this
up earlier. And it sounds like we do have in-house capacity to do this. And it's my feeling that we need to
get started on this sooner than later.
And to take the time to hire an outside consultant would just prolong the activity. So I'm in support of your
suggestion as well.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Guissinger, I see you're unmuted. Why don't you talk?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I agree. I agree with those comments. Let's move it forward. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I am also in agreement and am willing to offer up some time in addition to the
Amazon gift cards that you asked for this morning. I'm sorry you were in such a bad position. But it
happens to so many people, we need Amazon gift cards.
I would offer up my time because I think it's essential that we need to review the job description and
requirements. HR will be so effective in doing that. But I think it would be helpful to have Board input in
the first instance.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Thanks for those comments. And just for a point of clarification, what Director Sloan
is referring to is apparently someone is claiming to be me and asking for Amazon gift cards or bail money
or something like that.
So it's not me, but if you want to send me bail money in Amazon gift cards, please just hand-deliver them.
That'd be fine. Good. So I think we're moving forward on the recruitment timeline process, and we'll keep
that moving.
I don't think there's anything else on the agenda. Any other matters to come before the Executive
Committee? First Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a question about the SOP that's coming to the Board meeting and maybe
just an initial conversation now. I guess it's a question for Ms. Johnson. Just talking to constituents and
looking at some of what-- I know some of what's going on.

There are a lot of pieces, route, service that are in discussion. The 128 is not coming back, but they're
looking at a FlexRide. The FF4 is concerned that it's not bidirectional.
And my understanding with staff is that it has to be to make the inner lining work. The 122X I think has a
similar discussion ongoing. And I'm just trying to figure out how those fit with the SOP if they're not listed
on the SOP, which gets me back to the question of, what's the effect of the SOP? Are we still telling our
service planners to move forward on some of these things?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So just for everybody's clarification, I want to start with a qualifier recognizing that the
System Optimization Plan is a branded name that we have at RTD for our comprehensive operations
analysis.
We've done an analysis of our routes and rail lines. This is merely a plan to help provide guidance as we
go forward. You, as a body, adopted guiding principles back in April of 2021 in which there are six that
enable us to make informed decisions as it relates to what might be optimal in reference to transit service
delivery. Recognizing that COAs are customarily done at other transit agencies every five to seven years,
this is a guiding tool, for all intents and purposes, and could not quite naturally encompass every single
facet of what we have going forward.
So with that as a backdrop, First Vice Chair Guissinger, when we talk about things that are ongoing,
looking at system optimization, how we're going to leverage that for our service delivery perspective, we
will take into consideration, looking through the lens of equity, accessibility, and looking at the cost as we
want to ensure that we're optimizing our revenue service hours going forward, those decisions will be
made collective to that. And quite naturally, when we do service restoration, it comes back to this body
with the information going forward relative to you all making a decision about adopting any type of service
modifications.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So they just come forward to us as part of a service, a regular service run, and it
might have some-- it would presumably, mostly have service, you know, routes that are in the SOP, but it
might include others that are coming to us for changes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's exactly so. And what I will say-- I'm going to step outside of myself for a
minute. First Vice Chair Guissinger and I had an opportunity to have a discussion. And I did provide for
her my viewpoint, being in this industry for 30 years, relative to what COAs are intended to do.
If, in fact, we were doing our COAs with regular cadence, every five to seven years, there was a question
about the plan for 2050, recognizing that in 2027, we should be looking at this again. That would take us
basically to 2032, and then looking at 2037 as we go forward because there's going to be change in land
use.
There could be different developments that's happening. And we, as a provider of mobility options, need
to ensure that we are doing an analysis to determine where, in fact, we need to provide mobility options.
So I say that because I-- is she smiling at me?

This preceded me. And what I'm trying to say is that there is an opportunity. And if there was some kind of
continuity with this, it wouldn't seem as arduous. But this is par for the course. And so just want you all to
know that this is just an analysis. It's a plan.
And we can plan and plan and plan. But there's always going to be other factors. But it helps guide us
going forward. So thank you very much, First Chair Guissinger, for the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thank you for the answer. That makes sense to me. I may ask it again in the
Board meeting just so everybody can hear. And the way, and Ms. Johnson and I had this conversation
also.
The reason that question is coming up about this is a five-year plan is that in our study session on the
mobility plan for the future, it said if we don't get any new money, the SOP will govern until 2050. And I
said, what's that about?
So I guess I still would like to see that language out of the mobility plan for the future. And that raises the
question for me too that, what's our role with the mobility plan for the future?
And we talked about that. You said, well, I don't know if you want to approve it and make it a set plan. But
maybe there is-- you mentioned maybe there's a resolution or something. I sure would like to see it come
back to us because we didn't-- we got the study session before we got the mobility plan.
There's things in there that I think we should consider, like the partnership criteria and some things like
that. So I'm just putting that out there as, maybe we discuss that at the Board meeting. I think you and I
were kind of on the same page, you know, that it could come back in some form. So thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, First Chair Guissinger, for the clarification. I do
want to state what I shared was that it's not good practice to adopt a plan for 25 years, saying this is what
we're going to do.
What I had shared with First Chair Guissinger going forward, that it could be in the form of a resolution if
this Board is so inclined, where you, you know, support the concept going forward, recognizing you have
the incremental steps. And I would agree with First Chair Guissinger. And that's what prompted the
conversation that there's no way, shape, or form that we would sit idle and say we did a study in 2022
when we're using that as a model to carry us in 2050 because there should be analyses that take place
going forward.
So yes, First Chair Guissinger did have conversations with the team relative to that matter that was
presented by the consultant team. And that is not necessarily reflective of the intent of the mobility plan
for the future. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that input and those comments. And yeah, I remember in 2019, at the
first, very first Board retreat that we had, I was scratching my head and wondering, why don't we have
aspirational goals? I mean, we're always like, looking at our feet and saying, oh, we've got to do this today
and not looking at it tomorrow.

But I think that mobility plan for the future really gives us the ability to think about that stuff. So it's pretty
cool. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to inform this group that we had our kickoff meeting for
the internal audit function with Reuben Brown. And I think we had a really good discussion. And they
were very open about presenting us with options for a committee structure, Audit Committee structure
going forward and were willing to be really flexible.
And I was very pleased with how that discussion went. I would like to note that in addition to Directors
Dishell and Davidson and myself, Director Guissinger participated. And I appreciated her attendance. But
that was the only other Board member that did-- was able to attend.
That being said, even though we're taking a pause for August meetings, we have some fairly significant
milestones that we need to meet within the next eight weeks in establishing the Audit Committee. And so
chances are we will be meeting, with all apologies to staff, through the month of August.
And we have asked the consultant to put together a timeline and kind of a workplan so that we have a
clear scope of what's going to be discussed at each of those meetings. So those will be coming out here
in the next few days. We will be meeting this next Monday. Anyone who's interested in attending.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Second Vice Chair Catlin, and thanks for your work on that committee. First Vice
Chair Guissinger, your hand's still up. Do you have anything more?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize.
VINCE BUZEK: No problem. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Just for the sake of the record, with all due respect to Director
Catlin, I was actually in that Audit Committee meeting as well because I mentioned the fact that when
they mentioned external members of the committee, I wanted to know if the various agencies, entities, or
companies that were being considered for external membership on our Audit Committee also had
external members on their own internal audit committees. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and I stand corrected. And I do apologize, but I didn't see your shining face.
You were on the phone. So that's why I forgot.
VINCE BUZEK: Good deal Thanks for that. Any other matters to come before the committee? So just a
reminder, August is kind of a regrouping month for Board staff, everybody, so there's not a lot happening.
So keep that in mind. Staff is going to be busy doing their regrouping, as we will. So I understand the
Audit Committee may need to be meeting. Hopefully we can trim that down a little. But seeing no other
discussion, I will call this meeting adjourned at 1:13 PM. Thanks, everybody for being here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Bye-bye.

