Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 7,
2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

December 6, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
December 7, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker.
Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shawn Albert, Susan Altes, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke,
Jeff Cluphf, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John Dawson, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin
Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus,
Doug MacLeod, Robert Medina, Anthony Menendez, Brian Middleton,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer,
Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland
Vaughn, Del Walker and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Steve Cook - DRCOG,
Tyler Crowe – Alameda Station LLC, Chuck Easterling – DTP, Joni
Goheen – Virtegic Group, Lloyd H. – Alameda Station LLC., Sherman
Hamilton, Virtegic Group, Bob Murphy – MMC, Ken Schmidt – Alameda
Station LLC, Bob Wilson, and Tom Wootten – Alameda Station LLC.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:58 p.m. and
noted that Director McMullen left early because he was not feeling well.

Recommended Action
 Extension of Street Improvement Contract with Manion Construction
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the third and final year of a threeyear option contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 7,
2011
Page 2 of 5

with Manion Construction, Inc. for $334,834.00. Funding for this contract amendment
is provided in the 2012 Adopted Capital Budget in the Street Improvements and Bus
Shelters projects.
Cory Granrud indicated that this is our third option year of a three year contract with an
SBE contractor that has done very good work for us for the past two years. This year
we’ve accomplished 55 site improvements across the district.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
December 20, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:



The Motion passed unanimously. Director
McMullen was absent from this vote.

Parking Easement – 6,206 sq. ft. of land below the Light rail Bridge structure
and appurtenances in the West Corridor at West 6th Avenue, approximately 685
feet west of Quail Street, in Lakewood, adjacent to the former Kacey Fine
Furniture

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to grant a 6,206 sq. ft. parking easement for customer and employee
parking below the light rail bridge structure and appurtenances on the West Corridor
at West 6th Avenue, approximately 685 feet west of Quail Street, in Lakewood,
Colorado to KMH Investments, LLC. RTD would receive $42,000.00 as
consideration for the easement.
Susan Altes noted that the former Kacey Fine Furniture was sold to KMH
Investments LLC and they are trying to bring this property on the west corridor back
to producing both jobs and taxes. Kacey Fine Furniture had encroached on RTD’s
right of way for many years. We have negotiated some fairly severe restrictions on
this easement. The piers have to be protected by either jersey barriers or bollards
three feet all the way around. There will not be overnight parking, commercial truck
parking, or storage.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know what kind of enforcement access we have
available to us for easement violations.
Susan Altes noted that any violation would be brought to their attention and
corrected and ultimately, the easement could be extinguished if the terms are not
met.
Director Tobiassen asked if the $42,000 was a onetime fee. Susan Altes indicated

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 7,
2011
Page 3 of 5

that was correct.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the December
20, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:



The Motion passed unanimously. Director
McMullen was absent from this vote.

Termination of Lease Agreement between Fiddler’s Business Improvement
District and the Regional Transportation District

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to terminate the Lease between the Fiddler's Business Improvement
District and RTD for additional public parking spaces for RTD transit customers in
the vicinity of the RTD Arapahoe Light Rail Station on the west side of I-25.
Susan Altes explained that as we were building T-REX there was a great concern
regarding sufficient parking. In an effort to ensure sufficient parking there was a
negotiation between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District (FBID) for 1,000
parking spaces. The lease was for 75 years and RTD paid $1,680,000 from
September 30, 2002 through August 30, 2006. In 2007, RTD amended the lease
to reduce the number of spaces and received a reimbursement of $1,888,484.94
which included consideration for the spaces released and 5% interest per annum
compounded annually from the date of each RTD payment. To terminate this
agreement, FBID will pay RTD $1,000,000 by December 31, 2013 or the date on
which the City of Greenwood Village issues a building permit for construction on
Lot 1, Greenwood Plaza South Filing No. 12.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
December 20, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously. Director
McMullen was absent from this vote.

II. Update
 Mall Paver Pilot Program
Jeff Cluphf conveyed that RTD had received an $800,000 grant from DRCOG for
this pilot program which RTD matched. The test block was from Tremont Pl. to

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 7,
2011
Page 4 of 5

Court Pl. since this block had the most problems. Test area problems were
deterioration, trip hazards, slipping and damage to buses. The bid scope included
survey, setting bed, joints, operating life, friction enhancement and color vibrancy.
Testing and monitoring is currently underway and we will prepare reports and
develop lessons learned for future applications at the end of the pilot program.
Director Bagley indicated this is a critical component of what we are trying to do
and asked if this will be presented to the Downtown Denver Partnership. Jeff
Cluphf noted that an abbreviated version was provided, but we can make
arrangements to provide the full presentation.
Director James also asked that this be provided to the 16th Street Plan Steering
Committee.
Director Daly asked how long the pilot program is for. Jeff Cluphf indicated that this
is a two year test period.
 Alameda Station, LLC
General Manager Washington explained that some of the Board members are aware
of the Alameda Station and surrounding property. In 2003 the Board of Directors
authorized the General Manager to issue an RFP for the sale and development of
that subject property around Alameda Station. In May of 2006 the Board authorized
the General Manager to negotiate and execute the documents to award a contract
for sale and development of that area, 350 Santa Fe Avenue, the former RTD Bus
Barn Facility. Since May of 2006 the current developer has been there trying to
develop that property into TOD. Previous Board actions between 2006 to 2011
resulted in an extension until June 30th 2011 to allow Alameda Station LLC to
secure project financing to develop that property. There was a request for another
extension to December 31st 2011. In June, staff came with a recommendation to
extend the contract to the end of December and proposed very definitive milestones
that the developer had to meet in order for the district to continue the contract. One
of the milestone dates was November 29th and we have reviewed the entire
contents of the submitted packet and we believe that the submission does not meet
the milestones that were previously laid out. There were several deficiencies
including lack of final site plan, final plan of finance, and construction budget which
were significant milestones that were not met. This contract will be allowed to
expire on December 31st 2011.
Director James noted that this property is in his district and is disappointed to see
that this is the direction this property is going, but hopefully the highest and best
use for this property can still be realized.
III. Other Matters
Director Bagley added that he did his Telephone Town Hall last week and thought it
was a fantastic experience and would like to see it happen again in February.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 7,
2011
Page 5 of 5

IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for January
17, 2012
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:45 p.m.

