2024-02-27
Board Meeting
(Part 1)

ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening. I will now call the Tuesday, February 27 RTD Board meeting to order.
We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain
muted, if you are joining virtually, unless you are recognized to speak. For those of you that have joined
us in person, thank you very much for joining us.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for these monthly gatherings, please note that our
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are still being held remotely via Zoom and are audio
and video recorded. All meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted
as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You may visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing communication access realtime translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided.
With that, we are going to move to our first agenda item this evening. It is a very exciting one. This is the
installation and swearing in of a new Board member. Our newly appointed Board member, Mr. Jaime
Lewis, will represent District A. I am pleased to welcome the Honorable Judge Matthew Grove, who will
once again officiate for us and will administer the oath of office for incoming Director Lewis.
Judge Grove has served as a law clerk to Colorado Supreme Court Justice Nathan Coates, was the
Assistant Attorney General for the Colorado Department of Law Appellate Division, worked as an
associate at Bjork Lynlee Little PC, was the Assistant Attorney General for the YAP state, Federated
States of Micronesia, was an Assistant Solicitor General and Senior Assistant Attorney General for the
Colorado Department of Law State Services Selection, and is currently a judge on the Colorado Court of
Appeals.
At this time, I would ask for Mr. Lewis and Judge Grove to move to the podium-- looks like they have
done that-- for the swearing in. And with that, I will now turn over the proceedings to Judge Grove. Please
proceed when you are ready, sir.
Thank you, Judge Grove. A huge congratulations to now Director Jaime Lewis. At this time, we're going to
take a brief moment. Let's take two minutes for just some photographs. Before we do that, I just again
would like to ask for another round of applause for Director Lewis. We'd like to very, very much thank you
for your willingness to serve in this role. So a round of applause followed by a two-minute break.
All right. If we could find our seats, we'll come back to order.
All right. We'll go ahead and continue. Thank you, Director Lewis, for joining us. We congratulate you on
your appointment and unanimous confirmation by the Denver City Council. Thank you for being willing to
serve in this capacity.

All right. I just would like to make one brief note before we move on with the agenda for Directors. Just
having some technical difficulties. We're going to do this old school. So as opposed to using the consoles
here throughout the evening, when you have questions or matters for discussion, please raise your
physical hand, or virtual hand for those that are joining us via Zoom, and I'll look around. We'll do hands
that way this evening.
With that, we will move on to the Pledge of Allegiance. And Director Whitmore, if you could please lead us
in the Pledge.
Thank you. And at this time, I'll now hand the floor to Second Vice Chair Guissinger. If you would please
read the land acknowledgment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and
trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. I will now call for the roll. Treasurer
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We understand you are in transit-- thank you for that-- to us. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Erik Davidson. I am also here. Seeing 15 Directors present and 0 absent,
we have a quorum.
There are no retiree awards for this evening. First quarter retiree awards will be announced at the March
Board of Directors meeting.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address this Board. As
we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who
are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name
is called. If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium
when I call for any additional speakers.
For those who are attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not done so, please raise your virtual
hand, or you may press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you
are dialed in via phone, please press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, your comments may be submitted to the Board in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference material for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not be offering any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at the same

email I just listed, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Speakers should please begin their remarks by stating
their names and they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments.
At this time, I'd like to turn it over to our Board Office Executive Manager and ask if anyone has signed up
to speak.
JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There is a
sheet there that I provided to First Vice Chair Catlin with the names of the individuals who have signed up
for public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I will go ahead and call our speakers up. I
understand we are joined first by Sarah Lee. If Sarah Lee could please come up, state your name, and
have three minutes.
SARAH LEE: This is the podium?
JACK KROLL: This is the podium and-SARAH LEE: This is the podium. OK. Hi. My name is Sarah Lee. I identify as a person with a vision
impairment and I'm autistic, so I have a couple of disabilities. I'm a resident of District I and I wanted to
advocate tonight for including multiple stop trips on Access-on-Demand.
I really love and appreciate these last couple of years of being able to use Access-on-Demand services.
They help me get places I need to go quickly and without having to schedule a trip. It makes trips
affordable and accessible and gives options for emergency trips.
Before I knew that making stops on Uber was not allowed for Access-on-Demand, I found that using Uber
on demand for making quick stops to pick up fellow disabled friends on the way somewhere, or as a trip
to the post office and back home to pick up my prescriptions or to drop off my siblings at school, have
really increased my confidence and independence in my life. This allows me spontaneity that fixed route
bus users already have.
I don't mind if they needed to count as two trips and I know that there are other things that Uber offers
that Lyft can't, such as the safety pin feature. But I think that keeping this option available would be
greatly helpful for times when it is cold outside, there are fewer available drivers, or passengers are short
on time. It also happens to be cheaper for RTD to subsidize.
Thank you for continually letting us know about the changes being made to Access-on-Demand and
continually making it available to us. We love this option as it increases our ability to contribute to our
community and participate in spontaneous activities without feeling limited. Thank you so much for your
time and for allowing me the opportunity to speak to you tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Lee, for your comments. Very much appreciated. Our next speaker at
this time will be Emily Christiansen.
EMILY CHRISTIANSEN: All right. Sorry, I am also visually impaired. It seems there are a lot of us here
tonight. My name is Emily Christensen. I live in Aurora at the corner of Hampden and Tower. And I am
here on behalf of both myself and several of my coworkers to request two changes to the bus routes in
southeastern Denver and the Aurora area to improve commuting ability to the Southlands Mall.

Right now there are, I believe, over 200 people who work in the offices upstairs in Southlands Mall from
the company I work for alone. And many of us have expressed a willingness to use the bus to commute
as opposed to dealing with the traffic on Smoky Hill Road if it had half hour headways during peak hours,
so 6:00 AM to 9:00 AM and around 3:00 PM to 6:00 PM. As it stands right now, there are a large number
of us who are unable to use the bus to commute and have to choose other options, simply because if you
miss the bus once, you have no way to get home.
My other suggestion for future service changes is that I live off of the 139 bus route, which only operates
from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM. I am visually impaired and unable to drive, which means that as of right now, if
one person in my life were to get into a car crash, I would no longer be able to work. I don't want to be
forced to rely on government subsidy to survive. I want to work. I want to contribute to my community. So
I I'm asking that the 139 routes operating hours be expanded from 5:00 AM to 11:00 PM on weekdays to
allow for that commute for me and others, and to improve the ability for those of us who work in the
Southlands Mall to communicate to the greater Aurora area.
Thank you very much for your time and have a good night.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Christiansen. Appreciate it. Our next speaker is Nate Trela.
NATE TRELA: Yeah, I'm Nate. I live in Englewood, in the heart of the DTC, and I wanted to speak about
the Access-on-Demand issue as well. I'm representing myself, but I'm also a board member of the Blind
Parents Division of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. And the announcement late last year
to eliminate the possibility of multiple stops on trips on Uber on Access-on-Demand has caused a great
deal of consternation amongst our members and among other blind people that I know that regularly use
the service.
My understanding is that this was not necessarily intended to be a feature that was available to begin
with. But after two years of offering it, it has affected decisions many people have made about where to
live, how to commute, whether their children can participate in activities, whether they can get their
children to daycare. Unless there is something about the contract I'm not aware of, if RTD is just paying
the same as the fare would be out of pocket for me, turning what would be a minimum fare round trip into
two minimum fare trips makes absolutely zero sense.
Financially for RTD, it turns $400 of commuting expenses for me to take my daughter to preschool before
I go back home and log in for work to $600 for RTD, and then another 200 bucks out of my pocket. It's an
inconvenience for many people in terms of time, especially in January, waiting 15 minutes in the subzero
temperatures for connections to other rides to make the round trips from dropping off a little one at
school.
And so unless there is a financial component of the contract that doesn't involve paying the same rate as
the fare that's charged, it's hard to wrap my head around how this could possibly be advantageous for
RTD. I don't know if there's been any analysis done behind the decision not to include that. I don't know if
there has been any discussion about trying to find a way to provide this option going forward. But it's
something that severely has impacted a lot of paratransit users and I'm hoping it's something that RTD
can change for the better going forward. Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Trela, for your remarks. I'd now like to go to our next speaker, who is
Joe Kovach.
JACK KROLL: Just right here, Joe, Mr. Kovach. Right here. You're at the podium and the microphone is-JOE KOVACH: Do I have to press anything?
JACK KROLL: Nope.
JOE KOVACH: OK.
JACK KROLL: You might just lean forward a little bit-JOE KOVACH: Oh, OK.
JACK KROLL: Just speaking into the microphone.
JOE KOVACH: There we go. Yeah, my name is Joe Kovach. I'm here representing myself. I'm live in the
Arapahoe County Centennial area. And I'm here to speak about the multiple stops for RTD.
Yeah. You guys, this is really kind of your guys' fault when you negotiated the contract at first with Uber,
not addressing this. This should have been addressed at that time. And nothing was said when the
program was started about making multiple stops with Uber. It was when you included Lyft in the service.
You said Lyft, you're not allowed to make multiple stops, which you did not say that with Uber.
And I want to say, even in Lyft, even though we're not allowed to make multiple stops, the button is still
there because we're using the regular app. But the old Access-a-Cab program, you guys had a limit of
four trips per day. Well, that adds up to 120 trips a month. And whereas on the Access-on-Demand
program, we're only allowed to do 60 a month. So right there, you've cut our access to the community.
And I think I'm going to leave it there. Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kovach, for your remarks as well. Moving on to our next speaker, we
have Jacob Belgrad.
JACOB BELGRAD: Hello. My name is Jacob Belgrad and I'd first like to thank you guys all for having me
today. The reason I'm here is to first off introduce myself and my organization. So as I mentioned, my
name is Jacob, but I am a transportation advocate with Green Latinos.
Green Latinos is a national environmental organization. We're a nonprofit focused on community
environmental solutions, conservation, and environmental justice. Sorry. I was recently put on as a
transportation advocate. My advocate is primarily focused on increasing accessibility, usability, and
improvement of our existing transportation systems, as well as the creation and funding of increased
multi-modal transportation options.

This is all to decrease VMT, vehicle miles traveled. And the underlying focus in this all is to help those
that have been historically underserved. It's no secret that those living in historically underserved
communities have had a more difficult time getting adequate transit. No one should have difficulty based
on where they live. I'm here to keep pushing for the most equitable system with equitable representation.
At Green Latinos, we are conveners. We convene decision makers with community, community with
decision makers, larger entities with smaller entities and anything in between. So I just want to let you all
know that we are here, Green Latinos, to support with you all when it comes to community outreach, with
meeting different entities, agencies, and whatnot. We're here to serve us.
I think the vision of RTD is in the right place. And to keep moving forward, we need community that is
engaged and a governing body that is also receptive. I'm excited for what's to come, and there's a lot of
exciting things, such as fare free youth, potentially-- which I do support, and I urge you guys to support as
well, SB-32-- Bus Rapid Transit, Front Range Rail, and a lot of the other plans you have.
So it is a pleasure to meet you all and I look forward to working with you guys. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Belgrad, for your comments. Our next speaker is Lance Longenbohn.
All right. Nope. All right.
With that, we'll move on to our next speaker, which is Richard Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. I'm Richard Bamber, your friendly rail civil engineer. I
wore this hard hat actually for five years on the FasTracks P3, so I've got the stickers.
Tonight you're going to get a presentation from RTD staff about the downtown rail reconstruction project.
You're going to be told it is a unique project, first time the agency has ever done something like this. It's
quite an undertaking. It could be potentially very disruptive, OK.
But a couple of slides later, staff are going to say they don't need Board authority because this is repair
and maintenance. That comes from a delegation of authority that this Board, as you know, approved in
2022. Now while Section B2 does say there is a delegation of authority, it also stipulates it has to be
routine procurement. So a project that is the first time we've ever done, OK, is going to be a unique thing
or routine procurement. You can't have both, OK?
This project is much more than just resetting a few E-clips. The rail-- this is a cross section-- you can't just
resurface it. It's too far gone. Parts of this, the bottom flange, has gone, corroded away. You can't repair
or maintain that. The rail has to be replaced, renewed, reconstructed.
So the other thing with this project as well is you having-- there is an RFP, request for proposal. There are
bids. Staff have been making issued for bid drawings. They will make issued for construction drawings.
You are hiring a program support consultant to help you. This is anything but routine procurement for just
some simple repairs and maintenance.
So what I appeal is to this entire room, let's avoid a collective failure of common sense tonight. This
project, we all know it has to happen. I think we all support it, OK. But it does need the approvals and
oversight that are appropriate for $150 million of our taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.

[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Bamber. Now, James Flattum, please.
JAMES FLATTUM: Good evening, everyone. My name is James Flattum. I'm with Greater Denver
Transit. My comments tonight are mainly going to be questions and points of clarification around RTD's
service planning and scheduling process.
So we are on the eve, a couple of months of perhaps the most disruptive environment we've ever seen
with downtown transit since the light rail network was originally constructed in the early 1990s. We have
the L line that's being discussed to be removed from service, suspended for several months. We have the
D and the H line that is being removed and suspended as well-- or rather, they are being diverted to
Union Station. Excuse me.
We are also seeing kind of as well the part two of the coping panels project, which disrupted service
substantially last summer. And third and finally, we continue to see this mall reconstruction project, which
while not being operatively an RTD project contributes to the downtown environment that is heavily
disrupted.
So what appears to have been proposed for service remediation, for alternatives is the resumption of the
RTD Free Metro Ride bus, which has been out of service for four years but duplicates other North-South
routes in downtown, five others that reflect RTD's highest frequency zone of operations. So we have five
buses that operate between Union Station and Civic Center. And to cope with a project that suspended
service on an East-West light rail service, we are adding North-South service that is already served by
five other buses.
So we're mystified by this, and we really want to have a better understanding of what is being considered
when a service suspension happens to make sure that riders continue to be able to access needed
journeys and be able to do these journeys on transit. And additionally, it would be really helpful to get
some clarification when these suspensions happen around some of the thinking with, as well, East-West
service in downtown during this period is going to be particularly disrupted, perhaps most disrupted of
anywhere else in the network, despite the coping panels we saw last summer.
What is RTD planning to do to make sure that people who live in neighborhoods like Five Points, adjacent
to Colfax to make sure that people continue to use the service this summer? Thank you very much. That
concludes my comments. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Flattum. Our next speaker will be Emma Griffin.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hi. Thank you for having me tonight. I'm also with Greater Denver Transit. And thank
you to the Board for listening to public comment.
I also wanted to echo what James was saying, and I wanted to ask how RTD will properly account for the
shutdown of the entire L Line, consisting of six rail stations, over the summer. The L Line serves one of
the densest areas of the Denver Metro area and is an essential component of reliable and efficient
downtown mobility. While there is a substitution provided via the 43 and the 38, the L Line has seen

numerous shutdowns over the past few years and continues to be one of the first cut, last reimplemented
services when it comes to the light rail.
This is problematic for several reasons. For example, the 38 switches to hourly after 9:00 PM, whereas
the L Line runs every half hour into the evening, even on weekends, until nearly 10:00 PM. While the 43
is half hour service, this reduces the number of options for travelers who may need differing headways
and forces passengers into one frequent option. The 38 is at half hour, even at peak times. The 43
switches to half hourly service after 6:12 on weekdays, but the L continues to run on 15-minute intervals
most of the day until about 7:30.
The increased headways and gaps from cutting the L Line make it more difficult for people to plan
schedules and efficiently use RTD, something we all want to do as transit riders. While I understand the
need for service repairs and I support them, the lack of substitutions with good headways is incredibly
disappointing and makes it more difficult to use RTD, something, again, that we're trying to do.
I would ask the Board to seriously consider how to account for these headways when approving service
changes. And I wanted to thank all of you for allowing me to speak on this.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. The comments will now move to our next speaker. It will be
Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Hi. I am Keith Brooks. There is no clock, so cut me off if I ramble, but this is important.
I would like to speak about public communications after an incident, which, depending on how you define
it, have become a weekly occurrence on RTD. It said that if you don't control the narrative, the narrative
controls you. Now RTD does a lot. They run buses. They run trains. But they do not control narratives.
After the last derailment-- unless there's been another-- on the H Line, you would expect a massive
bulletin at the front of the RTD website saying what's happened, what's being done about it, and what
riders need to know. I was on a train when that happened. All we got was the rumor mill from our
operator. They didn't even know if the train was going to be continuing past Broadway.
The fact that the train was derailed-- not stalled, derailed-- has still not been made official-- and that is
only known due to leaks and seeing it with my own eyes-- is not acceptable. That's the most basic fact. Is
the train even on the tracks?
Now, I know there are a lot of regulations and laws that burden RTD with how they can disclose things.
But right now, it does not feel like those are being treated as challenges that need to be overcome but a
convenient excuse to not have to address the problem. So you watch the evening news and there's a
helicopter and they're still talking about a stalled train. You have to at least put out a statement.
Even when events happen in wildly different, wildly more classified industries, there's at least a statement.
The military puts out statements when things go wrong. The agriculture industry, food safety, other forms
of transportation, they'll say something. Right now, it's just a, whoopsie, no service for a long time. Sorry
about that.

I don't like to use hyperbolic language but it comes off-- because silence still speaks-- that if you have a
car, what the hell are you doing riding RTD. And if you don't, well, who else are you going to go to,
chump? This has to stop. You have to put out something. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Brooks. Our next speaker is Robert Lee.
ROBERT E. LEE: Good evening. Thank you. My name is Robert E. Lee II. I am an Access-a-Ride user,
an Access-on-Demand user, public transportation user. Have lived in Denver, Colorado my entire life.
Currently, I reside in District J.
I'm here today to talk on behalf of the Access-on-Demand program and the add-a-stop functionality.
Access-on-Demand has been an amazing change to Access-a-Ride within the program of paratransit
here in Denver. It has given an amazing sense of independence and leveling the playing field between
drivers and folks that cannot drive. This spontaneity, the control, the ability to live life like I could drive a
car is such a benefit. It is something that is helping my life immensely and I am so grateful for Access-onDemand.
To find out that add-a-stop functionality, built into the function of Uber and Lyft, is being denied to us as
consumers, you're creating a second class citizen, a level of service that is different from all other
consumers. And I do not understand, in this age of diversity, inclusiveness, and equality, why we're
creating anything different than what everybody else has access to. Does not make sense to me.
My son is also an Access-on-Demand user. He has a schoolmate. They commute to school several days
a week. They live close to each other but not close enough to be able to walk to each other's homes.
They have to individually take Access-on-Demand services for each of them individually. If they could add
a stop, they could commute together, thereby taking away one car off the road. We're saving the
environment. And it costs less for RTD. Why would we deny this? I don't understand.
Thank you for your time. I appreciate your willing to listen to me. And thanks for being here.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Robert Lee. I am not seeing any other folks who have signed up to speak.
Mr. Kroll, if I may call on you, if anyone has added their name virtually to speak?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Davidson. There's actually three sheets there that I provided you with. So there
should be additional names.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. My apologies for missing the third sheet here. We have our
next speaker is Thomas-- and I'm sorry, I can't read the last name. Starts with a T.
SPEAKER: Thomas DePerro, District A resident. Welcome, Jaime Lewis. I look forward to your
representation and for you to represent the communities that are typically not represented by the rest of
the Board.

I second what has been said by my fellow GDT members. There are some things that are very
concerning. However, I'm not here to speak about those. I'm here to praise what has been done this vote
with the extra trains on the D and W lines. If you don't know, the D and W lines have been operating at
seven trains and eight trains, respectively, this year.
In speaking with operators, they have recognized how helpful that has been. They have been able to
service the trains, service their passengers safely, on time. And when I speak with the passengers, they
recognize that they're able to get to their transfers on time. When they're going out to areas with buses
that only operate every 30 to 60 minutes, that is a big deal.
Now of course, in a few months, that's all going to be disrupted. There's opportunity for us to keep the
level as high quality as possible. But just as the summer schedule is going to be in place, we're already
going to be planning for the fall schedule and the post construction schedule. Let's keep in mind the great
service that we have been providing in 2024 thus far and make sure that it meets and exceeds that when
we return to service levels after the projects. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Miller Hudson.
MILLER HUDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm Miller Hudson. I live in Littleton. I believe you have
copies in your packet of the column that I wrote today. But I wanted to take the opportunity tonight to tell
you that your first priority, in my view, from what I've learned down at the legislature, you need to start
talking to your mayors, your county commissioners, setting up meetings with city councils and having
them contact legislators. And even if they haven't come to an opinion yet, they can say, hey, let's put the
brakes on this thing until we understand what's going on.
The leadership in the legislature is very efficient. And if you wait until this bill shows up in committee and
think that you can show up there and say, oh, by the way, I think this is a bad idea, those votes will
already be committed. They are already being lobbied by the Governor's office and by others who think
that an appointed board is the right way to go.
I've only heard two issues that they raise up when I ask and say, what, why do you want to get rid of the
elected board? And they say, well, those district representatives try to protect service in their own areas. I
said, of course they do. That's the reason we have districts. And so I mean, it just blows me away.
And then they said, well, yeah, but you know, there's several members on the Board that didn't get there
by election. They had to win by write in. I was disappointed to hear that. I haven't paid a lot of attention.
But there's been a number of political leaders in this state whose first job was sitting here in this room.
And this is a good training place to learn how government works.
So what I'm here to do is to tell you that one thing I've learned in 50 years of political involvement in
Colorado is it's easier to strangle a baby in the cradle than it is to wait and try to stop the train once it's out
of the station. And the engine is running and that legislation is coming at you. I know you'll have later
discussions on this. If you'd like me to come in, I'd be happy to answer questions about why we put the
elected question on the ballot in 1980.
One final recommendation. I think you should toggle your attorneys about, you will have the authority to
put a ballot question on in November, if you choose. You could ask the people who live in the District, do
you want an appointed board? If the legislation, God forbid, passes, there is a process in which we can

petition and we can freeze it until voters vote on it. But it will be an arduous task to collect the signatures
and those kinds of things.
So what I wanted to pass on to you tonight is I presume most of you, if not all of you, are opposed to this
proposal. I doubt anyone has talked to you or come here and talked to you about this. But at the same
time that the Governor and the Front Range Passenger Rail wants to go to the voters in November and
ask them for a tax increase-- and I support Front Range Rail. I think it's a great project.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Hudson, you're at three minutes. If you could just briefly wrap up, that'd be great.
Thank you.
MILLER HUDSON: OK. Well, there's a great irony in asking voters for their money and telling them that
they can't elect their representatives on the RTD Board. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Hudson.
[APPLAUSE]

Thank you for your comments. Thank you for all of those who have participated. I believe I have made it
through my sheets here. Mr. Kroll, if you could please assist and let me know if anyone is online waiting
to speak virtually.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office here. We
have three individuals at this time who have raised their hands online in a desire to express some public
comment, the first of which is Nathan Hecker.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Please go ahead, Nathan Hecker. You are on mute. If you could unmute
yourself, Nathan Hecker.
NATHAN HECKER: Am I unmuted now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can hear you. Thank you.
NATHAN HECKER: OK. Sorry. For some reason, it wasn't allowing me to unmute.
Anyways, my name is Nathan Hecker. I also want to speak on the Access-on-Demand, the multi-stop,
double stop, whatever you want to call it. I also wanted to say, though, thanks for having this virtual. I
really wanted to be there in person, but since the double stop has been removed and I am a working
father, a single father as well, of a teenage daughter who is active in lots of sports, I was not able to do
double stops to go to places that I needed to go. So I had to do single stops. And unfortunately, all my
stops have been used. So maybe next month, I can save a stop to go to your guys' meeting in person. I
would like to be there.
But anyways, I'd like to echo what everyone else has been saying. I agree 100%. Putting this Access-onDemand has been great for us. We've been able to be competitive in the workforce. We've been able to
go to where we need to, having the multi-stop for the last couple years, or however long it's been. We've
been able to basically normalize our life. And then now it's been taken away.

And I submitted an email to the General Manager a few weeks ago-- haven't received a response-- of
concerns that I've had. So I guess I'm not really familiar with the forum here. I wish we could have some
actual feedback or some answers given right away. Because yeah, I could get an email back. But if I
haven't received one for the first time, how likely am I going to get one for the second time?
So just going off of what everyone has been saying, it sounds like it's an economic reason why the multistops have gone away. But if it's cheaper for me to go to A, stop at B, and go to C, rather than me to go to
A, stop at B, and then go to stop C, I guess I don't understand. So if there's a different formula you guys
are using, I don't know if it's just simple math or if you guys are using algebra or something to determine
how it's not cheaper doing that.
Because if I go from my house to my daughter's school and to work and it's cheaper than when I have to
go to my daughter's school, wait 15 minutes, and then go to work, the math doesn't matter. The math isn't
mathing, as my daughter would say. But yeah. So that's another thing.
As you've seen this morning, the weather was very snowy this morning. I'd also like to say that I'm a blind
deaf person as well. I wear hearing aids. So my traveling skills are good but sometimes I can't hear the
traffic. And when you throw snow in there and my hearing aids get wet, then I really can't hear nothing.
Throw some ice on the ground, it can't be-- it makes it a little bit harder to travel as well.
But anyways, my daughter, her school isn't too far from my house. So we live probably like 10 blocks
away from the school. But being that close to the school, she's not able to take the bus. So we have to do
an Uber. So instead of me-ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Hecker, you're at three minutes. If you could just take a few seconds to briefly
wrap up. Thank you.
NATHAN HECKER: All right. I'll finish that point and then it just takes a couple more seconds. So I just
wanted to say, so instead of me having to go to her school and then go straight to work, I had to go to her
school, get out, embarrass her, because I had to stand in front of the school for like 15 minutes, and then
get snowed on the whole time, and then get another Uber and pay extra because of the surge prices. I
guess it just doesn't make sense.
I guess the last thing I'll say is I'll maybe challenge all of you guys just for one month, instead of doing a
stop and go, go to your destination, stop there, get out of your vehicle for 5 to 10 minutes, 15 minutes,
and then get back in your vehicle and go wherever your final destination is.
But that's all I need. Thanks for letting me speak. Again, I hope you guys get to send me an email with
some answers. That would be great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Hecker.
[APPLAUSE]
Mr. Kroll, if you wouldn't mind calling our next virtual participant.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The next participant is Charles Davis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Charles Davis, please go ahead and unmute yourself and speak when you're ready.

CHARLES DAVIS: All right. Good evening, everyone. So my name is Charles Davis. And my fiance and I
have a two-year-old and we are both blind professionals. And so every day we have to wake up about
5:30, making sure that we're able to get ready so that we can get our son to daycare each day, and then
just with the hope that we're able to make it to work on time.
And so in November, and previous to November, my fiance and I were able to do that pretty successfully,
got in that routine using the two-stop asset for the Uber and Lyfts. And in December, when we did get that
email stating that we would no longer be able to use that service and that that service was not, in fact,
supposed to be implemented at all, that was very disheartening.
And there have been a number of times where, despite getting up at 5:30 in the morning, was not even
able to make it to work on time by 8:00 AM. And so this has certainly become an issue in terms of having
to go to the daycare. Daycare is about 13 minutes from our house. We wait outside sometimes 20, 25
minutes. Lately, with the strikes that Uber has been having, there have been a lot fewer drivers on the
road. And that's made it tremendously difficult for us as blind riders to be able to safely rely on these
vehicles to take us to where we need to be.
And it certainly was a great asset for us to be able to use that two-stop feature. And now that that is not
something that we're able to do under the guidelines of Access-on-Demand, it has really put us out. And
there have been a number of times where I just have been trying to make sure I count the rides, using
both Lyft and Uber. And there is not really a way to calculate that using the Lyft app. Uber does give us
that information. So I had to hand count all of the trips that I take each month using both apps. And so I
have to use both apps in order to even make it to work on time each day.
The other thing that I've looked at, in November, it was about $230 cheaper using the same number of
rides than in December and the month of January, on average, for me. So in summation, I just want to
say that it would be a tremendous asset for us to be able to use the two-stop feature again for Access-onDemand. I know that there are a number of reasons. A lot of these sentiments have been spoken during
the meeting today. But I am definitely a proponent of implementing that two-stop feature for rideshares
again in the Access-on-Demand.
So I appreciate the time today and thank you all for having us speak.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davis.
[APPLAUSE]
Mr. Kroll, if you could call the next participant in the queue please, virtually.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Mr. Chair, the next person we have is Paolo Solorzano. And then following that, we
did have someone raise their hand who is dialing in with a phone number.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Please go ahead.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. This is Paolo Solorzano, proud member of GDT and Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition. I also run the RTD Riders Alliance. But yeah, I'm kind of glad to hear this, what's going on here.
I think I'm here to talk about more oversight and the possible lack of oversight for maintenance and all
that. We've had a disastrous last summer, as everybody said. It was disastrous. And it affected tens of
thousands of people. So I guess what I'm talking about is like, yeah, I think disability-wise, yeah, I've

experienced that as well myself. I was on crutches for a while. And the signage-- I will never let go of the
signage.
Signage should be correct at all times. And that's why we need oversight, because who's in charge of
signage? And I remember getting off a bus on crutches, disabled, and not having the correct information.
And it made me very anxious and it made me feel very vulnerable. I could get hit or something. I don't
know. So it's just something that, it's been off.
And again, I've talked about this a lot and I've sent multiple emails, but the W Line it finally got the correct
information on that. But now the signage is not even working. It's not even on. It's not even displaying any
information. So we definitely need oversight.
And yeah, as an example, we should have, imagine if you were driving on a highway in your car, or let's
say, just imagine that you were just trying to get out of your garage and your own parking garage gate
wouldn't work. That's basically what RTD riders are experiencing right now. It doesn't even work.
And so please start thinking about how hard it is for us. And we don't have the greatest voices but
eventually we will. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Solorzano
[APPLAUSE]

Mr. Kroll, if you could please coordinate and call upon the individual waiting to speak via phone.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Chair. That individual has a phone number ending in -9710. And they are able to
untoggle their mute settings by pressing star 6.
ERIK DAVIDSON: If the caller with -9710 could press star 6, you are invited to go ahead and speak,
please.
SPEAKER: Yes. Hello. My name is Kisha. I'm a blind user of the Access-on-Demand service. And I would
just like to speak once more to the issue of the multiple stops.
I would like to appeal to you to keep them or to add the multiple stops, only because for vulnerability,
people are vulnerable and using the service would be safer, namely, for one thing, because of the-- I
mean, for instance, going to a drive-through for fast food, whatever items, that we were able to do that
with the multiple stops feature on Uber and Lyft. And now that it's taken away, they're no longer able to do
that. And that presents a problem with not only with safety but as far as, frankly, not able to go through
the drive-through, getting food, getting cold things like that, waiting for another ride potentially, and also
costing more. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll, is there anyone else waiting in the queue
virtually or by phone?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Chair. We had one more individual raise their hand. Jodi Witthaus.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Jodi Witthaus, please unmute yourself and proceed.
JODI WITTHAUS: Hello. Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can.
JODI WITTHAUS: Hello. I am also a blind Access-on-Demand user. And I think we speak volumes on
numbers tonight. I just want to echo everything that everyone else has said. It's very important that we
have documentation. And I think that's one thing that no one had mentioned earlier. When we all signed
up for this program, we were given documentation. However, it never stated that we couldn't do the two
stops.
So I would like to press that not only do we get answers to our emails but that we get documentation
giving us these rules so we know how to better proceed. Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Witthaus. Mr. Kroll, any further speakers in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Mr. Chair, we have no further speakers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do we have anyone in the room who has not spoken who'd wish to do so?
With no other participants in the queue, we will now close out public participation. As always, we greatly
thank all of the members of the public who have taken time out of your evening to join us to advocate and
help inform this Board Thank you very much.
We'll now at this time move to our external entities report. This month we have two external entity reports.
Our first report is from the Front Range Passenger Rail District. Mr. Andy Karsian has joined us. We thank
you for coming. I ask you to please come forward and begin your report to the Board when you are ready.
Please go ahead, Mr. Karsian.
ANDY KARSIAN: Thank you so much. It is my pleasure to be here. Thank you to the Board for the
opportunity to come and speak to you. Thank you to General Manager Johnson for being a part of my
board and being involved in the Front Range Passenger Rail. Also want to publicly thank Patrick Stanley
and his team because they are so such great partners in moving forward in collaboration as we work
through this peak period of study and the service development plan with the district. So thank you very
much.
My name is Andy Karsian. I'm the General Manager of the Front Range Passenger Rail District. Pleasure
to be here today. I have about 14 slides that I want to quickly go through. I'd rather have a conversation
with you all. So I'm going to go through them pretty quickly. But obviously, if you have a question or you
see something there, please don't hesitate to interrupt me.
So in the very beginning, I just want to introduce it all, some of the reasons why we are having this
conversation around Front Range Passenger Rail. Congestion, safety, reliability, air quality, discontinued,
disconnected communities. Obviously, all things that RTD is familiar with, works with as part of your
mission as well. And you also know that fact on the right side of the slide there, up into 2050, we're

looking at a lot more people, up to three million people expected to come into the region. And many of
them bring cars. Obviously, that increases the challenges that all of us are going to face.
Front Range Passenger Rail-- hey, that's too-- Let's go back one. Hey, there we go again. And there we
are. New intercity rail service is what we're talking about with the Front Range Passenger Rail District. In
initial service, we're looking at Pueblo through Denver, up to Fort Collins, with stops along the way. The
long-term vision, obviously with the District, is to connect up into Chicago-- Chicago, jeez, it has been a
day-- up into Cheyenne, Wyoming. We got a big vision. We're pushing it. We're pushing the envelope.
And also down into New Mexico. But why stop in New Mexico? Let's go to Mexico.
So moving on. We're going to start off with the existing, using the existing infrastructure in order to
minimize those costs and accelerate the service in the beginning so that we're not having a long-term
planning conversation. You all know this as well, but it's interesting to take a look at commuter rail versus
intercity rail. It's a fascinating conversation to have with the constituencies within the District right now and
with all of your constituencies.
We are used to commuter rail in this state. We have not seen passenger rail here. So when we talk about
that inner city service, it is a different kind of service that we are offering as a type of backbone to connect
those communities. Fewer stations, higher speeds, greater distances.
Benefits of the new passenger rail. Obviously, you all know this as well. You are well versed on this. The
reliable travel, the connected communities, economic vitality, sustainable growth. All of this, what we
really are focusing on here is this creates options for us and it creates opportunities for us to expand
transit beyond what we have today.
Very briefly, the history of Front Range Passenger Rail. The District was established in 2021 by the
legislature. It is the successor organization of the Rail Commission that you see there in 2017. The Rail
Commission, prior to that, there was a lot of planning being done, conversations around the Southwest
Chief down in Southeast Colorado. The Rail Commission at the time did the 2020 alternatives analysis,
which was the foundation for the planning efforts that we are currently underway.
So that is the District and how we came to be. This is the district. It is the district that stretches from the
North to the South is part of all 13 Front Range counties. As I said, it was created by the legislature in '21.
New local government with the mission, statutory mission, to finance, design, construct, operate a
passenger rail service along the Front Range. With the voter approval, we're able to levy taxes to fund
that rail system. That is part of the steps to be successful. And then working with the local communities
around station development.
Connecting communities is what this is all about. As we continue to talk to potential riders moving into the
future and developing the framework for the plans, we see very interesting opportunities and hear really
interesting observations. And what we're hearing is a lot of conversations how transit and travel has
changed post-pandemic. And people are really interested in using something like this in order to come
into Denver for a sports event or to go see a festival. Tourists connecting from DIA on down into the city.
I was talking to a gentleman the other day who came in and visited and he said, coming into the city was
great. He would love to be able to not even have to have a car, jump on the passenger rail, and then be
able to visit stations along the Front Range. Obviously, college students are also a conversation that we
are excited to have. We have so many institutions of higher education along the corridor. Military
communities. Wide variety of possible ridership that we have.

My Board is big and it is a wonderful Board. RTD is on the Board, as well as the railroads, Amtrak, New
Mexico, Wyoming, all ex-officio, CDOT. The Governor's got some appointees. And then the majority of
the Board are local government officials appointed from MPOs and TPRs along the corridor.
You've heard this often about a variety of different things, but we really are taking a look at a once-in-alifetime opportunity here. With the availability of federal dollars, the District being established, it is a clear
message to the state, as well as to the federal government, that the state is interested in passenger rail.
Strong state support. A lot of conversations about partnerships, as well as the federal government dollars,
as I mentioned, through the IIJA Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
So where we are today. The Service Development Plan is our plan. That is our blueprint for the Federal
Rail Administration to show where we are, what we're doing. We are taking a look at all those bullet points
over there, cost and financing, fare structure, routes. All of those to show that we've done our due
diligence and taken a look at those initial steps for the studies. This won't be the end-all, be-all. We
obviously need to continue after this working with the railroads and also go through an environmental
clearance process.
Our Service Development Plan we are looking at completing at around the end, or the beginning, early of
2025. The Department of Transportation, Colorado Department of Transportation, is managing our
Service Development Plan for us. They're providing technical assistance to us and managing the
consultant who is doing it. And then, of course, we have the ongoing coordination with Patrick Stanley
and his team, with the Peak Period Study and trying to integrate, as these two planning efforts move
along, how do we tie a bow on those and integrate them into the future.
This is an interesting program that the District is a part of. It was a new program developed under the
IIJA. The intent of the program is to funnel some of those federal dollars to passenger rail corridors
around the country. So it's kind of an incubator program for these programs. We applied to be a part of
this program. We were accepted into the program last year, in the fall of last year.
Interestingly enough, this program is a three-step program. We were one of two corridors in the country to
be accepted in step two. All the other corridors are in step one. That means that we've already done a lot
of planning and it's recognized. And so we are excited to be kind of ahead of the pack and working with
FRA on how to manage and how to be efficient as we continue moving forward.
This one is just I wanted to talk about all the partnerships and local coordination. The District is a local
government. Local governments are key to the success of this moving forward. A ballot measure will
ultimately be a local government ballot measure and the votes need to come from the locals and our
constituencies.
I think the most important thing for you all to see, except for-- and it should be on there-- that second
column of generating public support for a ballot measure. Even RTD is part of that as well, as we continue
to talk about the Peak Period Study and some of the opportunities that we have to partner with you. But
for financial support, station planning, multimodal connection, planning and design, RTD is at the table
and we are working with you all as we continue along this process.
Long-term conversation, long-term project, moving through it. This is where we're at. You can see the
Corridor ID up there, which encompasses those three boxes. We are in the Service Development
Planning process right now. And you can see the steps that we still have to take.
And that is where we are. And I am happy to answer any questions that anybody may have.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I will now do the old school calling on folks with hands raised. I'll
do my very best to look for orders. Mr. Karsian, thank you for the presentation. Thank you for joining us.
Just as we discuss this, two items to note of things this Board had decided to do. We have our
independent and RTD focused Northwest Rail Peak Service Study. And I just would like to thank you for
the participation and cooperation in that. As noted in the presentation, the predecessor of the Front
Range Passenger Rail District was the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission,
with whom this Board signed a cooperation agreement. Again, appreciate the spirit of cooperation.
With that, I'll open up questions to Directors. I think I saw Director Ruscha-- I'm sorry. Well, thank you for-let's go to-- Director Rosenthal, please go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Andy, for being here. Do I say
Andy? Is that OK?
ANDY KARSIAN: You can call me Andy, absolutely. Please call me Andy.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I remember working with you well when I was in the legislature and you were a
lobbyist. So it was always a pleasure to work with you.
So if it's OK, I will be fairly direct in my questions. And I'll have two questions, Mr. Chair. And these are
the sorts of questions that I believe will be asked of you, of the District, as you seek to pass this measure
at the ballot box, whether it's this year or the next year or the following years.
So my first question relates to the routing, which you said that you are currently underway to look at. And
as I see it, it looks like Fort Collins and Loveland is in one county, which is Larimer. Longmont and
Boulder are in Boulder County. It does not appear that the routing includes Broomfield County, which is
interesting, does not include Jefferson County, nor does it include Arapahoe, depending on where the
station in South Metro will be. Will it be in Arapahoe or not?
So my question to you is, as you speak to elected officials and folks around the state, obviously this is not
an end-all, be-all, because obviously the stations have, people are going to be coming from all directions,
but I did talk to a Arapahoe commissioner who expressed this issue. So how would you respond to that
concern, that it is not hit certain counties, Jeffco-- if I did not mention that, Jeffco is a big one as well.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yes. Thank you very much. And we recognize that by using the existing infrastructure,
we are limiting-- not limiting we're just using the infrastructure. And so that route is determined, as you
mentioned, for those communities that aren't going to get-- that don't have the tracks going through them
or aren't looking at getting a station, I think there's still some opportunities and benefits and values that
come from a passenger rail system, just like there's values and benefits that come from expanding out
RTD, even though we may not have an RTD stop or something in our community.
So if we-- I guess my first point would be there's no value of a passenger rail system now. And if we don't
pass this ballot measure, there never will be. We'll never be able to realize the systems of an existing
system. And what we see as the benefits, some of the benefits of coming from building this out along the
infrastructure is that we will increase the opportunities and the options for additional transit connections
around rail stations, that could be anything from RTD connections to bus rider to additional transit stops,
those opportunities don't exist today.

In addition, if we build a passenger rail system that incorporates the whole region, we're talking about the
whole region of the Front Range being connected, as opposed to what RTD is. It connects kind of an
urban core towards those specific kind of Metro areas. What we are talking about is expanding even that
and expanding the opportunities into the entire Front Range, so that not just the urban core of around
Denver Metro but we get Pueblo connected to Colorado Springs so that folks can travel along a system,
along the same speeds as they would for the cars as well.

So those would be some of the values and benefits that I think that I would talk to those communities that
aren't, that you've spoken to.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Andy. And for my other question, let's just assume, for example, that the
ballot measure goes this year, 2024, and that tax collection, from my understanding, would probably be
next year, so 2025. So given that and given the fact that this project would take about 10 or 15 years
potentially to complete, that means you're actually collecting tax revenue which will be sitting in an
account, similar to RTD's FISA account. And so the question is whether you would potentially encounter a
similar situation with Denver's-- excuse me, RTD's FasTracks system, to where we were facing, and
continue to face, rising costs of things like contractors and materials and labor costs and other costs that
have delayed the Boulder-Longmont, now intercity rail.
So would you just encounter the same thing? And how can you guarantee for the voters, taxpayers, that
this would not happen, that you would not face that type of situation as RTD has been challenged with?
ANDY KARSIAN: It is obviously a challenge and a difficulty. I can't guarantee you anything. Even if we
pass a ballot measure with the best information possible, something might happen. A recession might
happen. War breaks out. Who knows what can happen? So I can't guarantee anything to the voters.
Nothing is a guarantee.
However, the, I think, benefits that we have above and beyond what FasTracks had is this is a new
system. So those dollars that are coming in are going to be used right away. We have infrastructure
needs. We have capital construction needs along the corridor that we need to do right now. Some of that
involves the Northwest Rail corridor which we're now looking at as kind of a phase 1 of the project. It's a
big project. We're not going to be able to build it all out at once.
So we're looking at that northern portion for a variety of reasons. Some of this a joint authority
conversation that's happening. Some of the rail operator discussion is more amenable up in the North
because they have freight capacity. So there's some reasons why we're able to be there. So we're able to
build the capital construction.
We're also looking at the rail operator. There's going to need to be some state supported service for, say
it's Amtrak. That's going to be around $5 to $7 million, guessing. Don't know, right. But guessing around
state supported services for Amtrak, the maintenance, the maintenance facilities, what the service is, the
cost for labor, everything that you just described, that needs to be an ongoing cost that the District would
be responsible for.
And then just moving into the future, the larger capital constructions as we move into phase 2, station
development. So I think my answer is we are ready to spend those dollars now on the corridor, going
through that planning process in collaboration with the freight railroads in order to avoid the situation that
you described.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I'm going to go in the order of the hands that I saw
raised over here and then I'll move to the other side of the table. I think I saw Director Ruscha next.
Director Buzek, would you like to go, please?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And thanks, Mr. Karsian, for the report. So we've got this Northwest Rail Peak
Service feasibility study going on that we commissioned a while back, $8 million, 18 to 24 months, a lot of
data gathering.
One of the biggest pieces has to do with ridership numbers and projections, because you don't get federal
money if no one's going to ride your train. And I'm just wondering to what extent Front Range Passenger
Rail has done or will do ridership projections on this line. Because I've had people come to me and say, it
sounds like it's just a done deal and they want to build this train, and we haven't heard anything about a
need. So can you address that?
ANDY KARSIAN: So first off, it's not a done deal. I think that the perception that it's a done deal is out
there because we talk about maybe going to a ballot measure in '24. And that obviously is a fast, quick
opportunity to get to the ballot. And in order to get there, we have to have some certainty in how we
present ourselves to the voters. But it isn't a done deal. There are still the uncertainties associated with
that, even if we do go to the ballot. And we'll have to go to the ballot with those uncertainties.
The ridership projections, yes, we will have ridership modeling done as part of our Service Development
Plan. I think, if I'm not mistaken, the schedule for the planning is later in the third quarter of '24, of this
year. We've started that already. We've actually had some conversations with Patrick and his team, along
with the Peak Period Study. So we're taking a look at that. We've had some technical workshops with
CDOT and RTD and the District to discuss those and kind of start getting that RTC modeling discussions
out of the way so that we are prepared to do it through our planning process.
It's been interesting, I think, in the beginning, just some initial conversations, very back of the napkin
conversations that we've been having is up North in the Fort Collins area, there's a lot of opportunity up
there for some of those connections. As we move down the corridor towards Boulder and Boulder to
Denver, maybe a little bit less, because there's already a lot of transit connections between Boulder and
Denver. So maybe that's obviously going to be part of that conversation. The District doesn't want to do
any harm to the existing transit services that are out there, so obviously that would be a part of that
conversation.
And then you move down to Denver and Colorado Springs, clear opportunity and some nice initial
numbers with that. And then, of course, down to Pueblo, you're looking at fewer riders coming up from the
South but still great opportunities. So all of that is to say, it will be part of our Service Development Plan. It
will be part of what we'll have to communicate to the voters before we go to a ballot measure.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And just one more question, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: The question has to do with the interrelation of our Northwest Rail and Front Range
Passenger Rail. Because when Front Range Passenger rail comes out of DUS and goes to Longmont,
we're covering the same ground. From what you show, Front Range Passenger rail is not making all the
same stops. We'll make a couple more stops. And if we're competing for the same federal dollars, how do
you convince the federal government that we should have two trains on the same right-of-way, serving
the same population, and they should fund both of those?

ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. Well, we won't be competing for the same federal dollars. You compete for FTA.
I'll be competing for FRA. And there's a lot more FRA dollars right now with the IIJA than there is with the
FTA.
Now, but with that said, I do think that there's some real opportunity for partnership with RTD and the
Front Range Passenger Rail in order to create a service. I don't know what that looks like yet. But what
we're picturing is, it's probably the wrong nomenclature, but an express service that the Front Range
Passenger Rail can provide maybe once or twice during the day, and then the local service. That may be
a commuter rail.
But doesn't necessarily need to be two different train sets. They could be the same train set. It could be
an interoperability of fares. And using the same app. There's real opportunities and a real good chance
for us to have this conversation now in order to provide that clarity, I think, again, most importantly to the
voters when we go to them and we provide them with a nice partnership and a nice opportunity.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Appreciate it. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Hi, Andy.
ANDY KARSIAN: Hey.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks for being here today. I have a couple of questions.
So the first question touches upon what my colleagues just mentioned. You've said that the first train
won't be operational for about 10 to 15 years. Is that still the estimate?
ANDY KARSIAN: No. I think that-- I don't know when the first train is going to be operational. I think that
there's an opportunity, if we expedite this first phase with some of the conversations that we're having
currently, then that first phase could result in some operations prior to 10 years.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you.
ANDY KARSIAN: But ma'am, generally we're looking at a full operation, kind of trains running throughout
the whole District in about, yeah, around a decade, I would-- you're right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I was looking at, the annual report says the first train could be operational in
the next 10 to 15 years. So my follow-up to that is, recognizing that there's a lot of interest in the
Northwest corridor and a train to Boulder, does that mean we would have a-- is that the first train, right,
the train to Boulder? Or do you just mean the first train that can go from Pueblo to Fort Collins?
ANDY KARSIAN: No, I think it's the latter. And I will say, it's been a fascinating process to have this
conversation with RTD, with Front Range Passenger Rail, with the plan, with FRA. And I don't mean this
in a derogatory way or a negative way, but we are literally building a train while the tracks are being laid
while we're driving it to a station that has yet to be built.
So I know that sounds like an irresponsible thing to do. But when we talk about a 10- to 15-year time
frame, we want to try and expedite and take advantage of the opportunities that we have now as much as
possible. And I only say this because you mentioned the annual report says 10 to 15 years. That was

published prior to the conversation that we are having around a joint authority. And that's been kind of this
iteration of policy and opportunity as we continue along this process to try and maximize that opportunity.
So I said all of that and I apologize, I forgot even what you asked me.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll just go into the next question, if I could. OK. So you talked about potential
opportunity. Do you know, if FRPR were to get approved for a 0.8% sales tax, what would that annual
revenue look like the first couple of years?
ANDY KARSIAN: I don't know. That's also part of the planning process that we are underway right now.
We should have that-- I don't have that information for you right now. We're literally going through a
financial modeling process now. We should have that information in three weeks. I'd be happy to share
that with you. And it should be part of a public document once we do get it. So that will be available.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. Sounds like it'd be a whole lot more money than we generate. And
on the potential opportunities, you mentioned the IIJA funds. About how much, do you know, is left of that
pool that hasn't yet been promised or that we'd be eligible for?
ANDY KARSIAN: That's a great question. That's a great question. I want to say $6 billion. But of that $6
billion-- and I'm probably going to get this wrong, ma'am-- I want to say about $3 billion of it is dedicated
to passenger rail development in a certain way. Erik's nodding his head so maybe I'm getting that right.
So we're looking at that.
It hasn't been spent. So those IIJA dollars are still there waiting for us. And they're mostly going to be
spent through a Fed-state partnership grant program that's going to be available to folks. I believe the
NOFO comes out in 2025, because they're doing two funding cycles within that first NOFO in order to try
and capture the capital costs for all of these corridors that are now going through a planning process.
So those dollars are still there. I will be the first to admit, it's highly competitive. We are in a very
competitive environment. We are a brand new service. We are competing against California, the South,
Texas, corridors that have been established that are ahead of us and shovel ready to go. But with that
said also, the FRA likes us. We are in step two of that corridor identification program. We are continuing
to have conversations. So while I don't think we're going to get a billion dollars of those funds, I would
expect millions, hundreds of millions to come into Colorado in order to help this project.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Just a few more. So if I understand, there is about $3 billion that this
project might qualify competitively. OK. And the Notice of Funding Opportunity, or opportunity for funding,
is, I think, to be published this summer? And is that what I read?
ANDY KARSIAN: It depends. I think we've got a CRISI grant opportunity that's coming up this year,
maybe in the fall. I think Fed-state partnership is next year. We just put in for a raise grant for some
station planning in Colorado Springs and Pueblo. So we're trying to do as much as we can. There may be
an opportunity. I think we missed the Railroad Crossing Elimination Grant, unfortunately. But we're trying
to maximize as many efforts as possible.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. And so to that end, and I'll just be blunt-- thank you. How much money does
FRPR expect RTD to contribute? And if you need to round to the nearest $10 million, that's OK, but just
broadly.

ANDY KARSIAN: I have no expectation of money from you all. If you all decide to provide money into a
partnership, that's your prerogative. I have no expectation. It would definitely help the project. It would
help our chances. But that's your decision.
If I could wish, I would ask for enough money that we would be able to leverage for a major capital
project, such as positive train control along Northwest Rail, so that we could do a capital project that
ultimately brings down that final ask to the voters. I think that would be a win-win for both RTD and the
Front Range Passenger Rail District.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That was perfect segue into my final question. First, I hope you weren't insinuating
that you think we're stingy.
ANDY KARSIAN: Not at all.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But I was going to ask about the positive train control, PTC. Because per the white
paper, that would cost between $200 million and $350 million. Let's just say it would only cost $200
million and not $350 million. Is the request-- maybe not the expectation-- is the request from FRPR for
RTD to pay for that or put down a substantial down payment? I just want clarification on that. Maybe you
could speak to that a little. That would be helpful.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. And again, I'd have to come back with clearer numbers for the grants that we
would be leveraging those dollars for. But the exciting thing is, that I didn't mention before, is these grant
funds, also through the Corridor ID program that the District is a part of, have eligibility for a 90/10 match
from the federal government to the states or to the locals. So we have an opportunity. Again, part of that
opportunity that we're in is more favorable leveraging to get those federal dollars at a 90/10 or an 80/20
match so that hopefully we wouldn't have to-- you all wouldn't have to contribute a huge sum of money in
order to get the federal dollars in order to complete the project.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So not withstanding that it might seem problematic to taxpayers that we would foot
the bill for private industry's safety improvements, I guess my only other question is, do you feel like you
need the Board's commitment to a certain dollar amount to be competitive for these federal dollars?
ANDY KARSIAN: I think from the District's and the state's and RTD's point of view-- I don't know how to
answer that question. I can't answer that question. I think what we can do best is continue to work
together and try and find ways to leverage those FISA dollars, if you all want to, towards the original intent
upon which they were meant.
And if that means using those for development of sightings along the stations along the Northwest Rail or
if it means utilizing them for PTC or whatever it is that we decide is the most efficient and useful way to
move forward in order to make this happen, that would be the answer for your question. And I'm sorry,
that isn't a dodge to your question. I can't answer that because I don't know the cost of PTC. We haven't
completed our studies yet. You all haven't had substantive policy conversations about what you're willing
to do. So I'm just afraid I'm unable to answer that question at this time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I appreciate your candor and honesty, Andy. And I'll yield to my colleagues. Thank
you.
ANDY KARSIAN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I saw Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Yes, thank you. So I have my one question but I'm just not sure about how to really
approach it. So I'm going to ask the other one first and I'm going to think about the second one.
In your mind, Andy, what is the next step? How do you see this proceeding with this Board, not
necessarily with GM/CEO, but especially as we were potentially looking at a very tight time frame, what
does that look like for you? And what does that look like for us?
ANDY KARSIAN: Again, and I don't mean to hem and haw, it is such a difficult question to answer. Six
months ago, I would have answered that question like that. But as soon as I answer the question,
something changes. And so I need to answer it in a different way. Or the FRA says, oh, no, we got to
include this in CIDP, or this. So it's an ongoing process.
To your point, it's a very fast process and an expedited process that we're talking about. And if we're
talking about going to a ballot in '24, then again, I think the expectation with you all is, let's get together
and try and figure out what the messaging would be, if you're all amenable, to our constituencies along
the corridor and that Northwest Rail in order to be the most successful that we can be. And if that means
getting money to the corridor, that's great. If it doesn't, what is that message? What do we say?
I think that would be the absolute key that we would have to communicate very clearly to our
constituencies what it is we're doing and why and what value that brings to them. That would be my
answer to that. If we have more time and we don't go to the ballot in '24, then we've got more time to
iterate. I've got more time to work with you all. We've got more time to discuss this. You all have more
time. We may get better information from BNSF. And the state, during the legislative session, may do
something that also informs this conversation.
And so it's a really dynamic discussion, as you all know. In this next month, my Board is going to get
together on a Board workshop and decide whether or not to go to the ballot in '24, or recommend that we
go to the ballot in '24. If we decide to, boom, it's off to the races and that is all we're doing, right, creating
a ballot measure, getting it on the ballot, 13 counties, direct, everything, that's it. If we decide not to, I've
got another plan.
And so again, not to try and dodge your question at all, but it's just, it's not a clear-- I had a slide up there
that shows kind of how the process goes. And it deceivingly says it's in a linear way. But we're having
conversations right now about how to possibly expedite NEPA for the Northwest Rail corridor because
we're using existing infrastructure, because it's been studied by the Peak Period Study, because BN
already provided some information. Can we use that in order to expedite a time frame? And if we can do
that, that influences messaging to our constituents and could also impact maybe some of the decisions
you all made.
If we don't do that, then there's another frame in order for us to. So it's a really interesting, complex,
dynamic discussion that we're having right now. And I'm glad that we're all having it because it's an
exciting opportunity. I hope that answered your question in a way that didn't answer it. I'm sorry. That's
the best I could do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick, did you have another follow-up question? We could come back
around, if you'd like the time.
IAN HARWICK: No, I think I'll pass. It's a little too awkward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I'll go to Director Lewis, please.

JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Andy, for coming tonight. I know there's a lot of tough
questions. I've got a couple questions.
One of the questions I have is, have you decided what the South Metro stop is and where it is?
ANDY KARSIAN: No.
JAIME LEWIS: Because I know there's only two stops in the RTD district, one being Union Station, which
is a no-brainer. But I just wasn't sure what that South Metro stop, where that was supposed to be.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. No, we have not finalized that. There are some-- the stations, the nine primary
stations along the corridor that have been identified through the planning process, one of them is South
Metro. Others are further along than South Metro. But we continue. We were just talking about it today, as
a matter of fact. But-JAIME LEWIS: Now when you guys decide on these stops, are you considering Title VI at all?
ANDY KARSIAN: It's all-JAIME LEWIS: Because there's a really bad visual there. You have one in South Metro, the richest part of
the metropolitan area. You have the downtown stop. But then nothing in North of Denver. So that's a
really bad visual. So if you could pass that on and discuss that, I think that'd be really important.
ANDY KARSIAN: Grateful. Thank you.
JAIME LEWIS: The second question I had-- and this is not just for our district but all the transit districts
along this line-- is that there's going to be an impact where this line is going to be great but it's going to be
sad if we aren't able to take those people from the train stop to the destinations that they want to go. For
us, it's a little easier. Union Station, fantastic.
And that's why I was asking where the South Metro stop is, because we're going to have to fill in that gap.
Because I presume 80% of the people taking this train are going to want to get off in Denver. And so
we're going to have an influx of people and we're going to have to cover that. Now I'm just curious
between our matching funds that we will give you should be separate from the operational budget that
you're going to submit to the FTA. And I'm wondering, have you guys considered reimbursing some
money to the local transit agencies to cover that last mile connection for the people getting off the train?
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. Thank you so much for that question. Because yes, there's a lot in that, so I'll just
answer that last part first. I'm very interested in having a conversation about a local share back as part of
a ballot measure. I don't think that we're going to get anything else from the Feds or anything like that. But
as a part of a ballot ask, I am very interested in what can we figure out in order to get some of those
dollars back to the locals to address the needs that the local communities have.
I won't know what all those communities. I won't be able to address the first and last mile issues. As the
District, we're going to be running that train. But we need to be able to connect to those transits. We need
to be able to get people in and out of the stations and create those opportunities for those possible transit
connections. That's the whole purpose of really what it is we're doing.
So I'm very interested in it. I'm very passionate about that, as well as making sure that those connections
happen. It doesn't make sense to just build this and let it lie and hope that a bunch of riders come in. No. I

mean, as I said before, if we're able to build this as a connector for the whole region, then that not only
helps RTD. It helps Colorado Springs connect to Pueblo. It helps the US Air Force Academy connect to
Monument. It helps Fort Collins connect to Cheyenne. Things that don't happen now could happen as a
result of this. That is why I really enjoy it. And so what you've just described is very much a part of the
vision of what we would like to see moving forward.
JAIME LEWIS: May I continue?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes, thank you. I really appreciate your candor and your excitement over that because I
think those are very big issues to be addressed. Thank you. And keep in touch.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. As a matter of fact, my staff-- no, never mind. They usually tell me to settle down
because I usually get too far ahead of the whole station planning effort and I get too excited about it. And
it's like, walk before you run. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Is that all your questions? Thank you. I'll move to First Vice
Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Andy, I appreciate your passion and your vision. But I'm an
engineer, so for me the devil's in the details. And you mentioned something about our peak service plan
was under the auspices of FTA and yours was FRA. And I understood that because it's commuter rail and
we would be operating on BNSF right-of-way for the peak service plan, that it would also be FRA. And I'm
getting a nod from Debra. So they're both FRA projects, not FTA.
The other thing that I wanted to point out is that four years ago, almost to the day, I went down to Fort
Worth with our then Director of Capital Programs, AGM of Capital Programs, and we met with the BNSF.
And we talked about the peak service plan and some of the details that would have to be fleshed out for
that. And I know Jyotsna is in the audience. But at that time, the price tag was pretty hefty in light of the
fact that there were a number of sightings that would have to be pretty long, bridges, a number of things.
So that price tag in and of itself was pretty daunting.
And you're throwing around $3 billion or whatever. Easily that segment could consume that entire budget.
But I've also been, as an engineer and as a consultant, the BNSF was my client for a number of years.
And I spent-- well, I've been in this business for 40 years. But there have been a number of local
governments who have pushed for relocation of those tracks out of their central business district, Fort
Collins being one of them. At one point, Denver being another one. Granted, those were long haul coal
trains.
But I'm not sure if you factored into the equation the desires of some of those local communities to make
some significant changes to that track location and infrastructure. And I just see a lot of dollar signs that
right now-- and rightly so-- you do not have answers for. But as I would be looking for answers to that
before I would be springing, personally, before I would be springing it on the voters to say trust us. Thank
you.
ANDY KARSIAN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. Treasurer Bouquet, please.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair, and thank you, Andy for being here. Going off Director
Lewis's question, I sparked a question myself. Because on the graphic itself in the South Metro-- so I
actually represent South Metro, so the Douglas County area-- the graphic has Castle Rock on it. And
currently Castle Rock is kind of a transit desert and it's on the I-25 corridor and it's not part of RTD. And
there's a huge opportunity-- and this is just me as one individual Director talking right now-- that that is a
great, great route that I see from Castle Rock to Denver. Because that's what I hear most from my
constituents, or former constituents, because Castle Rock was actually part of RTD at one point.
So going to Director Lewis's question, one, if that graphic exists and it says Castle Rock that has kind of
that transit desert right there, folks are going to want that as a guarantee ultimately, if they get excited
about it. That's the one thing I would go for that, forewarn about is, hey, if we have Castle Rock on that
graphic, we're going to be expecting a train going through Castle Rock to Denver, most likely, because
you would have folks could directly going there. That'd be my first forewarning.
And the other one is, I think that would be an excellent stop for the South Metro station. So just wanted to
advocate for my Douglas County folks. Thank you.
ANDY KARSIAN: Thank you. And Mr. Chair, if I may, really fast.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please go ahead.
ANDY KARSIAN: It's a fascinating conversation down in South Metro, because the tracks are on either
side of the highway around Castle Rock. So how do we accommodate that? What do we do around that?
So we talk about engineering. The engineering aspects around a station in Castle Rock or South Metro is
probably some of the most in-depth engineering and interesting conversations that we're having.
So there's a couple of areas that we're looking at down there. We have heard from locals that local
government folks, that they don't want a station there. We've heard from others that they do. And so it's
an interesting dynamic with South Metro. RTD is a major factor in that perception of what we are bringing
to them. And so I think it's a really-Thanks. We are meeting with the local government planners. We've met with constituents down there.
Our Board member down there is very active in trying to build consensus around where a station could
be. So look forward to the continuing conversations.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Bouquet. I'd just like to pause just for a brief moment to ask the
Board Office too, are we recording? OK, great. Thank you.
OK, I did see Director Dishell's hand, but I believe-- Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Am I good to go?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. Andy, thank you for the presentation. And thank you to the
Directors for the questions. I just have a couple here, right, one of which is looking at more successful
commuter rail systems, the Metra in Chicago, the PATH, New Jersey PATH to get into Manhattan.

We're talking about balancing cost savings with sharing lines. And at what point are you sort of
cannibalizing the service by limiting the amount of service that can be provided? Can you talk about that
balance where, inevitably, if we're sharing with BNSF, that means we're sharing, which means we can
only run so much service at a time, which means we may be making an intensive capital investment
without much ability to operate. Can you talk to that a little bit?
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. And thank you very much for that question. I think I kind of alluded to it before.
We have, in the District we've got two rail operators. To the north of Denver, it's BNSF. To the south, it's
UP, as you know. BNSF has more freight capacity now, for a variety of reasons, and they're also more
amenable to the discussions around passenger rail. They've also partnered with Amtrak. They run some
commuter rail and passenger rail in other areas around the country. And so they are a freight railroad that
is, as I said, much more amenable to the discussion. So I think that lends credibility and opportunity for us
to run trains in that scenario that you were discussing.
Part of where we are right now, though, to a point earlier, when we're talking about ridership modeling,
we're also taking a look at the freight traffic, working with BNSF, working through the NDAs in order to get
their data in order for us to do the RTC modeling and to have a kind of conversation around the freight
traffic, what is there, what can we do, and what are the opportunities.
So I think that BNSF has expressed-- you are absolutely right, and I'm not minimizing, I'm just saying that
we are trying to address those concerns early on, recognizing that even after we do our Service
Development Plan, we still need to negotiate with BNSF. There's still a whole other negotiation. We still
need to get capital construction there. We still need to build it all. We need to identify what those
engineering costs are and what is necessary. And so there's plenty of steps that still need to be had in
order to accommodate passenger rail on the BN corridor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And Director Dishell, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. One other question, and maybe this is a bit of learning from RTD's foray into
this space, which is how are you going to keep the express routes, as you sort of alluded to it, as express,
right? I think one of the challenges that we have is we promised everyone everything, which means that
everyone gets a stop and there are so many rail stops that it actually now will likely take longer to take the
train from end to end than it would be to drive it from a lot of places. And you end up with an increasing
number of stakeholders, all of who want all of it. How are you managing those conversations with the
districts or counties, AHJs, who may not be receiving a stop, or how are you making it so that this express
route is actually express?
ANDY KARSIAN: Again, great question. And I think our first step is to not promise everybody everything.
And one opportunity we have that I think RTD did not have during FasTracks was that we're talking about
an inner city passenger rail service that is defined by the FRA in a certain way. And they will withdraw
support and/or funding if we have too many stations, if the train goes too slow.
So there are requirements that we must keep. Also by statute, we need to be competitive with car travel.
The amount of time that it would take for you to travel from Denver to Boulder, the passenger rail would
have to be competitive with that along the other corridor, sections of the corridor as well.
Another component that I hope that we will be able to have more time with is the education piece. As I
mentioned, we are out talking to all the local governments now. We have some of the smaller
communities knocking on our door for stations. And I think along the Northwest Rail corridor, there is a

real opportunity for them to maybe realize some stations that are part of the RTD line but wouldn't be part
of the Front Range Passenger Rail line.
And then I think ultimately in an ideal scenario, we would be able to have the freight capacity off the rails
during the times when we are doing the trains in order to protect the headways and the times for service,
and then build in the commuter rail portion in order to do that more local. But I know that's kind of a real
high level general answer to your question. And I only do that because we really haven't gone through the
modeling and the in-depth planning yet through the Service Development Plan for me to give you a
better, more detailed answer.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. I appreciate, Mr. Chair, if I may just quickly close out. Really appreciate it. I
think there's a lot of really good opportunity for partnership here, a lot of opportunity to collaborate and
work together. I think I would implore you all to really look intensively at Title vi and those obligations and
what it looks like to have a stop in South Metro, which as Director Lewis mentioned, is one of the more
affluent areas, a stop in Boulder, which is one of the more affluent areas, a stop in Fort Collins, which is a
college town with Stryker and some other major more affluent areas.
We're talking about taxpayer dollars and going to service people and transit as an equalizer. And I think
there's a real robust opportunity to look at both service stations as well as interconnection and
interoperability and also consider what is the highest and best use of the funds in order to provide better
transit for everyone. I think it's exciting. I think the vision is great. But I do-- the devil's in the details and I
do think there's still a lot of there there, as they say, just from learning from our own choices that were
made when we wanted to get to the ballot and wanted to get approval.
So thank you so much for coming before us and just some final words. Thanks.
ANDY KARSIAN: Thank you, Director.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you, Andy, for coming in.
Just one question initially. The Service Development Plan is now due, is it late 2025 or sometime in-ANDY KARSIAN: Early '25.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Early 2025. And this discussion of a RAISE grant, maybe a CRISI grant in 2024,
maybe a ballot issue, are you getting a lot of the pieces of the Service Development Plan along the way?
Are you in the technical process where we and the public would start to see some of this before that
time?
ANDY KARSIAN: Yes. And it's going to be an interesting-- short answer, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yeah. I think that it's been interesting over the last year, when we've been doing the
Service Development Plan, the FRA started off the planning process in a very linear way. There's 14
components of a service development plan. Step one, purpose and need. Show us the methodology of
how you're going to develop your purpose and need. Show us your methodology for this second,

methodology for this. Once all the methodologies are there, now we can go back and start that iteration
on the modeling and all of this.
So most of last year was spent on developing methodologies as well as trying to figure out the NDAs with
the railroads. And then FRA changes their mind and they want to do something a little bit different,
because we're all building this train kind of as we're going along. So there were some delays baked into
the last year. Now we're finally getting into what you just described as some of those more technical
aspects and the actual modeling and the work that the consultants are going to do.
So I'm really excited to start seeing some of those numbers and to see how those correspond with what
you all are seeing with the Peak Period Study and then what we do with those. That's going to be nice.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And just a quick one. You mentioned that Colorado was one of-- the
Front Range Passenger Rail District was one of three that were accepted into step two of the Corridor ID
program. Is that just because we started it earlier, we started the Service Development Plan-ANDY KARSIAN: Because we're so awesome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So awesome. That's what I thought.
ANDY KARSIAN: I think that was the exact words that FRA used.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Perfect.
ANDY KARSIAN: But I think that was the engineering term that they said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANDY KARSIAN: No, no. It was because of the efforts that we have done, because of the District being
created. So all of those things that we discussed during that history slide, to your point, yes, that's what
they saw.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. OK for me to proceed?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Andy, I want to thank you very, very much for taking the time to
share all of this with us. And despite the numerous questions that you are hearing that may indicate
perhaps some hesitation with all of this, and which questions will ultimately, of course, have to be
answered, I do want to appreciate and applaud the fact that you all have done what I think good planners
must do. And that's make no little plans. They have no magic to stir people's souls.
This is a grand plan. And hopefully, together with our communication and cooperation and collaboration, it
will come about. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I see, Mr. Karsian, if you'd like to respond.

ANDY KARSIAN: Very briefly. I just wanted to say, I'm very grateful for all the questions. I don't consider it
at all any kind of sense of opposition. I wouldn't care if you all were all opposed to this. I want to talk to
you all. We need to move forward together, if we're going to move. And so I'm grateful for the questions.
And I would much rather have a dialogue and a question and answer with you all than for you all to be
sitting back and being like, hm, I wonder what the District's thinking about, what are they going to do.
So obviously, we need to be partners in this together. And I'm really grateful for the conversations around
the grand plan. I agree with that 1,000%. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. Are there other questions? Looking to Directors who
haven't asked anything. OK. I'll go to Director Ruscha. Please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just want to get a better understanding of the
timeline. And I'm going off of the white paper. It states, or implies, that we would have to enter into a JPA
agreement in order to unlock these federal dollars that will be potentially coming down very soon, in the
next calendar year. So could we get a better sense from you on what your timeline is? And I do
appreciate you being a good sport tonight. All the years in the capitol.
But this is the first time I've met you. And no one from FRPR has ever called me. So I haven't been
lobbied. And if you could fill me in on what you think the next steps would be. And recognizing also that
there is a bill being drafted in the legislature that could also remove the Board and replace them with
appointees. I just need to understand that timeline-ANDY KARSIAN: Well, I won't speak to that piece of legislation. However, I will speak to the rest of your
question.
So I think maybe it's a quick opportunity-- and I know I've been taking a lot of time and I apologize-- but a
quick opportunity to discuss this conversation around joint authorities. I think that there is the California
model of a joint power authority, where local governments are able to appoint individuals and dedicate
funding and create a separate entity in order for them to focus on moving a specific project ahead. And so
that that project is removed out of their conflicting priorities or desires and politics of the local
governments and there's an opportunity for that to be moving forward. That is the intent of the joint
authority conversations.
I don't think that the legislature will create another entity, another agency in order for us to move forward
on this collaboration between RTD, the state, and Front Range Passenger Rail. I think that would be a
copy and paste of what the District already does. And the legislature created the District in order to do this
so I think that would be duplicative. However, there is an opportunity possibly for a legislatively defined
IGA that we can all enter into in order to provide some opportunities, to dedicate individuals, funding, for a
purpose for the first phase of the Northwest Rail project, the entirety of it. And that first phase could be the
Northwest Rail and this joint authority could help make that happen earlier than if it didn't happen or if it
wasn't created.
So I think that's the intent on it. And then for the timelines-- you may have more questions on that, but I
want to get to your timelines. So for the timeline, I think it's, again, an interesting conversation. I would
say, for our Service Development plan being done at the beginning of '25, if we're able to build into that
Service Development Plan a lot of these kind of pre NEPA conversations and we're allowed to do that by
the FRA, then the timeline could be expedited.

But again, we're going to have to negotiate with railroads. I don't want to tell you or the public or anybody
that this is going to be a super fast timeline and we're going to get a train in a year. That would be
disingenuous and irresponsible. I think that we're going to try and do the best we can as quickly as we
can to be as responsible as we can but not let politics drive the planning and also not let the planning
interfere with possible political solutions that could help us as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Comment, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Final comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thank you, Andy. I appreciate your answer to that question.
I would say that what some see as opportunity others might see as a force of hand or
disenfranchisement. But I just wanted to make sure that I understand clearly what you are saying is that
FRPR is not coming to the Board with a request now or in the near future. Does that mean that we're
going to wait and see what happens with the legislative session?
ANDY KARSIAN: Absolutely. I think if we're going to come to you all and continue to have conversations
under a joint authority, then we need to figure out what that joint authority is, what you all are comfortable
in with that joint authority, what CDOT is going to be comfortable in with that joint authority, how it's
defined by the legislature, what does the District bring to the table. Can we help administer something?
So there are, as everybody is saying, it's easy to talk about things at a very high level. But once we start
talking about those details, it can be a different conversation. So yes, to answer, yes, that's what you're
hearing.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Or no, you're not asking the Board for anything at this moment.
ANDY KARSIAN: I'm sorry. Wow. Let's make it confusing. Yes, I meant to say no.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir.
ANDY KARSIAN: Yes, I'm not coming to the Board right now with a request.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks. I'd just like to remind everybody, we're coming up on a long period, just about
an hour of discussion here. So if there's just any pressing final questions or comments from Directors, I'm
happy to take them if they're brief. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: May we continue our conversation with follow-up through email to your staff,
questions for you? Just for the sense of time. I appreciate you being here, by the way. Thank you. I have
a couple questions but I'll reserve them for email.
ANDY KARSIAN: I am more than happy to answer any questions or meet with any of you, whatever you
all need. Let me know.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Yes, please, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thanks again, Andy. No, it's not the awkward question. I'm going to leave-- it sort of dealt
with what JoyAnn said just about us moving into the guillotine.
OK. So hypothetically, if you all, if your Board next month says, we want to go for 2024, should we
anticipate a call from you in April asking for-ANDY KARSIAN: For money?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ANDY KARSIAN: No.
IAN HARWICK: Should we anticipate a call saying, hey, can we have another conversation, not about
money but just another conversation?
ANDY KARSIAN: Well, I think it all depends. I mean, if the legislature comes out with a joint authority
mandate for us or whatever, then yeah, we're going to have that conversation. Otherwise, if my Board
decides to go to the ballot, or the Governor wants us to go to the ballot or whatever, if my Board decides
to go to the ballot, then we have about three months to come up with a ballot measure language to get on
13 county ballots.
I don't think that affords us much time for negotiations between my Board and your Board and figuring out
what we would be doing moving forward. So I think if my Board decides to go to the ballot in '24, as I said
before, we've got a clear direction and there is very little time beyond focusing on what the ballot measure
will say and getting it onto the ballot.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. Thank you very much, Andy, for being here. Very much
appreciate the information. You took a lot of questions. That was an hour of discussion there. I appreciate
the questions from all of my Directors.
It certainly sounds time-- if your Board does decide to move forward with a ballot initiative in 2024, then
there is very short amount of time. And I think that this Board, at this point, has the opportunity to
participate in some of your meetings. So I would encourage Directors to please follow up with questions
and to do so and to understand this. Of course, we have our General Manager and CEO as an ex-officio
member on the Board.
We look forward to any proposals or any questions that you may have for this Board, but certainly
appreciate your time in providing the update. So thank you for being here.
OK. We're going to do one more external entities report, and then we are going to take a break after that
for the restrooms and so forth. But I want to move to our final external entity report for the evening before
we do take that break, which will be from the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD. Mr.
Earl Lee, thank you for joining us here virtually. Thank you for your patience. Please go ahead.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. That's a hard act to follow. I don't know if I can live up to that one, but
we'll see what we can do.

The ACPD committee met on February 13. And we opened with a discussion. We have had a number of
discussions regarding the possibility of renaming the Civic Center Station in honor of Reverend Wade
Blank, based on his contributions to the disability community. And as a response to our questions, Jack
Kroll, the Executive Director of the RTD Board Office, provided some updates for us.
He explained that the current policy for renaming is a culmination of three Board actions, saying that the
Board is seeking to write a new comprehensive policy for the future. He requested policy suggestions
from the committee regarding renaming the properties and stations. Excuse me. Betty Elias, one of the
committee members, suggested an online form for the public to make suggestions. Myself, I suggested
the possibility of renaming it, renaming the building, the Reverend Wade Blank Terminal at Civic Center
Station, which would be similar to THE Wewatta and Chestnut Pavilions at Denver Union Station.
Mr. Kroll responded that the name suggestions would likely go through several groups, including advisory
committees, RTD employees, historians, et cetera, and would eventually include both an honorific name
and a geographical location. I intend to pursue this further in our next ACPD meeting and try to get some
solid input from the Committee on what sort of criteria we feel should be used in this.
The next subject that we brought up is kind of a carryover from the last meeting we had in 2023 and that
has to do with safety and police response. I had brought up in that meeting some concerns expressed to
me regarding people not feeling safe riding on RTD buses, being around the stations and bus stops, that
sort of thing. So we brought in-- I'm not sure if I can pronounce his name correctly, and I apologize-- Brian
could-- I'm going to have to just let it go with Brian at this point, I think.
Brian Cousineau is Commander of the Transit Police. He was very informative, explaining to us a number
of things that the Transit Police have done. Was very excited to hear that the police department transit
officers are now up to 77 sworn officers. I know that they were in the mid 20s at the end of last year. So
it's good to see continued build up of the force. He says that it should be close to 100 by the end of this
year. So that's all going very, very well.
Betty Elias once again brought up a concern about late night travel, having not seen any security on
trains during her late night commute. She does travel late at night and she is a disabled, so she does
have some concerns about not having any transit officers or anyone around from a security standpoint.
And again, Mr. Cousineau indicated that the Transit Police should provide 24/7 service within the next
couple of months.
One of the questions that was raised was the authority of the RTD Transit Police as far as being able to
arrest someone. I have always heard that they don't have the authority to arrest someone so they must
rely on local law enforcement officers to do that. And he explained that they do, in fact, the sworn officers,
not the contract security officers, but the actual sworn transit officers do have the authority to detain and
arrest individuals who have committed a crime.
The issue that they apparently run into is that the Transit Police do not have holding facilities to detain
suspects. They don't have property storage. They don't have detectives. They don't have a way to
investigate and some of those kind of things. And so they're starting to run into some issues with local
authorities not providing the kind of assistance that they really need.
And apparently there was an incident where they couldn't get local authorities to help with a drug
confiscation and the decision was made to discard some drugs in trash cans rather than dispose of them
properly. That has been completely resolved and there is now a process in place where RTD police will
dispose of any sort of narcotics properly. But it just goes to show that there needs to be more support for

the Transit Police. And I think this is very, very important. So I hope that the Board will consider all
proposals to support Chief Fitzgerald and the Transit officers to provide security for all of us who ride
RTD.
Curtis Chong who is one of our newer members, who is a blind passenger, opened a dialogue regarding
multiple stops on Access-on-Demand through Uber. I won't go into any detail because I think we've heard
this subject quite a bit throughout this evening. So I won't go into any detail. It is obviously something that
is on everybody's mind. It does seem to be something that many, many people found very useful.
Betty Elias made a comment about not having that multiple stop available. And after she made one stop,
she called for a second Access-on-Demand to pick her up to take her to another spot and she waited for
five hours to get service there. So whatever the outcome is, something needs to be done.
Paul Hamilton, the Senior Manager of Paratransit Services, explained that the multiple stops was never
supposed to have been part of the program, Uber apparently took it upon themselves to do this, and that
trying to get everybody on board with all the contractors and the different systems that are in use would
be very difficult. But it appears that this is something that needs to be looked at. And we have decided to
push any further discussion over to the next APAC/ACPD meeting, the joint meeting that will come up, I
believe, in March.
Gabe Christie gave us a-- who's the ADA Manager, the Civil Rights Division-- provided an update on
recruitment of new members for the ACPD, telling us applications are available through March and will be
onboarding new members before the 4th of July.
And finally, Jack Kroll announced that eight Board Director seats are up for election in November and he
encouraged anyone interested in running to reach out to him or the Board Office.
We did have a question raised regarding the appointment of Jaime Lewis to the Board. Mr. Kroll
explained the details of why and how that appointment was made. And I would like to add my
congratulations to Jamie. Glad that decision was made.
And this concludes my report on the ACPD meeting in February.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Lee. Thank you for being here and thank you for your
report.
At this time, I'm going to ask that we take a five-minute break. At 7:53 PM, I will call this meeting back to
order. At 7:53 PM, we'll call back to order. Please go ahead and take a break. Thank you.

2024-02-27
Board Meeting
(Part 2)

ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I'm going to call the meeting back to order. All right.
After a break, we're calling the meeting back to order. It is now 7:55 PM Mountain Standard Time. We're
going to move into our committee reports, starting with the Audit Committee.
Director Dishell, are you still with us? I am not seeing Director Dishell. I'm going to move on. We can
follow up with the Board regarding next meetings with respect to the Audit Committee. I'll now move to the
Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything you would like
to share?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, the Committee met on February the 13th. The
Committee minutes are included in the packet. And I will not repeat what they say. I do want to point out
as a heads up to the Board that we did some significant tweaks to the Finance and Planning Committee
work plan at the Board retreat.
Those will be incorporated into a revised work plan that we will be presenting to everyone and that will
include enhanced TABOR funding information as part of the Revenue Diversification Working Group, and
also changes to the budget process that will be discussed at the April meeting. Our next meeting is on
March the 12th. Your minutes say March the 13th, but the meeting will actually be on Tuesday, March the
12th. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That concludes my report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. I'm actually going to move to the Performance
Committee next. Committee Chair Catlin, do you have anything you would like to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Most of what I would have to report would be exactly what Director Tisdale reported for
the Finance and Planning Committee, only you can substitute Performance. And I don't mean to be glib,
but the fact of the matter is we had a work plan that was based on quarterly meetings with the
Performance Committee. In fact, we will probably be meeting on a monthly basis and have a lot of work to
do on the work plan, but it will reflect that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Moving on to the Operations and Safety
Committee report-- Committee Chair, Whitmore, do you have anything that you would like to report
regarding the Operations and Safety Committee?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Very briefly, we did have a short meeting, but a good discussion on personnel
issues and people power challenges. And those are very important that we continue to stay on top of
those-- so appreciated Miss Peggy's report and our discussion. Additionally, we have, as you all know, a
lot of work to do on the work plan.
And so we look forward to going through the list of ideas submitted by a number of my colleagues and
others. And we'll move forward with that-- so a lot of work to do. That's all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Whitmore. Much appreciated. All right.

We will move on to the approval of Board meeting minutes and the Committee reports. The Board and
Committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors for the
minutes to be approved this evening? Yes, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. For the-- apologize-- packet for January, I believe it is, I am
recorded as a no vote for the work plans. I was a yes vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Kroll, it looks like you had-- go ahead, please.
JACK KROLL: If you would just kindly ask for a motion and a second to approve the minutes, and then
we can-ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: My apologies. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Bouquet has the motion. Broom is the second. Yes. Thank you for the question,
Director Ruscha. I just would like to ask the Board Office, can you please confirm the correction?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Mr. Chair. We will make the correction.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. With that correction being made, unless there is an objection-- and I
should have stated the motion more clearly-- the approval for the minutes will be for the following
meetings-- the January 30, 2024 Board meeting, the February 13, 2024 Finance and Planning
Committee, the February 14, 2024 Operations and Safety Committee, the February 15, 2024 Audit
Committee, the February 22, 2024 Executive Committee. Again, the motion was Bouquet, the second
was Broom, with the adjustment being made as per Director Ruscha's request correcting the record. Is
there any further discussion with respect to these minutes?
All right. Seeing none, I will now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action with the
adjustment as per Director Ruscha's note? Seeing none. With 14 Directors currently present-- I'm sorry.
JAIME LEWIS: I just want to abstain because I wasn't part of any of those meetings, so I will abstain.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. So seeing 14 Directors present, we have 13 aye votes, one
abstention, and one absent. The motion will pass. With that, we'll now move on to the Chair's report. We
are late in the meeting here, so I will keep this very brief and shorten up what I had planned to share.
As we all know, it has been quite the busy month here. A couple of things I will call attention to-- we do
have an item coming up on the agenda, which is a recommended action to consider a support position on
SB 32. I thought I would share that I did have the opportunity in this past month to participate and listen in
on testimony in support of SB 32.
I would just like to note for Directors, I think the most notable part of that testimony-- although I'm certainly
grateful to all those who have testified-- was hearing from some young folks who took time to come out

and testify for that. Of course, SB 32 is the bill contemplating methods to increase use of transit. And for
us, what that means includes funding for Zero Fare for Better Air and Zero Fare for Youth.
It was very meaningful to see youth use their voice, show up, and testify to the legislature. Likewise, we
heard some very compelling testimony from the Denver Public Schools regarding the nexus of transit and
truancy. And it was a nice moment to remember what all of this is about, and who all of this is for, and
watching the next generation advocate for themselves and their future.
This past month, I've had numerous meetings with members of the legislature who have taken quite an
interest in RTD. This has been an opportunity to discuss where RTD is, what our challenges are, and
dialogue about who we are as an agency. As it's probably no surprise to individuals here, I have taken
that opportunity to share information about our finances.
Again, very fortunate-- after a lot of hard work, we are short-term and mid-term financially stable. That is
exceptional in the world of US transit agencies. But our long and mid-term is challenged, and we are in a
need in a time when we need our policymakers and our partners to take a look at this agency and help
us. This has been an opportunity to communicate facts, such as the fact that RTD-- or Colorado, rather-ranks 44th in the nation for state funding going into transit.
This has also been a chance to dialogue about our workforce challenges as there is an interest to look at
policy at the state level to assist in workforce matters. I have had the opportunity to share some of the
unique challenges that RTD has in serving its customers, including, of course, challenges with retaining
our operators when they're operating in a very challenging environment and facing tremendous workplace
violence and working on behalf of all of us despite those challenges. So this has been a chance to share
some of that with our policymakers as well as to share some of the specific challenges the agency has
around identifying certain types of talent-- maintenance of way being one particularly notable one given
that we are the only intermodal transit agency in the state and need some very specialized skills that may
not already reside in the state of Colorado.
It has also been a chance to talk about how our system is funded, that we are a taxpayer and customerfunded system and discuss, again, what some of the challenges are. Most notably most immediately, as
we are all aware, TABOR is something that we all feel coming down upon us in the very near future. So
I've welcomed that opportunity to dialogue. Understand there is forthcoming legislation contemplating
transit reform and governance. Certainly, we will continue the discussion here among us Directors and
with our policymakers around the challenges the agency faces in how to address those.
Speaking to the issue of TABOR, I'd like to highlight I also had a chance to participate in more than one
meeting of the Revenue Diversification Working Group, which is a staff-led group that formed out of a
discussion that came from this Board in the 2023 retreat. And we have had some further discussion
around consolidating the discovery of that particular group around past efforts to look at revenue
diversification efforts around characterizing our short and long-term financial position and looking at what
may or may not move the needle in terms of financial opportunities. And there has been discussion as
well around quantifying the TABOR impact and better understanding what some of our mitigation
strategies may be.
At the forthcoming March 12, 2024 Finance and Planning Committee meeting, I will dialogue with our
Committee Chair Tisdale about expanding the format of the revenue diversification working group update
to actually provide a presentation to summarize where we are and what steps are forthcoming with
regards to investigation of revenue diversification opportunities and, most immediately, presenting
findings, and recommendations, and next steps with respect to TABOR and mitigating its impact.

Finally, speaking of the retreat that we had in 2023, this past weekend, this Board, as we all know, did
have the 2024 retreat. I thank all of the Directors for their participation. We had a particularly robust and
lengthy discussion with respect to agency performance metrics, which is something the Performance
Committee has been working on.
We had a dialogue around our strategic priorities, and our strategic plan, and how to measure and
answer questions that constituents and customers have. So for example, on the areas of service delivery,
we talked about how lagging indicators might be our on-time performance. And leading indicators that
may feed into that would include staff availability, as well as staffing levels, vehicle availability, and levels.
On the area of financial success, we discussed how we can use lagging metrics such as operating
expenses per unlinked passenger trip to gain an understanding of how our operational expenses are
being expended and how leading indicators that work into that include things like looking at our asset life
cycle costs, our budget variability, and so forth.
I look forward to working in with the Performance Committee members led by our Committee Chair Catlin
and Vice Chair Guissinger as we now work to assemble the feedback that the Board provided during that
discussion and put forward a proposal from Performance Committee with respect to agency performance
metrics that this Board can use to garner a better understanding of how to measure agency success in a
way that we can, of course, communicate with our customers and constituents.
Finally, I would just like to thank everybody for their participation this evening and the robust discussion
and the questions that came up around Front Range Passenger Rail. And I just will emphasize a point
that came up at the end of the discussion there that I would encourage Directors interested in that to
please use the opportunity that there are public meetings of the Board of the Front Range Passenger Rail
District to please participate and listen in. With that, I thank you all for your patience, and we'll move on
from the Chair's report, and we'll now gladly hand the floor over to our General Manager and Chief
Executive Officer, Debra Johnson, to share her report with us for this month. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening. And to all Board members and to
those that are assembled, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO, is introduced. This evening, I will
share a few highlights and endeavors that I have partaken in since our last regularly scheduled Board
meeting of January 30. And as I do, going forward, this report will be centered around our strategic
priorities and capturing our strategic initiatives based on Back to Basics, People Power, and a Welcoming
Transit Environment.
Starting with community value, Mr. Chair, you already commented on Senate Bill 32 and recognizing
that's forthcoming on the agenda. I will not delve into that but would echo your sentiments in seeing so
many people advocate for access to, I would say, enhancements in public transportation clearly with the
Nexus as it relates to our younger generations. People can't take advantage of an public education if they
don't have a means to access said opportunities and was glad to hear as well that Denver Public Schools
did see a trend in reference to truancy being improved, that is.
As it relates to another element under community value, having been appointed in 2023 to serve on the
American Public Transportation Associations and FTA's Bus Manufacturing Task Force focused on clean
bus manufacturing, on Tuesday, February 6 and Wednesday, February 7, I traveled to Washington, DC to
participate in a White House roundtable on clean bus manufacturing. And delegates from the BidenHarris Administration, representatives from APTA, as well as FTA and executives from eight other transit
agencies in addition to RTD and original equipment manufacturers had an opportunity to engage about
some of the obstacles we currently have relative to procurement and best practices. And more so, we

talked about the Nexus with the upcoming Olympic games that are scheduled to be held in Los Angeles
in 2028 because it's really about America's games and how supply chain issues and manufacturing
industry perspectives feed into that as we go forward and clearly recognizing that, in the Southern
California basin, that diesel buses can't be used-- what can be done collectively around the country to
help support those efforts.
On Monday, February 12, I, along with Director Bouquet, and Chief Fitzgerald, and other command staff
from RTD PD, as well as Michael Davies-- we engaged in a study session convened by the Parker town
council during which participants collectively discussed the town's transit needs and options to expand
service delivery in the vicinity, talked about the partnership program and other elements relative to how
might we address greater mobility options for that area of the district.
Over the weekend on February 16th to the 18th, I traveled to Savannah, Georgia to attend the APTA
CEO seminar. And part of the seminar, which is intended for transit agency CEOs and Deputy CEOs, only
provides a unique opportunity for transit leaders to discuss management policy and quality-of-life issues
relative to their respective agencies. This year's program focused on many of the critical challenges
facing the industry and the CE-suite, including transit ridership, this transition to zero emission, fleets,
reining in capital costs, labor, bus procurement challenges, and positioning the industry for success.
During the course of the seminar, I led a panel discussion on the challenges and opportunities related to
procuring and deploying zero-emission buses. Dawn Barnes, the CEO of Foothill Transit in Greater Los
Angeles, specifically West Covina and former APTA Chair, as well as Jessica Medford Miller, CEO of
Valley Metro and Phoenix, and then Carl Gant, Manager Director of the Champaign-Urbana Mass Transit
District all participated.
On the morning of February 18, I got to say, it really was the highlight of the seminar for me. I was able to
facilitate a discussion session related to the role of the Deputy CEO. The panelists were all former Deputy
CEOs, including myself, who have advanced to become Chief Executives, and the discussion was very,
very engaging. We had Sean Donaghy from C-TRAN, which serves Vancouver Washington, who is set to
become the new CEO at North County Transit in Greater San Diego County, India Birdsong Terry from
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, Michelle Bouchard from Caltrain, which is the Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board in the Greater San Francisco Bay Area, and then Nadine Lee, who is the
CEO from Dallas Area Rapid Transit.
This coming Thursday, February 29, I, along with members of staff, will travel to Littleton to meet with the
Mayor as well as members of the City Council and the city's Transportation and Mobility Board to engage
in dialogue and discuss shared goals as relates to RTD's strategic initiatives of Back to Basics, People
Power, and Welcoming Transit Environment.
Related to customer service, downtown Boulder Station, as has been communicated to this body and
covered in the media on Monday, February 19 following a year-long closure, the Boulder Station
reopened. A lot of the work basically improved it. But as we all know, the closure was due to residue from
illicit substances found in the station's restroom.
Moving forward, relating to employee ownership, on Thursday, February 8, I participated in the WTS
Colorado Awards Gala held in Denver's ballpark neighborhood as a member of the WTS International
Board of Directors. I was encouraged to see several RTD employees in attendance as I believe
individuals can reap tremendous professional development benefits and garner lasting business
relationships through participation in the organization. As previously reported to the Board on
Wednesday, February 14, the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment held an election

determined whether eligible transit police officers and corporals would be represented by the Fraternal
Order of Police Lodge number 72 for purposes of collective bargaining.
On the following day, Thursday, February 15, the General Counsel's Office received formal notification
that the election results would certify that the eligible voters elected to form a collective bargaining unit.
Labor Relations staff, with support from RTD PD command staff as well as General Counsel's Office, will
work with the FOP to negotiate and implement a first-time collective bargaining agreement for the agency
in conjunction with FOP lodge 72. Now, this will create an additional labor unit in addition to the
Amalgamated Transit Union local 10-01.
And lastly, related to People Power strategic initiatives, RTD was recently awarded a first-place Ad Will
advertising award from the American Public Transportation Association for the agency's military
recruitment campaign. Ad Will honors the most creative and effective marketing campaigns in the transit
industry by system size. The military recruitment campaign highlights the unique contributions of the
agency's military veteran employees.
And the first-place Ad Will winners go on to compete for the Ad Will grand prize at the APTA annual
meeting, or what is now known as Transform. And I want to congratulate Chief Communications
Engagement Officer Stuart Summers and his team for bringing back this prestigious award to the agency.
And last but not least, I extend a warm personal welcome to the incoming Federal Transit administration's
acting administrator Veronica Vanterpool, who took the reins of the Administration effective yesterday,
Monday, February 26, after having served as Deputy FTA administrator since 2021. Acting administrator
Vanterpool will further the causes of equity climate innovation safety and workforce development. Just for
you all that may not be familiar with acting Administrator Vanterpool, she joined FTA after being the Chief
Development Officer at the Delaware Transit Corporation. She also served in a capacity at the New York
City-based Tri-State Transportation Campaign, and she was also a Board member of the New York
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
And then I'd like to end to say congratulations also to my friend, mentor, former colleague, and my
sorority sister of the illustrious Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Incorporated, Nuria Fernandez, who, this past
Friday, February 24, retired from her position as Administrator. And I would just like to acknowledge for
the record the impact of her leadership on the transportation industry is immeasurable, and she has
touched the lives of countless individuals with whom she has worked in her decades as a public servant.
And with that, Mr. Chair, I conclude my report and yield the floor. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, very much appreciate the report. We
will move forward in the agenda to our recommended-- I'm sorry-- to unanimous consent just to note that
there are no unanimous consent items on the agenda this evening. So we will move to our recommended
action portion of the agenda. There are two recommended actions on the agenda tonight listed-- actions
A and B. The first action A is for the Senate Bill 24-032, support position. This is for the Board of Directors
to adopt a support position on Senate Bill 24-032, otherwise known as SB 32, Methods to Increase
Transit. Do I hear a motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved-- second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard the movement as Ruscha and the second as Rosenthal. Is there any
discussion on this matter at this time? I'd also like to invite Mr. Michael Davies, if you'd like to come up
and join us. Was there anything that you had planned to share, sir, before I open the floor for discussion?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair. Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. I know the Board is
very familiar with the bill, so I'll defer to you if you want a presentation, but I'm happy to answer any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, thank you. Thank you for being available for questions, Mr. Davies, very much
appreciate it. I think I saw a hand over this way. Yes, Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I just wanted to say that I'm very strongly in support of this bill, and I
think that if you look at the-- what does it say about RTD and other transit agencies-- but obviously we're
here with RTD-- it shows a stamp of approval, a sense of confidence in what I would consider the most
audited, the most accountable, and one of the most pro-labor and best-run, in my opinion, agencies in the
state where we have challenges that I look forward to looking-- working with the Legislature to help us
with. And so with that, I'm certainly very strongly in support and why I seconded the motion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal, very much appreciate it. Yes, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a question for-- this might be for GM/CEO and council if
that's OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So last year, we included youth who rode paratransit in our free fares.
And I was wondering if that is something we will continue in the future, either as a matter of policy and,
more directly, just for council, if RTD feels like that would be required under current FTA guidance.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for the question. And keeping in mind that
we provide transit services, we would not be picking and choosing what modalities are eligible for Zero
Fare for Youth. That would be discriminatory in practice from my perspective. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I agree. That would be discriminatory. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. I see
Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. One question for Mr. Davies-- if you look at page
73 of the packet regarding the Exploratory Committee, in lines 3 and 4 of the packet, it addresses the
composition of the Committee and says that the Committee will include three representatives from the five
largest transit agencies in the state. Am I correct in reading that that RTD might not be included on the
exploratory committee looking at a statewide transit pass? Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director Tisdale. In discussions with the bill drafters on that topic, it
is their intent that RTD would be on that committee and participate on that committee. When raised, the
bill drafter did not want to specifically call out RTD. And beyond that, I don't know exactly what the
thinking there was, but it was certainly the bill drafter's intent to have RTD participate in any committee
that gets established on that topic.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Director Tisdale, any follow up?
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's fine. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Other questions, discussion? Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just to clarify-- Mr. Davies, when you say bill drafter, do you mean bill sponsor or
literally bill drafter?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Sorry. Thank you for the clarification-- the bill sponsor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. All right. Not seeing any further discussion. I will ask, are there any no
votes on this action? Seeing none. With 14 Directors present, the motion will carry with 14 aye votes and
one absent.
The next action-- and thank you, Mr. Davies, for joining us up here. The next action is item B. This is for
the Board Meeting Accessibility Pilot Policy. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached Board
and Committee Meeting Accessibility Pilot Policy. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the motion as Secretary Guzman, the second as Treasurer Bouquet. At this
time, thank you, Mr. Kroll, for joining us here for this, and thank you certainly to you and to the members
of the staff who have helped put together this policy. I'll just move right to questions or any discussion that
we have on this. Do Directors have any questions for Mr. Kroll? Yes, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly-- and sorry to be picky about this, but
as one who uses assistive listening devices, it matters. If you look at page 94 and page 97 of the packet,
you will see a reference to "assisted listening devices," whereas the phrase is actually "assistive listening
devices." And I would just ask before we finalize the policy that we make that editorial change to correct.
Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I believe there's-- I see a lot of head nods-- no objection
to making that administrative adjustment. So with that adjustment being made, any further questions,
discussion, clarification? All right, seeing none.
I will ask for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none. Once again, this will pass with
14 aye votes and one absent.

We will move on to the discussion item portion of our agenda this evening. There are two discussion
items on the agenda. The first is the near-term Downtown Denver rail reconstruction project. At this time,
General Manager and Chief Executive Officer Debra Johnson, I will turn over the floor to you to ask if you
would please introduce this item and discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair-- Debra Johnson, once again, General
Manager and CEO. I will provide a presentation relative to the near-term Downtown rail reconstruction
project.
And Stuart Summers will be providing some information relative to our public awareness and
communications efforts. If I could request of the Board to hold questions, and we'll be more than happy to
field questions. I would be remiss not to state that immediately following this presentation is a
presentation being provided by Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service Planning, as there is a
clear-cut nexus and reference to what's anticipated relative to service disruptions that correlate with the
service changes that are forthcoming for the May service change.
OK, they told me to point this way, so just humor me.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, look at that. All right. So clearly, I'm going to talk about state of good repair,
provide you an overview of the project in and of itself, recognizing that the element that's taking place this
summer is one of the first phases, which we believe is a critical phase, talk about service impacts, and
then Mr. Summers will move forward and talk about the communications and outreach endeavors.
So before I launch into the presentation and the details, it's important to highlight how this program
actually came to be. So as we talk about state of good repair, it's a word that we've heard a lot about.
Clearly, it was the genesis of the bipartisan infrastructure law because the I is very important there as it
relates to Infrastructure, recognizing that this country hasn't invested a lot in its infrastructure.
And not to mention, as we look at where we are as a transit agency, we're no different than any others
across the country. Decisions have been made as it relates to operating. But oftentimes, capital projects
and improvements were delayed-- just the nature of the beast in reference to trying to be things to all
entities and delivering service.
But more specifically, as we talk about transit agencies as a whole, RTD is no different relative to it being
an asset-intensive organization. And maintaining assets in a state of good repair is a critical effort for
several reasons. And first and foremost, it guarantees previous investments in the system remain intact,
supports operationally safe, accessible, and dependable services, and preserves investment in a reliable
transit infrastructure.
Now, we also know that the Federal Transit Administration, just back in 2018, effectuated regulations that
said that transit agencies had to have a transit asset management plan. And that's critically important
because, as I stated before, agencies were making different decisions relative to service delivery, but,
oftentimes, it's more or less that is not the cool thing to do as it relates to bringing forward maintaining the
assets. And so with that, RTD has leveraged this transit asset management plan. And you've heard me
say this in a couple of different arenas. As we look at changing our budgetary process relative to making
informed decisions based upon our strategic plan, it's incumbent upon us as we look at our transit asset
management plans as well to make those informed decisions as we go forward.

So it's important to note that RTD has more than $9 billion in fixed assets. And considering that the assets
inventory pursuant to any agency's TAM plan can range in cost from thousands to millions of dollars. And
they include things such as revenue vehicles, equipment, and other infrastructure components.
And agencies must employ analytical processes or tools to assess capital assets investment. And that's
what we're doing going forward. And you'll hear more about that throughout the course of our budget
development relative to our upcoming budget for 2025.
Now, recognizing that, the rail segment in downtown Denver that will undergo reconstruction in the near
term is one such prioritized asset. There we go. So I know there were comments earlier during the public
comment section. I think it's important to provide some context because this project is the first of its kind
for RTD, recognizing that our rail network is relatively new.
We're not BTA that has the oldest rail line in the history of this country. We're not the San Francisco
Municipal Transportation Agency that has transit lines that have been in existence for 110 years. We
have assets that are 30 years old, and we need to focus on that to ensure that we can maintain said
assets for an additional 30 years going forward.
And so although the agency has conducted routine maintenance aspects that we qualify as a project,
those have been targeted in reference to certain aspects of the rail being replaced as opposed to a
comprehensive undertaking. And the reason why I oppose this in such the manner we have to keep in
mind that maintenance efforts of this nature will be disruptive, but this is par for the course when we talk
about where we are as a transit agency. Hence, before, prior to the TAM being introduced by the FTA, a
lot of agencies were a little gun shy about doing that because of the impacts of service delivery.
And I come from a place where I've been at agencies where we've made investments. And having to
ensure that we're engaging in an informed way with our constituencies and stakeholders for the
betterment of preservation of the system going forward, I believe, is paramount and warranted. And while
this is the first such project-- as I qualified, recognizing that we're about 30 years-- it certainly will not be
the last. This is the first of many, recognizing that we've crossed over that threshold into three decades of
service delivery on the light rail side of the house.
And so this is no different, just for everybody's edification. And I may be looking over at our First Vice
Chair Catlin having had past experience working at CDOT. It's no different from investments in a highway
infrastructure considering that the interstate system came to be in the Eisenhower era in the '50s, and
there's a lot of work that has been done on highways. It's the same nature of that when you think about
there's impacts, there's road closures, there's detours, but it's for the betterment of moving people in a
safe and efficient manner.
So now I'll delve into more specifically how we have come to be. So recognizing on Friday, October 17,
1994-- and when I was doing a little research it was on a crisp fall day-- RTD held a ribbon cutting and
inaugurated the first light rail line in the region. Following that commencement celebration, the line was
placed into Revenue Service on October 9. Shortly thereafter, five years later, our closest neighbor
relative to being in this region-- or region, I would say, geographic area-- UTA opened their Trax line in
December of 1999.
And so as we look at where we are, it was the only light rail system-- only line in the light rail system at
that time. And the letter-naming convention would come later as this line became known as the D line
because it was Downtown Denver. And it traversed the heart of the Downtown. And at that time, the
entire corridor stretched from 30th and Downing to I-25, which was 5.3 miles in total.

So let's fast forward. Now we are a light rail network of more than 60 miles of track that service by 200
light rail vehicles with 57 stations. Now, the Downtown loop-- and there's various takeaways on that slide
before you, but I just want to hone in on a few.
The Downtown loop is a component of RTD's inaugural light rail line, as I stated. And it's located primarily
in the central business district. But also, it's served now by the D, the H, and the L lines.
And one thing that's very important-- and I want to point out the photographs that are on that screen
because we have paved track, and then we have the open ballasted track, and that's very important. And
I'm going to delve into that a little bit because it's very important as we note how we have our service
delivery from a light rail perspective operating.
Trains operate in street running fashion, meaning that there is no fixed guideway. And when I say fixed
guideway, I mean that that is solely for the means of public transport with its dedicated right of way. So
recognizing what we're trying to do here is preserve our rail network going forward for an additional 30
years, as I indicated.
You have to keep in mind, under that paved track, there are utilities, such as electricity, gas, water lines
that are running underneath the existing paved track. Hence, all of that has to be reconstructed as we
think about where we're going. Later in the presentation, I'll show you a cross-section, and we'll walk
through exactly what that will entail.
So I know there's been questions that I've received talking about what we have done previously in
reference to projects and how is this differ once again. So RTD has spent $19 million on 17 isolated rail
maintenance activities or projects in the Downtown area in the last 12 years. Now, keeping in mind, $19
million is certainly a lot of money for any one individual.
It is for me. I wouldn't be sitting here presenting this to you if I had $19 million. Let's just keep it real on
that front.
So when we talk about maintaining a rail network, $19 million is not a lot of money. And so as we move
forward and we talk about these isolated projects that took place over a period of time, it was the
decisions that were made relative to let's keep this railroad moving, but it wasn't done in the manner in
which we could do that preservation for 30 years to come. During those previous projects/maintenance
efforts, crews replaced targeted segments of curved rail, some tracks, and switches, and other
infrastructure, but not the full-depth reconstruction.
So now let's talk about that a little bit. So clearly, this project was prioritized to maintain our assets in a
state of good repair. Because of service-related wear and degradation due in part to de-icing chemicals
used on the roadway, we have to ensure that we are meeting the state of good repair relative to what's
defined as the design life. And we're trying to do that, as I keep repeating, another 30 years. I'm going to
keep saying that over and over again because that is important to stress.
Now, phase 1 of this project involves full-depth reconstruction [SNEEZING] of-- bless you-- of five
intersections of the Downtown loop, which I'll outline in just a moment. And then, there will be additional
phases-- 2, 3, and 4 in 2025. Now, the numbering of the phases does not necessarily correspond to the
order in which they'll be done, but we wanted to qualify the importance and call out the specific sections
of rail that will be reconstructed.

So recognizing that when you all approved the fiscal year 2024 budget in November 2023, we came
before you and asked for $152 million. We did not know the cost of the projects. But one thing I do want
to share with you all-- I mentioned in my General Manager's report that I was at the APTA CEO seminar.
And what was really interesting-- I remember this-- on Saturday afternoon, we had Peter Rogoff, who was
a former Federal Transit Administrator and also the immediate past-- not immediate past anymore-- but
he was the CEO of Sound Transit. Discussions ensued relative to where we are in the construction
industry as it relates to investing in infrastructure and state of good repair.
In reference to the labor market, supply chain, and a myriad of different issues, we have clearly seen that
there has been an uptick in reference to being able to hone in on the cost of projects. Case in point, I
remember just earlier in this evening, somebody referenced PATH, being the Port Authority for the Trans
Hudson, i.e. the system that crosses over into Manhattan, and recognizing that New Jersey Transit and
Amtrak utilizes the Hudson Tunnel.
That is in the midst of being reconstructed. That project's cost has increased by more than 50%, the
reason being supply chain. And so I'm providing that context so there is a global understanding of where
we are as it relates to what's happening because contractors are taking on a lot of risk as they go forward.
Another such project that had a nearly 30% increase is LA Metro's San Fernando line. It used to be the
Santa Ana. They renamed it. But that project saw increases, and that's because there's not a lot of
contractors that are readily available to do the work. And then, once again, they're taking on all the risk
because agencies typically don't make progress payments.
I provide that context because I know that number looks as if it's sticker shock, but what we were doing is
bringing forward to you all requesting an appropriation as we go forward. So with that, I wanted to share
that as it relates to the cost that we are expected to incur, the capital replacement fund that will be
replenished as sales and use tax collections as well as utilizing our formula and discretionary dollars. And
when I say formula dollars, I'm talking about the monies we get from the Federal Transit Administration
for preventative maintenance.
I'm also talking about previous funds that we were able to get through a discretionary aspect, which were
known as earmarks. We're still in the state of limbo relative to a continuing resolution as it relates to the
federal government, and we'll see what happens at midnight on Friday going forward. But we do have
those dollars readily available to us. And quite naturally, as we talk about state of good repair, the Transit
Asset Management Plan that I keep referencing are included in the agency's financial forecast and also in
the mid-term financial plan that, forthcoming, will be as we look at it in the near term in the next couple of
months, the five-year financial forecast.
So as I shared with you in a previous slide, I want to spend a little time here as we talk about what this
entails. So just to orient you quickly, there's the actual photograph where you can see the paved track
and then this wonderful color graphic. And so if I call your attention to the red rectangular box, that's the
concrete tie. Now, a concrete railroad tie is similar to the wooden ties that people may be more familiar
with, but that's critically important as we talk about what that means as we deliver transit services.
The light-blue rectangular box is the track ballast. Now, this is the material which forms the track bed
upon which railroad ties are laid. It's packed between, below, and around the ties, and it's used to bear
the compression of the railroad ties, the rails, and the actual welding stock.
And that's critically important when you think about 30 years. Not to mention, in those intersections,
there's been vehicular travel-- vehicular traffic, rather-- traversing those intersections as well. And there

are also used that track ballast to facilitate drainage and keep vegetation that can compromise the
integrity of the combined track structure.
That dark-blue rectangular box, the subballast-- that's the layer used to distribute the loads from the
ballast to the subgrade as well as to mitigate climate-based subgrade problems because keeping in mind
here, as we saw, it was nearly 70 degrees yesterday. And this morning, I was thinking, what is
happening? I'm not built for this. So my point is think about what's happening to our rail infrastructure as
well.
And then rounding out the green, which is the duct bank. Now, that's the underground reinforcement
concrete-- it could be a metal container-- that basically is housing all the utility lines. And so when you
think about what's beneath there, we're talking about those different elements that are critically important
because we have not touched those before.
So now let's talk. I want to transition really quickly and orient you to the project solicitations. And so while
they're not numbered, there's five listed on the screen. We have a request for proposal for downtown rail
reconstruction, project legal services to an RFP for reconstruction for the five intersections-- now, these
are all the current ones-- 3, RFQ, which we would qualify as a request for qualifications for project
management service consultants; 4, a request for information, which is critically important; and 5, the last
one, design build project.
Now, these solicitations have been shared with the Board via the Board briefing documents. But I'm
calling these out as we talk about the questions, which I know I have fielded and others have had relative
to what will come forward to the Board relative to the delegation of authority. And this outlines basically
what we are doing relative to the competitive solicitation which was approved by the Board in 2022-- not
the competitive solicitations, but the delegation of authority relating to those competitive solicitations.
And so recognizing that the request for proposal for legal services, I want to qualify that was done with
the support of General Counsel as we make informed decisions relative to how best we go about this,
recognizing that we don't have perhaps that subject matter expertise internal to the organization relative
to a construction project such as this. What we endeavor to do with the contract for project management
and support and consulting services-- that would come forward to this body for your consideration either
March or April. And I say "either," recognizing that it's in the current evaluation stage trying to discern who
might be the victor in that competitive solicitation.
And as we talk about the request for best practices, that's why we did the RFI, recognizing we want to
garner an understanding throughout the industry about how we go about the last project, the design build
project, which hasn't been initiated because that request for information is going to inform how we go
about creating a solicitation and how best that should be done.
Now let's delve into the first phase of the near-term project. Let me go back one slide. OK, there we go.
So the full-depth reconstruction of the intersection-- so as I stated before, we're looking at these five
intersections to be reconstructed. There's two on Stout, two on California, and one at Broadway and
Welton. And you'll see that depicted on the next slide in just a moment.
I want you all to know that staff has been coordinating with the City and County of Denver to discuss
three closures and develop traffic detour plans more specifically with the Department of Transportation
and Infrastructure. And I can attest I have personally coordinated and spoken to the Chief Projects Officer
in the Mayor's Office regarding our efforts and what's forthcoming and additionally have connected our

Chief Communications Officer with the Chief Projects Officer and the Mayor's Office. So there is
coordination relative to lessening the impacts and how might we capitalize on efficiencies if there's other
work that the City and County of Denver needs to undertake during that time period. And the Chief
Communications Officer Stuart will share information in greater detail momentarily.
Moving forward to this next slide, this showcases the work that will be sequenced such that not all the
intersections will be impacted at the same time. But these photographs showcase what the 1 through 5
depicts on the map. And it's important to note that vehicular traffic will be able to travel through these
areas while the work is underway.
And so really quickly, as I briefly introduce the next three phases to you all, it's important to note that
these phases, as I said before, do not denote priority, and the latter phases are scheduled to commence
and be completed in 2025. And we will be bringing updates to this body quite naturally so you're aware of
that.
So really quickly, for this phase, this will entail rail segments in the areas between the intersections-those five intersections I just talked about. We will be doubling back in 2025 to replace the rail in those
intersections, and that will be reconstructed in 2025. This will impact, again, the D, H, and L lines, but
you'll receive more information on that in just a moment.
Then, recognizing the next phase, the project team comprised of RTD staff and contractors will develop
strategies for these construction phases over the course of the year, with work taking place in 2025. And
that goes back to us as staff or we as staff, I should say, leveraging our request for information and
determining the best path forward once we're able to retain the services of a third-party contractor to help
us determine the best path forward relative to these phases that we have here. So it's important to note
that the full-depth reconstruction as it relates to Colfax will take place along a segment of track that runs
parallel to that arterial. And this work does not include segments of track near the Colorado Convention
Center as they were the subject of recent targeted repairs in that area.
And then as we look at Welton-- again, a full-depth reconstruction of track along the Welton corridor
between Welton and Broadway, the intersection in 30th and Downing. Now, the high blocks will be
replaced at the platform since there will be service impacts to the L line, as I stated. And this is a perfect
segue to the next portion of the presentation, because this is about the service impacts.
I will just speak briefly to this because you'll hear from Mr. Carter within a matter of minutes. but want it to
be clear that both the D and H lines will be rerouted during the reconstruction work and terminate at
Denver Union Station during this period of time. The L line will be suspended for the duration of phase 1,
and customers can utilize route 43 bus service as an alternative. And as I said, Mr. Carter can go into
greater detail about that.
The bus route and rail line changes will align with the May service changes, and that's why it's critical that
we're doing in this fashion because it enables us to have a schedule. We learned from last year when we
did the coping panels project that we can't just Institute quick fixes or a detour. What we're doing
intentionally is incorporating this into the schedule, so we're managing the customer's expectations as we
go forward.
And Stuart will talk about the media aspect that we will leverage. But I want to stress that we will be
preparing materials that Stuart will touch upon, but this will give all of you all as Directors the opportunity
to speak with elected officials and constituents in the areas that you represent because, while this may be
Downtown Denver, we keep in mind that we have intermodal hubs in Downtown Denver, which are

paramount to the entire transportation network. And suffice it to say, it's important to communicate early
and frequently about the impact of this.
And with that, I will showcase really quickly the impact of bus routes. As I said before, Jessie will cover
those momentarily. But I want to note that these bus routes will not all be impacted at the same time due
to the sequencing of the intersection construction.
And more so, as we work with staff to finalize traffic detours-- consultant staff, that is, and contractors-- as
you can see on that bullet on that slide, the traffic detour plans and street closure timelines will be
finalized in late spring. And that's working in conjunction quite naturally with our partners at The
Department of Transportation and Infrastructure for City and County of Denver. And so with that, I will
segue to Stuart.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Good evening, Chair Davidson and members of the Board. My name is
Stuart Summers. I'm the Chief Communications and Engagement-- oh, you're not going to run the
clicker? Oh, thanks.
[LAUGHTER]
OK-- Chief Communications Engagement Officer. I just want to take a minute and talk a little bit about our
communication and outreach plan. As you all are aware, communication is key to any successful project
and ensuring that our customers and the public are well aware of the impact and what this means for
them.
I won't go through all these goals. But first and foremost, I just want to point out that customers have been
the focal point of everything we're doing. All of our communications center back to our customers, what
their needs are, and how we make sure that the information resonates with them, and getting the
information to them early in advance of the disruptions, and so they can make adjustments to their
schedule as needed.
We're breaking up our campaign into four different categories. The first is owned media. These are things
that RTD's assets and collateral-- the things that we own that we have control over.
On the slide, it says that in March 2024, RTD will launch a project page. I met with our team earlier this
afternoon ahead of this meeting, and I'm happy to say that project page will go live tomorrow. And so that
will be shared out here with the Board of Directors.
The online toolkit is available currently in English, with Spanish coming later, probably within the next
week. But hopefully, by March 1, we'll have everything translated into Spanish. And then in March, the
web page also available in English, Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, and then we have Russian coming on
board in about two weeks.
We have a plan for physical signage at all of the impacted stations on our vehicles, service alerts in
multiple languages that will be going out well ahead of the project. We're developing scripts for our
Telephone Information Center-- so when people call in with questions-- FAQs, talking points, preparing
assets for all of our stakeholders, our TMAs and our TMO so that they can help us with the
communications. Also audio announcements at our station platforms and on vehicles so that individuals
will be able to hear the announcements as well as the physical signage. And then ensuring that we have
a comprehensive social media strategy and plan.

Also starting next week, I, along with our staff, will go out to about 20 of the metro area newsrooms and
media organizations to meet with each of them one-on-one. The goal of this is to talk about this
downtown project to give them information, provide them with the toolkit, things like B-roll video,
illustrations maps, graphics, talking points, scripts so that they can help us with disseminating that
information to their viewers and their readers.
We also have a news release that will be going out tomorrow to start announcing this program. And then
our cadence will be continual news releases, advisories, and updates in multiple languages frequently
throughout the entire duration of the project through September. And then also, I will serve as a
spokesperson for this project so that we can make sure that we're being out and proactive about follow-up
questions and inquiries.
A paid media strategy-- so we will have a bilingual paid media campaign that will launch in early May. We
will be purchasing advertising on streaming services, digital, social, broadcast radio, traditional print
media-- really trying to segment those audiences, make sure that everyone is well aware of what this
project is, what the impact is, and what services are still available and how people can still navigate the
system.
And then we also have our community engagement outreach strategy. So during the months of March
and April, we already have about a dozen meetings that are in the planning stages that will be along
impacted lines. Then, in May, June, July, August, September, we'll continue those meetings as we start to
put those schedules together.
Meetings will be held in English and Spanish. We'll have a Spanish interpreter at all those meetings as
well. We'll bring subject matter experts to those meetings so that questions can be answered, concerns
that people may have can be addressed. And then also, the information that's shared during those
meetings can be brought back to the project team.
One thing I'm excited about is we also have employees-- RTD employees who will be volunteering at
stops and stations to support customers during peak service times and during large events that will be
happening around the metro area. We're calling it our Impact Team, and these are volunteers here from
RTD that will be going out.
They'll have information about service alerts. They can provide wayfinding information. They can help
customers purchase their fare, answers about just the project in general. And this will just be a really nice
touch point and some proactive customer service, especially at peak times.
I won't spend too much time on this slide, but this just shows you an overview, a snapshot of our timeline.
Our real focus is a continual cadence of communications starting now in March and then really ramping
up in late April, early May, and then continuing through the duration of the project with continual updates.
And then the last thing I'll just focus on-- as you're all aware, we've been talking about the 30 year-- how
old the system is. We are starting to already plan a 30-year anniversary celebration that will take place on
October 7, 2024 for two goals. First will be to obviously celebrate the 30th anniversary of light rail service.
And then secondly, we want to highlight the completion of the reconstruction of those five downtown
intersections. And so more information to come. Save the date. But that event will be happening
downtown at one of the light rail platforms. And with that, we're happy to answer questions.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the presentation. General Manager/CEO, does that complete
the presentation? Thank you for your portion. And Mr. Summers, thank you for joining us and presenting
yours as well.
I'll now open up the floor to Directors for questions and discussion. I see Director Rosenthal. Please, go
ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you to the General Manager/CEO and your entire
team for that very extensive and detailed presentation. I do have four questions, unfortunately-- more
than usual-- because of this really extensive and expensive project.
We heard some perspectives about what oversight means for this project. So perhaps you could fill us in
a little bit more what you believe is oversight, both of the contractors, the people who actually will be
performing the work on the tracks, but also from the Board to yourself and your team. So how would you
believe that we should be monitoring on this project?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the
question. So if I understood correctly, you asked, what oversight should the Board have, right? So
recognizing that the Board is the policy body and that you all should have an understanding of what's
happening as it relates to how we're investing taxpayer dollars, whether they be federal, local, or-- we
don't get anything from the state, so that's neither here nor there. But I think it's very important as we go
forward that you're apprised.
But also, I would say, as relates to where we are, there have been responsibilities delegated to me and
my role as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. And so basically, as it relates to that, for all
intents and purposes, we do have a professional staff. We have Jyotsna Vishwakarma and her team.
Jyotsna is a registered professional engineer, a civil engineer at that. And she is shepherding this as well,
recognizing that we are getting consultant help from a project management oversight aspect just due to
the fact that we aren't the same agency as we were 30 years ago when we were laser-focused on
building, building, building. So as it relates to where we, we are looking to retain the services of a third
party.
As I shared in different venues relative to where we are, we'll keep the Board engaged and provide
updates on a recurring basis as it relates to the start of the project, quite naturally. It's imperative that you
all know what's happening. And any type of element that needs the Board's involvement-- not
involvement-- I'll say, Board's notification, I commit to providing that information. I see this very analogous
to other aspects of projects that we had when we kept you apprised of the coping panel project and things
of the like.
And if it's this Board's pleasure, we can have additional conversations relative to the venue if it should be
the full Board meeting. Quite naturally, everybody's assembled, but I'm totally amenable to that. And I will
yield the floor back to the Chair to facilitate questions because if there's any other aspect of oversight,
that's up to the Board to decide collectively. But as it currently stands, I will adhere to the provisions that
have been specified relative to my role with the day-to-day operations of the organization. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the
question. I--

[AUDIO OUT]

PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. So my question is actually maybe outside of that discussion parameters
and more maybe what Denver needs to do in regards to small businesses and how they might be
impacted-- perhaps a discussion with DEDO, the Economic Development and Opportunity Office. And
again, that may be something that maybe Denver needs to do. But have you heard anything about that
kind of discussion? Because I can imagine that some of those small businesses might be impacted by the
construction.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Director Rosenthal. As a point of clarification, outside
of meeting with Amy Ford, the new Executive Director of DOTI, I have not directly spoken with DOTI staff.
I just wanted to qualify that has been members of my team. I have specifically spoken with the Chief
Projects Officer in the Mayor's Office, and we talked about those elements because it will be coordinated
quite naturally.
They need to ensure that they're apprising businesses. And so that's what's keen on the partnership and
communicating as soon as possible and frequently and providing that information, so they, in turn, can
share that information. RTD, quite naturally, as staff, we are quite nimble and agile to engage, and we'll
be leveraging those relationships to ensure that we're minimizing impacts and recognizing we don't have
the construction schedule readily available, keeping in mind with this first phase that intersections will be
over-- will be open, excuse me-- to vehicular traffic and the like, I would surmise that the impact may be
limited as it relates to those businesses in this first phase. But we will have a better understanding of
traffic detour plans and so forth as indicated in the spring.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. If I may, just for one moment, I was informed that we were having some
internet connectivity challenges. If I could confirm with the Board Office we're back live and recording.
Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal, please proceed.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. So you just mentioned and previously mentioned about vehicular traffic.
And how are our efforts underway to mitigate effects on pedestrian and bike traffic? So let's say, bicycle
lanes, sidewalks, things like that, and detours for pedestrians and bicycle traffic. And obviously, that's
more of maybe a DOTI question, but perhaps if you could share any plans on that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Rosenthal. That is
something we coordinate with the Department of Traffic and Infrastructure as we don't own that
infrastructure and have auspices over that right of way. That's why it's critically important as we develop
the plans that that's done in conjunction with the contractor team, as well as RTD, and the City and
County of Denver as they have to approve said plans since they have the auspices over those arterioles.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And then for my final question, you mentioned these impact teams,
these ambassadors, and it was indicated that they are volunteer. What does volunteer mean? Does that
mean that they are unpaid? Or does it just mean these are actual team members who are saying, hey, I
will help, but they will be paid during the time that they are assisting? And also, do we have team
members who are of that team who speak Spanish and other foreign languages?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Summers, please.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah. Thanks, Mr. Chair. And thanks for bringing up the impact team. So what
we're looking to do is similar to what we did when we had rail line openings. We had volunteer teams that
would go out and help assist customers with new stations and lines as they opened. So these would be
RTD employees.
This would be probably during some of their work hours, times that they'd already be on the clock, if you
will. We often use individuals from the Telephone Information Center, the TIC, that speak Spanish and
English in those outreach efforts. And so those will be part of this discussion and part of that leveraging.
We're still finalizing it. Our plan is to do the training in April and have them ready to go by the end of May.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Those are only questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Other questions from Directors? Yes, Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. So we are diverting D and H lines to Union during this
time, correct? During the reconstruction effot.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. And Mr. Carter will be presenting that momentarily.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I might wait for Mr. Carter then.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I might wait for Mr. Carter then after his presentation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, yeah. That's why I indicated that it's forthcoming. He's going to talk about those
service changes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I will wait. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm just curious-- out of the $19 million, are there dollars in there to
help account for extra buses and drivers that we're going to need to help mitigate the impact on the
community?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Lewis, for the question. So that $19 million I referenced were
previous monies that were spent over the course of the past 12 years. So as it relates to where we are
with the construction and of itself, going forward, as it relates to supplemental services and things of the
like, that's factored in as we look at what we have readily available.
Mr. Carter will talk about those impacts to our service delivery model. But those costs are factored in,
recognizing that when you do something of this nature, most of the money is within the schedule, so we're
going to account for that. Those dollars I talked about are capital dollars. And so as we talk about the
service mitigation, that's on the operating side, which has been factored in as we look at the service
change.
JAIME LEWIS: So in the-- may I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead, Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: So in the run board report, that we're going to hear, we're going to hear about some
possible additions of bus runs and drivers to be able to mitigate some of the issues that this project is
going to create?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That would be correct. You will see-- and I don't want to take this away-- but the
introduction that Mr. Carter will make-- that all comes into play. And in March, you will hear the Transit
Equity Analysis because recognizing where we are, it does meet the threshold of a 25% change. And
what that means is there are going to be additional services that are added to mitigate that going forward.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Other questions? Yes, sorry, Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. A project of this magnitude obviously is going to bring the potential for a
lot of change orders just by the nature of the project itself. You've got all kinds of infrastructure running
underneath the tracks.
The Water Board has water mains. Xcel Energy has gas and electric. There's also cable, and phone
lines, and that type of thing.
That leads to two problems. One is somebody doesn't know a line exists when the contractors begin
work, or we finished the job, and two years later, they're out there with their excavators cutting up the
improvements that we've just put in. Is there a coordinating committee that's going to sit down and keep
track of all this so that we don't get stuck with huge change orders?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Broom, for the
question. I appreciate it because that's the genesis for the request for information. What we're doing
intentionally is doing that request for information, so we can garner a better understanding of best
practices.

Utilizing that information, we're able to obtain from those individuals that present that information allows
us to have a plan going forward with the understanding that we want to mitigate. Quite naturally, when
you look at as built and things of the like, there's been a myriad of different elements that have changed in
the Downtown core, recognizing things that have been constructed. And 30 years ago, they were more or
less parking lots, so that's the intent behind that request for information.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. And then one other question-- and I should have got this in earlier-- but the
legislature in two weeks will be halfway done with this legislative session. I think it'd be behoove us to
have our lobbyists come in and give us a update on where we're at in this particular session, and what's
still outstanding, and what we need to be doing with our contacts to work on any of those outstanding bills
that need to be worked on.
And in particular, it would be nice to have some more information about the funding that's available at the
federal level that they were talking about earlier in the presentations, and how those will be split up, and
how much of it is already spoken for, and that type of thing so that we're apprised of what's going on and
not being asked at the 11th hour, does RTD support going to the ballot?
This is an awful bang-bang timetable we're being asked to react to. And my personal feeling is that I don't
want to take on more rail construction until we finish up FasTracks. And somebody's going to be looking
at money that we've got left over that we haven't spent yet. And sure is somebody's going to say, well,
why don't RTD reprogram that money for this other project? And we need to keep our eyes open for that.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. I think I saw Secretary Guzman with a question on the
light rail reconstruction.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. Thank you. I have my notes written out. Relative to the delegation of authority,
you've labeled this as a reconstruction. But yet you refer to parts of it as a repair and maintenance.
Repair and maintenance is delegated under the 2022 authority, but reconstruction projects are not. And
so I guess, my question for the Chair is, have we determined what needs to come before this Board for
approval for ratification in terms of these contracts? Because it doesn't exist in the delegation of authority
that I have of most recent record given that language. It doesn't appear in this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary, for the question. If I may, I'd call upon our General Counsel
Melanie Snyder. If you wouldn't mind commenting on the nature of, I believe, it is B2 and B4 in the
delegation of authority and specifically with respect to reconstruction and the routine repair and
maintenance. If you wouldn't mind commenting on that, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Thank you for the question, Director
Guzman.
I think that words do matter. Our General Manager and CEO has elected to characterize this as a full rail
reconstruction project, I think in part-- I don't want to speak too much for you-- but I think in part to convey
the epic nature of what we're doing here. And it's not because of the scale of it.
So RTD has undergone multiple repair and maintenance projects that haven't come before this Board.
You see them-- you get the information in your monthly briefing documents. Those are all within that
delegation of authority with respect to routine rail maintenance and repairs. This is within the delegation of
authority in the sense that this isn't new construction.

I just want to clarify, since Director Broom just referenced new construction. This is repairing on a wide
scale and taking on-- rather than doing piecemeal deferred maintenance projects, doing it all in one or in
larger chunks than RTD has normally done. So I take the point that the language-- it could be subject to
different interpretation. And certainly, the delegation is within this Board's authority.
So if you feel like there's clarification that needs to be made or amendments to that delegation to carve
this out so that this project wouldn't be within the GM and CEO's delegation, that's certainly the purview of
this Board. But the way that I'm understanding our project-- this comprehensive project that's going to be
done-- it is within the scope of prior pieces of repair and maintenance that have been previously
conducted. It's just the scale is quite larger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. And I will respond directly, but, Secretary Guzman,
please go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I guess, my question is, then, what are we going to do as a Board? Because I
also think that there's some caveats in the delegation of authority that would lead me to the conclusion
that it would be proper for these contracts and a project of this scale to come before this Board, so we
have a better understanding of what we have authorized $152 million to go to and be the fiduciaries that
we are supposed to be. And I have a great concern about not following through with that. And this is not a
distrust-- I want to be very clear-- of the GM/CEO or her work.
I know that she is going to complete this the right way. It's part of the goals that we've already had these
discussions. The fiduciary piece is what I'm concerned about-- the financials. And the caveats given in the
delegation of authority do say that money can be moved around.
But to Director Broom's point, when you're doing change orders, when things may not be what we expect
once this work begins, when we run into a problem and the line item exceeds what has been delegated,
it's going to have to come back before us anyway. So is there a way to reconcile what I am concerned
with in terms of what this delegation allows as a Board quickly? Can we move on something, whether
that's through committee or some other way, to ensure that we don't get stuck later having to do work that
we could have prevented now? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. I think I'd like to continue the discussion with Directors
here. I think one of the-- if I can characterize the concerns-- and I would say that there's generally two
threads here. There are the contracts and what will come before the Board as per, I believe, it was packet
page 114 and a question of the delegation of authority, what the Board would like to come before it. I
think there is the second thread, which is updates and oversight of the project itself and staying in the
loop there.
So I do think it's important for us to hear from Directors as to what the needs are with that. I do want to
ask one follow-up question to your question, Secretary, to our General Manager and CEO, which is if you
might comment on the procurement process itself as it relates to slide 14, packet page 114, which is the
table of solicitations. And I believe my question would be, order of operations of some of the contracts
and what we expect when challenged certainly of bringing everything forward before the Board is a matter
of timeliness. So I do just wonder if General Manager and CEO might comment on the order of operations
of contract and with what you expect the pace to be from a cadence standpoint of execution.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly for the question. As I look at packet page 114 and we
look at the different solicitations, and as you're talking about what the pace may be, so if we look at the

first one, I want to seek some clarification from you prior to answering the question because as we look at
Downtown rail reconstruction project legal services, it's under $2 million.
Are we talking about every single aspect that's attributed to this overarching reconstruction replacement-and I do want to qualify I use reconstruction intentionally as we look at what needs to happen since it's
paved track. If this was probably not paved track, perhaps I wouldn't utilize that terminology. It's
something in reference to the projects that I've been associated with, for all intents and purposes. So I
appreciate the question, Director Guzman, because it's a good one. But wanted to understand, are we
talking about the certain aspects of this overarching project? Or are we just talking about the ones that
are associated with, air quote, "construction, maintenance, repair?"
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager, for the clarifying question. I'm going to turn to Secretary
Guzman. I do believe that my understanding would be that the focus would be on the second item, which
is the RFP for phase 1 of the five intersections. But, Secretary Guzman, could you clarify your intent?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So my intent is that this is a much larger project, and it's being broken down into
smaller pieces. But the caveat in the delegation of authority is that if a specific project exceeds a certain
dollar amount, that must come to the Board with regular updates. And this is adding up quickly. Even
broken down into four or five different pieces on this slide right here, there's more to come.
And so it would behoove us to be wary of not allowing that number to skyrocket without asking a bunch of
questions to do our oversight authority. But also, I understand that we need to get contracts done, and
certain delegations have been given. And so I would expect you to do those things and, in short order,
present them to the Board and notify us commensurate on that work being completed. But when it gets to
that point where we are doing the more bulky lift and the more heavy spending in terms of construction
projects, you may come up against your ceiling.
And it would be better to have had that conversation prior to than in the 11th hour and so that we can
move forward with it or operate correctly through a proper delegation of authority on this whole project.
But we cannot look away for any specific parts because I do think that the total of this is going to exceed
what is currently delegated authority right now. And so I just want to be careful and be clear from the
beginning, if we do this right now, meaning do it correctly at this moment, then we will not face any issues
later. But I'm essentially planting the seed to say, if we're going to hit those ceilings, we better be very
aware of it from this moment going forward because we've already allocated funds. We already approved
a budget, and we're going to have to come up against it this year again.
And it's going to extend from '24 to '25 with continued capital expenditures. And they're still outlying
questions from the last year's outlying capital expenditures that were never answered. And so we can't
continue on that basis. We have to have this information, and it needs to be readily available to us, or we
cannot allocate more funds. It would be unwise to do so, in my opinion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. I take the point very well. And I think, again, there's the
contracts themselves and what comes forward, and then there's the oversight on the project itself. And I
think you raised the point that our General Manager and CEO warned us of potential other projects and
things that may be unknown unknowns at this point. So I think I'd just like to also ask that General
Manager and CEO Johnson-- on the oversight piece of this in progress updates, I think it'd be beneficial.
You raise the point of what would be the right forum to bring that up. I do think it's the full Board. I think
given the extent of what's going on, the extensive outreach as well as, obviously, the project itself, it
would be helpful, I think, to hear from staff on a monthly basis at the Board meeting about the progress.

I think that's work stream 1, aside from the contracts, to gain visibility as to what we're discovering, if there
are unknown unknowns that are becoming known and becoming challenging. So I'm wondering if, Ms.
Johnson, you wouldn't mind responding to the idea of bringing forward updates as a standing item until
completion to the full Board meetings.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the dialogue around this. And I'm fully committed to that
because I think that's critically important. This is a project that will create a lot of buzz, recognizing that
this agency has typically not done-- i.e. a shutdown. And I think it's critically important, and I'm committed
to doing that-- having a monthly update-- when we get underway.
Quite naturally, it could be me providing the update. It could be Ms. Vishwakarma's staff providing the
update contingent upon what it is that we have to present. So I'm totally amenable to that. I think that's a
fair and very important contribution that we can make as staff to this body and to the general public at
large. And so before going-- to Director Guzman, you were asking me about the timeline, Mr. Chair,
about-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --these elements. So recognizing the legal services contract, the solicitation was
issued December 5 of 2023. Responses were due on January 4 of 2024.
Those proposals that have been received are being evaluated. And it's my understanding that the
evaluation should be complete by-- OK. It's going to be completed by this week.
The intersection reconstruction contract-- so that was issued on January 11 of this year. Responses were
due on February 13. Proposals were received. They're being evaluated. And as I mentioned in the course
of my presentation, we're expecting the evaluation to be completed by the end of March-- and I said
and/or April, recognizing that we need to bring some things forward.
The project management consultant services issue date was December 15. Responses were due
January 30. Proposals have been received and are being evaluated, and that's expected to be completed
by the end of March. And the request for information is just that.
There's no monetary value associated with that, so that issue date was the 12th. Responses were due on
the 20th. Responses were being received, and the evaluators are looking at the information that was
submitted, utilizing that to make informed decisions as we go forward.
And then, last but not least, quite naturally, the design build project that has not been initiated-- that
request for information will inform that decision as well as the legal services contract relative to ensuring
that we are building out something-- no pun intended-- with design build that works for the betterment of
this agency and being good fiduciaries.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the clarity. I'm going to move on to other Directors for
questions. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We approved the TAMP, and this project was included in the TAMP. So by
default, we approved it. Now, the $153 million comprehensively does that include the design build
contract.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it does.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And it seems to me that portion of these five listed would be something that should
come before the Board because it's the highest dollar amount of all of those listed-- of those five listed.
That's just my personal opinion.
I wanted to say, with regard to change orders, et cetera, the very nature of design build-- there is a
negotiated guaranteed maximum price beyond which the design builder cannot go. So one of the
beauties of design build is that you do not have change orders in the process as opposed to design bid
build. I don't know if any consideration had been given to the CMGC process as opposed to design build.
I just was curious about that. And we can talk about that later.
But I just wanted to say that, by default, we have approved this comprehensively, but I think that a couple
of these projects, particularly the design build project, should come before the Board. And then that's the
one that I would be very concerned about regular updates not only on progress, but on budget updates
and what the spend is. Those are my comments. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Is there anything-- you were looking for a comment on that? OK, thank
you. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just briefly, I tend to agree. I see that the delegation of authority is
certainly not clear. And I appreciate what our General Counsel said, that we've had a lot of small ones.
But with a big project like this, it was part of the TAMP.
But it seems like this is one at $150 million that at least we should have the conversation-- and especially
since you said this is the first of many that will be big projects. I would agree with the way Director Catlin
called out the design build project. And perhaps we have this conversation more overall in some form, not
necessarily tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Other questions, comments? Director
Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a few if that's OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Actually, I should interrupt myself and note that we're at 9:31. I think we need to
take a vote to extend.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The bylaws have us finish the agenda item at hand, and then I'll entertain a motion to
extend. So we're able to finish the current discussion item.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you for that reminder. So my first question is regarding project delivery.
Directors had noted design build, but my understanding is that we're also looking at progressive design
builds slash what we call alternative delivery methods. Is that still correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question. Once again, that's why we did the request for
information, so we can make an informed decision about how we will proceed.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So I think a lot of the questions that I was going to ask about-- the
delegation of authority and these contracts-- have been posed by my colleagues. So I'd just like to make
a couple of comments, if I could.
I do agree that this is not-- I agree with those who say that this isn't routine as described in the delegation
of authority, and perhaps that language could be looked at so that we don't have confusion in the future.
But by our own admission, it isn't routine. And this is asset replacement and at a large scale. And I
understand what our General Counsel-- excuse me-- was saying that this isn't new construction. It's not
new track.
But I do want to remind folks that laying new track actually requires a vote of 12 of us and then some. And
so I'm not sure if-- and so I think we need to have an in-between. And if we asked the general public what
they thought a government oversight body was responsible for, we'd probably get a lot of answers. But
oversight of taxpayer dollars, I think, is nonpartisan and universal.
And I can speak for me personally, when I raise the concern about the oversight component, I'm not
suggesting that we manage the project or that we have a meeting every day or every week about where
we are. But county and city governments appropriate or authorize contracts every week without much
fanfare because that is-- but that is their job. And I think we have a similar job.
The truth is, most of our stakeholders, whether they're riders, or a non-rider that's a taxpayer, or some
members of the state legislature, they don't feel there is much of an inch between the Board and the
GM/CEO. We're all responsible for all the decisions that are made, whether we were in the room or not.
And I just think back to the draft budget that was released last year.
And it's still on our website where we were told that RTD would come to us in the future this fiscal year
when the project scope was complete. And then a few weeks later, there was the $152 million line item
request. It wasn't clear at the time what the dollars would be spent for, the extent of the project. Is it
downtown? Does it extend beyond downtown? But we were told that it was necessary to appropriate
those dollars.
And because those dollars were for multiple projects, to me, it feels like what we did was we created a
fund. And funds have line items that come from them, right? We have a series of projects. And so I don't
think anyone had any ill intention last fall or in the last couple of months. But I don't think that being the
recipient of information is the same as oversight.
And it's not co-governance. It doesn't feel like a partnership. There are times where our GM and CEO
leads, and we lead from behind. And there are times where we check in with each other, and we make
decisions collectively.
And there are times where we need to blend. And I think this is one of those times where we need that
blend because while-- and this is not about trust. This is not anybody saying, Ms. Johnson, we don't trust
you. I think this is actually more about us functioning like a team.
And yeah, for me, that means moving forward, we would have approval authority over future contracts for
these projects. But it also means that when we have service changes that might be minor under Title VI
but are major disruptions to those living them, that we are apprised and we fully understand what's before
us. It means that if something goes wrong-- and sometimes, that happens, especially with large capital
projects-- we collectively are responsible.

And we can all say we made the decisions we made with the information that we had at the time, and we
stand together as a team. So I mean, just considering that we are facing a lot of significant challenges
and criticisms, some of that feedback might be valuable, and some might not be fair. But we're still in it
together. I think that, for me, the biggest concern I have is that we have to go to the voters soon and ask
to debruce, and we have to ask the taxpayer to continue to trust us with their dollars.
And I think it's hard for us to make a case as a Board when we absolve ourselves of the responsibility to
collectively track and how where those dollars are being spent. So thank you for allowing me to comment
on this. And again, I just want to state, if we were to look at updating the delegation of authority to provide
some clarification, it's not about do we have trust in our GM/CEO?
We do because she is still here. It's more about functioning more like a team and ensuring that the
taxpayer can continue to trust us. That's where I'm coming from. So I just wanted to state that on the
record.
I also have a couple questions about the project itself. But if there are any other Directors who wanted to
comment or ask questions, I would yield to them first.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Duly noted on the comments. And thank you for offering
the floor to other folks who have questions. Are there additional questions from Directors? I see Director
Tisdale online.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity. I just want to go to
the delegation of authority question because that's the principal one. And I think the point has been made
far better than my inadequate words could ever make it,
So I won't repeat all of that. I begin with the fact that the delegation resolution in the appropriate section
says at the very beginning of this particular subparagraph B, routine procurements, and then it goes on
for maintenance and repairs. It does not say for extraordinary procurements, and it does not say for the
replacement of rail infrastructure.
It says routine procurements for maintenance and repairs. I think the discussion tonight has illustrated
vividly this is not a routine procurement for maintenance and repairs. And the argument has been made,
well, we actually already approved this.
No, it's just like Congress. There's a difference between authorize and appropriate. The authorization
committee, if you will, authorized this work so that we could start going ahead and getting things in order
and sending out these RFQs, RFIs, and so forth.
But the appropriation is a separate question. And the appropriation is a function of this Board being
presented with the contract. I do not believe that either General Manager/CEO or General Counsel
believe that $160 million is something that is routine that we have no voice in, and that stuns me.
So I point out what the language is in the delegation. I point out that others outside of this Board room-assuming that the people who commented earlier in the public comment section are not still present-raise a valid point. And so, therefore, I agree, and I emphasize Director Guzman's comment. It's not a
question of distrusting the General Manager/CEO.
It is a question of fulfilling our fiduciary duty as imposed upon us by the RTD Act. And we cannot allow a
version of analysis that has been offered to vary that. So yes, we approved-- I'm sorry-- we authorized

something, but we didn't appropriate yet. And that's what the contract approval process actually does.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Understood on the comments. Other questions from
Directors? Seeing no other hands up, I'll go back to Director Ruscha, who mentioned you have some
questions about the project.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Gosh, it's always really hard to follow Director Tisdale.
[LAUGHS] I have a train of thought, and then it gets derailed, so to speak. So I have a couple questions
about the project scope and actually the Welton corridor, which I understand will come later on in the
year, but it was noted in the presentation.
So my first question is, we've talked a lot about level boarding. And I think it's a matter of when and not if.
But we're also going to do high block replacements, and I was just wondering if someone could speak to
that. Is this going to be a temporary? Permanent? What do we think that section of the Welton corridor is
going to look like in a couple of years?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question. First, to
provide some context-- as an organization, we did receive monies in which we are leveraging to do a
level boarding assessment. Recognizing what's being included relative to the Welton corridor, those high
blocks are in need of replacement. In the midst of doing a level boarding assessment, that will help us
garner information relative to a path forward.
Quite naturally, we would need to procure rolling stock. There's a mechanism in which there could be a
hybrid using the current railcars that we have going forward. But as we look at the useful life of our rail
vehicles, we still have some useful life with said vehicles. And so first and foremost, recognizing that we
have to do an assessment to determine a path forward, the repairs to the high block are just that at this
juncture.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So my second question is somewhat related to the first. It's regarding
ADA improvements along the Welton corridor. I made an inquiry via email to our GM/CEO, and that was
also sent to the Board, so there's more detail in your inbox.
But RTD has stated that we might defer certain ADA improvements along the Welton corridor just
pending review of contractor assessments. And some of those improvements being considered are crossslope passing with accessible pedestrian signals accessible routes and the like. And so I was just
wondering. I mean, first, are there parts of the Welton corridor that are not currently ADA-accessible? And
why were accessible features highlighted as a possible deferred installation? Any context there would be
helpful.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So just for everybody's edification, I did receive the correspondence from Director
Ruscha late Sunday night, and I did share on Monday that I would be doubling back and providing a
response as soon as practical no later than Monday, March 4. So I wanted to provide that context.
To answer your question, yes, our transit network is ADA-accessible and ADA-compliant, first and
foremost. Once again, as we talk about the language that has been leveraged, we're doing an RFI as we
are able to garner a better understanding for best practices. I would be remiss to not state that RTD quite
naturally does not own all the infrastructure and things of the like.
That goes into conversations that we've had relative to the accessibility of our bus stops because we don't
have auspices over arterioles, sidewalks, and things of the like-- and so recognizing that we are working
with jurisdictional partners. And this is not to put any entity in a precarious position, but recognizing that
some elements as it relates to certain laws could have been grandparenthood in. The point of the matter
is we will do everything that we need to do.
We're working with cities. And that was just a generalized statement as we go forward. But rest assured
that we are in compliance with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Ruscha, further questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, if I may. Thank you for that, GM/CEO Ms. Johnson.
And if this is something that might come in the subsequent memo, I understand. But I guess I wonder
because we don't necessarily-- it was implied that some of the rail ties are underneath the platform. I
would guess, I was just wondering if-- because we don't know what we don't know-- if that might also
trigger additional regulatory requirements as far as the ADA and current accessibility guidelines for the
public right of way.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much. I will delve into this a little deeper, recognizing that I did see
your email yesterday, midday. I need to confer with my staff.
Hence, I will ensure that we provide a response in great detail addressing the questions. I'd be remiss to
offer up a response without doing my due diligence. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for that. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I appreciate that. Naturally, my concern would be that spend tens of
millions of dollars in this light rail replacement, and we inadvertently leave folks behind. But I appreciate
that.
And I also do want to acknowledge that, yes, I did send the email, I think, Sunday night, following the
Friday night release of the packet. So I just have one more question. It's a light one and underhanded
easy softball, which means it's not. Do we have any plans for 29th and Welton Station?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would have to confer with my staff. I can't answer that question just sitting right
here, right now. Thanks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Other questions? Seeing none, I'd like to just make a few comments. I
think the bulk of my questions have been answered. I want to comment on the project itself-- obviously, a
huge undertaking. I think something very important was said earlier, which was learning lessons around
the communication, around our coping panels, and around previous maintenance.
I just wanted to acknowledge that and say thank you for that. Mr. Summers, thank you for being here late
and presenting this to us. I think the communication plan is strong, and I look forward to following along
with this. And thank you for breaking it down the way that you did. I think communication obviously is key
in this, so thank you.
I just also want to thank all of staff who's been involved in preparing this. This is a significant undertaking.
I think it's very notable. And we talk about workforce around here and specialized skill sets. There is this
RFP for project management support consultant services, and understand the need for that, and thank
everybody from staff for identifying where we need to fill in and working on this-- so big undertaking.
I just want to summarize a few things that I heard of decisions that were made. So, Ms. Johnson, thank
you for the willingness to bring forward updates at the Board meetings. I think given, of course, the nature
of this, look forward to having monthly discussions and check-in on this.
I did hear quite a bit of discussion around delegation of authority with respect to contracts. I think the idea
here is the repair and maintenance portions that are the most significant. The Board has my commitment
to work and understand what needs to be done, what's possible to fulfill the needs that I think I
understood here, and work in collaboration with staff.
So I thank everybody for this discussion here and look forward to taking on state of good repair, which is,
as we see, more than just a phrase and critically important. So with that, thank you very much for the
presentation. We will move on.
And at this time, we are past the four-hour mark. So I would entertain a motion to extend the meeting, if
there is one.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would move to extend the meeting to complete the agenda with the hope that it won't
take long.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I hear a motion. Do I have a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear the second is Guzman and the motion. Are there any objections to extending
the meeting to complete the agenda? Seeing none. We will go ahead and extend the meeting to complete
the agenda. I will just remind everybody when we get there, on the report of Directors' activities and other
matters, we'll keep that very, very brief.
With that, we're going to move to the next discussion item, which is the May 2024 service change
discussion. General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, would you like to introduce this item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. We have our very distinguished deliberate
intentional and just caring individual being our Senior Director of-- Senior Manager, excuse me-- of
Service Development, who will provide you all information relative to the forthcoming service changes for

May of 2024, which, of course, incorporates a large portion of what I discussed this evening regarding the
rail reconstruction project. With that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Carter.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And not to mention patience, so yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Patience. That's why I was like, we have to extend the meeting. He's been sitting
here for hours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for being here, sir. The floor is yours.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Chair. Always picked last, but that's OK. And thank you, GM/CEO
Johnson.
That was a very thorough explanation. I'm sorry. That was a very thorough explanation of the project and
actually pointed out where some of the key points of what kind of shape the May 2024 service change.
So what we effort to do with this service change was try to provide and maintain access to the different
parts of downtown that are definitely impacted by the fact that the D, H, and L are somewhat impacted-redirected as far as the D and the H are considered and a discontinued temporarily as far as the L line is
considered.
So with that, we have notable service changes that include the reduction of the Free MallRide but at the
same time, the reintroduction of the Free MetroRide. You might remember that's a service that runs up
and down 18th and 19th streets. We introduced it in 2014. That service doesn't stop at the same
frequency as the MallRide.
The MallRide, you could look at it as like a horizontal elevator where it stops at every single stop.
Whereas the Free MetroRide has designated stops and, therefore, operates at a higher operating speed.
So by doing that, we're hoping to provide decent access to those who have been diverted to Denver
Union Station via the D and the H line and give them an alternative in the Free MetroRide and also still
maintain to Free MallRide. That does reduce the service that's on the Free MallRide to 10 minutes, and
we're hoping to provide mid-day service as well as peak service on the Free MetroRide.
I will also say that-- and sorry, I'm going to go a little bit off script in that I did hear the public comment-and once again, thank you for coming, and thank you for providing your input-- that it is very important for
the public process to occur. And at the same time, I do want to point out there are some very big
differences between the Free MetroRide and the vehicles that we use on it and the 16th Street Mall. The
16th Street Mall is designed to go very straight, and it doesn't like to turn so much.
And that's a little bit different from the Free MetroRide. The Free MetroRide uses an articulated coach,
and our TICs actually turn better than our 40-footers. So as we go through these detours, we are likely to
see times in which we're going to require those services to make multiple turns.
And so once again, that's another reason why we are looking at the Free MetroRide versus to Free
MallRide. If we had the bandwidth and the head count to actually provide higher levels of service, we
would. But we have to be mindful of the workforce challenges that we still do have at this point.
I don't want to skim over or skip the fact that this is a May service change. And what's customary with a
May service change is the turndown in our regular-- in our school service. The seasonal school service

gets turned off for summer, and that also includes things up in Boulder, like the MV going to Eldora Ski
Resort.
So we're turning those services off. But there are a number of other service changes that aren't as related
to the detour that will occur. And that includes the reduction of service span on light rail. There are a
number of routes if you looked at it, the number of lines that were reduced, the span of service.
And that's because with light rail, we currently only have two hours of time when the system is completely
powered down to provide maintenance, and we certainly need more than that. So with this proposal, what
the recommendation does is expands that to between four and four and a half hours for maintenance.
And I think that's something that's absolutely necessary for us to consider, again, looking at asset
management and making sure our service can run. So with that, I'm going to try and make this brief. And
with your permission, Chair, I would like to open for questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Carter. Appreciate the clarity and explanation there. I'll open
up for any questions from Directors. Yes, Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah. I'm still trying to find the nexus between the big project that we're doing and service
changes. I see a lot of communities like-- if I may, Director Guzman, talk about an area that's outside of
my district. But I'm concerned about the place like Osage.
Now, Osage has a train stop, but there's no buses that stop there. So during this construction, if that
particular stop is eliminated because of the construction, are we going to provide buses to that particular
area to get those people to and from north and south? Because I a lot of those low-income people like to
go south to use Walmart and other grocery places outside of Denver-- you know, Inglewood and areas
like that. So that was my-- I was asking you earlier what the nexus was between adding some bus lines
and drivers to help fill in those gaps for the big project that you're talking about.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. For clarification-- and I apologize. I wish I had a presentation that had a diagram
of the actual system. But 10th and Osage is before the Y, before we actually go over to what's considered
the Central Platte Valley. So it will have a stop, but we do have concerns about connections from that
area. And one of the proposals that that's in the current paper is the Platte Valley FlexRide.
One of the things that we are speaking with the folks who are responsible for our FlexRide services is
considering having a stop there or basing the vehicle there because what we're doing is we're combining
or trying to regularize that service into a normal FlexRide service. So 10th and Osage will be served, and
there is the opportunity to perhaps provide folks with more direct access. And the area that I'm thinking
about is more Auraria Campus, where we do see a number of folks get off in that area.
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chairman, I have a follow-up question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Geez, I just lost my train of thought. We must be past four hours.
[LAUGHTER]

Oh. So I was thinking, you know, what I'm afraid of is that little pockets of situations like this are going to
pop up, and we're going to have to address them. So I'm going to hit hard. I really think we should hold off
on reintroducing the MetroRide because I think we need to save those assets. I think we need to save
those drivers, and I think we need to save those buses because I get a feeling we're going to have a lot
more impact from this project than we think.
For instance, people are going to be just jamming the Zero because the Zero runs parallel to the train line
going south. So you're going to have a volume issue there where you're going to have to add buses to
that Zero line to accommodate all those people getting out of 5 o'clock that used to take that train. Now
they're going to take the Zero. So I don't have all the answers, but I'm just thinking, if I thought about
those two examples, guess what, we need more buses, and we need more drivers. So maybe the
MetroRide can wait a little while, so just a suggestion.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Just as a point of clarification, when I talk about reintroducing the Free MetroRide,
we're doing that out of the resources that are taken from the current Free MallRide. So it's not a new
service. We're not adding more operators. We're actually using the same resources. We are resourceneutral in this case.
And I agree with you. The Zero will have quite a bit of impact. And to that end, we are proposing that
there be mid-day service on the Zero L, which does parallel some of the service going into Civic Center
Station.
So I certainly appreciate it, and I agree 100% that we would love to have more operators to throw out the
issue. However, we don't. We have to be mindful of that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis and Mr. Carter. Yeah, Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. So we are diverting D and H lines to Union during the
reconstruction process, correct?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So in theory, would that mean more service to Union?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm going to have to give that an unequivocal yes, it's more service to Union.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Well, so you have to come in from the Southern District down here. So for folks,
that's going to look good for them for if they want to catch a baseball game or whatever.
So I guess, the question would be then, how do we accommodate that during the reconstruction process?
So for instance, will we display that the H and D are designated for Union now? That might not be
necessarily-- so we would say, on our marquee system or on our electronic system, H line to Union
Station, D line to Union Station. And then would that be present on our website as well? And would that
be present on the MyRide app?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?

JAIME LEWIS:
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Treasurer Bouquet, for the question. Most definitely, we
will. Recognizing that you can have individuals that aren't familiar with the system, we will be showing the
train destination signs-- the train's destination on the head signs. And in light of the presentation that Mr.
Summers provided, the maps and the communique associated with that would be representative of what
actually is happening. Hence, that's why this is tied with said service change to correspond with all the
collateral that we would leverage.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then the MyRide app as well? OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, indeed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. And then, I guess-- sorry to play devil's advocate real quick-- but for
folks who are potentially exposed to light rail for the first time, that H and D is associated with Union-would we just-- I'm assuming-- I guess, we just have to be-- we would acknowledge that folks who might
ride the light rail for the first time and think, oh, the H line goes the Union, or the D line goes the Union,
during this reconstruction process, just having that transition ready that these are actually designated for
18th in California.
JESSIE CARTER: If I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. The branding, I'm sure, will be a part of the indoctrination/education program in
the-[LAUGHTER]

And we will certainly be repeating the phrase that this is temporary while the construction project is there.
So we'll have to go back to our other way of being. But of course, we will create the correct head sign, the
correct language, and print it, and repeat it, and repeat it again. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And, Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So if I may, I just want to qualify for the Board and for those listening in, this is
customary. And I don't want to put a couple of people on the spot. But just like last year, Chair Guissinger
when we were in DC and the Yellow line was under construction, and you had to navigate on the Blue
line because they had shut down the station, it's the same element. So in the sense of providing
information relative to customers and the general public about what we're operating, we would do the
same thing on the flip side because we're not going to leave that to somebody to deduce what was as
opposed to what currently is.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Appreciate it because from my perspective-- you know, again, this is us
geographically representing our areas as elected Board members-- we see this as potentially a benefit for
the folks down in District G and down there because now we have more access to the H line through the-excuse me-- to Union through H and D. So thank you.

JESSIE CARTER: Right. I should clarify, though, Chair, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please.
JESSIE CARTER: The E line, because of the coping panel project, we will have to turn down the
frequency on the E line a bit. It'll be a bit more service than current, but we will have to run at the 30minute frequency for a period of time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'll take a bit though.
JESSIE CARTER: All right.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Carter, for your hard work and your team. So
quick question about the 105, which goes along Havana-- so my understanding is that there will-- first of
all, what is the running time analysis? What does that all entail?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. So in the Board report, in attachment A, when you take a look at it, there's an area
that's highlighted in gray, and it talks about its on-time performance. So if we look at the route 105, you
will note that the route 105 is currently 77% on time. So that's below our standard for a good service. So
what we're planning to do is a running time analysis, evaluate it, and then add time where necessary in
the correct places to increase on-time performance.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And it says, estimated cost impact up to one FTE. So that means you're adding an
FTE. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: One full-time equivalent, yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, OK. And then finally, so in terms of the R line, apparently in order to assist with
the coping panel project, that will cost 3.5 hours per week in order to make sure that project is done on
time. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: Well, at this point, the R line would stated as a cost savings is because of the span
reduction. So we're going to be pulling in earlier. It's what we're proposing is to pull in earlier and pull out
later. So as far as the R line's schedule changes, we're trying to jockey the R line in and around the new
schedules that are being impacted by coping panels.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And as was stated in the memorandum, the document-- let's make sure-- the
discussion item May 2024, service change proposal-- this is all discussed with the Amalgamated Local
Transit Union local 1001. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: At this point, what's customary before or right around the time that we come to you, we
have what's called a pre-run board committee meeting where we get together and discuss upcoming
changes. And I hear from them some of the issues about the current run board.

And that sometimes is additive to our process as to other routes that we need to look at. So for instance,
the route 105 that you mentioned, those are things that came up from operator suggestions. So looking at
the list of on-time performance, we agree. And that's something that we're taking a look at.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So first question-- not to rub salt in anyone's wounds, but I
have to ask, what's the current ridership on the MallRide right now, roughly? How are we faring compared
to-- JESSIE CARTER: May I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah, that is salt in a wound. Keep in mind that the 16th Street Mall is under
construction. So with that, we are down to about 4,600 boardings per day on a weekday.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So what does that mean? How does that compare to previous years or before
construction or Before COVID, BC?
JESSIE CARTER: BC? Before COVID? OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Before COVID, Before Construction, what does that mean in numbers?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. The Free MallRide was one of our largest bus service, or it is our largest bus
service. So in the heyday, in the good, old days, it was carrying about 48,000-[AUDIO OUT]

And I'm sorry, Director Tisdale. You couldn't hear me before?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Tisdale, can you hear us?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Yeah, that's the third time tonight that the audio was cut out for a
period of time. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I understand we've had some internet connectivity issues
this evening. But we're OK right now, and the recording has continued. So thank you for the-DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. And please note, but for car troubles, I would be down there with you
through this whole thing.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Please, please, continue. Pardon the interruption, Mr. Carter.

JESSIE CARTER: OK. No problem. So with that, we are down on ridership, but that is completely
understandable given the fact that it's not operating in its normal corridor. And right now, when you look at
Downtown working population, we're down quite a bit. Somewhere between 30% and 50% as the
numbers that I hear on a regular basis.
So with that, we still want to provide the best access and the best opportunities we can for those who are
impacted-- so the folks who are no longer able to get into center of Downtown and have easy access to
the southern part of Downtown or the northern with the T or the H line. But instead, we want to provide
that service and the quicker opportunity with the Free MetroRide. And again, that is temporary.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Ruscha, further questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. OK, so MetroRide to the rescue, it sounds like. Thank you for that. And I
apologize. If someone could get Mr. Carter some water for the salt I rubbed in the wound. I didn't mean to
do that.
[LAUGHS]
So I just wanted to make a general comment. And maybe I don't know who would be best to respond. In
looking at the previous presentation, I was a little bit concerned about our communication schedule. I
think I noted that messaging at stations and service alerts will start in May. And so I think given that this is
a lot of disruption for many and these are some major changes, even if they're some temporary upgrades,
I want to put out there that I think we need to communicate earlier and more often.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Further questions? Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the hard work. I think Mo is probably the person helping with the 44
and the 8. Shout out-- those bus routes really needed some help, and I'm tired of waiting for them late
every day.
So it's nice to see that that's being addressed. I appreciate all the hard work. I read through the materials
thoroughly, and I think that this is a really solid plan. So continue on with the good work, and send our
congratulations to your team on their hard efforts. We appreciate it.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you. I will let the East team know.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Hear, hear. Mr. Carter, thank
you very much for joining us and hanging out.
JESSIE CARTER: And one last thing, if I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, please, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: And I'm sorry. I didn't mention it. We're planning for the service change meetings
starting March 6, 12:00 noon virtual and at 5:30 here at Blake Street, and also March 7 at noon virtually.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. All right. With that, we are going to complete the agenda.
I will just ask that we do a very abbreviated report of Director activities, which is what we're moving to
next. I just ask for only things that really are urgent or needing attention from fellow Directors. I will note
that I actually had planned to address in other matters that I would like to use report of Director activities
for some of our external appointments-- those of us that serve, such as with Dr. Cog, et cetera, would like
to be able to hear relevant updates. With that being said, my plan was to invite Directors to share
information from those external entities at the March Board meeting, just to start preparing those reports.
So with that in mind, I'll open up for report of Director activities. Just please, anything that needs to be
highlighted. I'll look for hands at this time. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that at the Executive Committee meeting, we
discussed issuing a letter of commendation to retiring Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration,
Nuria Fernandez, the sorority sister of our General Manager/CEO. And we got a head nod in favor of that.
And I just wanted to indicate that the letter has been drafted and that apparently the Board Chair and the
GM/CEO will be signing that and sending that out to our good friend, Nuria Fernandez. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Other report on Director activities? All right. We're going
to move to other matters.
I did just want to briefly touch-- and, Director Rosenthal, I'm looking at you here-- just in other matters.
The Board was very saddened to hear the news of the passing of a former RTD Board Director, Bill
McMullen, who I think was the predecessor of the predecessor. And I'd like to just briefly open the floor to
Director Rosenthal for a word or two.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for giving us a little time to remember Bill
McMullen, for those of you who remember him. He was a good man, and he was a friend of mine as we
were very involved-- I know this is not a partisan group here-- but we were very involved in the
Democratic party.
He was a captain, and he was one of my mentors, somebody I looked to who really did a lot of
organizing. And he did it with such flair. He did it with such a good sense of humor.
Our party is not the easiest one to organize, but he did it with incredible leadership skills. And when he
was a Board member of RTD, he distinguished himself. And one of the things that he did when he was a
Board member-- there were some labor issues, and he went out to be with labor when they were
protesting. And that took a lot of chutzpah to do, a lot of guts. And I admire him for that.
So just at this time, I'm remembering Bill. I know he was also a good friend of former Director Angie
Malpiede and others. So thank you for that opportunity to remember Bill.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal, thank you for your comments and remembering Director
McMullen. Any other matters to come before this Board? Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to ask, given that we heard so much public
feedback regarding the on-demand changes, if that was something that our GM/CEO could address in a
follow-up email to the Board?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager, do you want to comment?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for the question, and Chair Davidson
for allowing me to address it. Most definitely, this is something relative to us discerning what type of
services we're providing. This is part and parcel of what I shared at the Board retreat why I am
commissioning a peer review, recognizing that access on demand was supplemental to our paratransit
services.
And I think, throughout the pilot program, deducing some elements and want to ensure that we're being
good fiduciaries and finding out what works best holistically. And I will be preparing a briefing for you all
coming forward.
Thank you. It may be greater than a memo. I think it warrants having a conversation. So that's why it was
hesitant to just say a memo. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any other matters to come
before the Board?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Move to adjourn.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Seeing none. We will adjourn as of 10:17 PM Mountain Standard Time.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, February 27th, 2024.
February 26th, 2024
Erik Davidson, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Davidson,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following three topics:
1.

Senate Bill 24-032 Support Position

GDT encourages all Directors to vote for a support position on SB24-032 Methods to Increase Transit Use.
The bill enables four great ways to increase transit ridership in Colorado, including making Zero Fare for
Better Air an annual event and laying the foundations for a statewide transit pass program. We are excited to
see the potential changes that result from this bill, and look forward to resulting improvements in ridership and
the rider experience.
2.

Downtown Denver Rail Reconstruction Project - Board Oversight

GDT is concerned that this project may not get proper oversight by the RTD Board due to it being incorrectly
labeled as a routine procurement and repair and maintenance of rail infrastructure (Agenda Packet Page
114), meaning it is eligible to skip Board approval under Section B(2) of Resolution No. 010 (Delegation of
Authority and Competitive Selection), passed by the Board in October 2022. A project that requires a request
for proposal process, the hiring of a program management support consultant and has bespoke design /
issued for bid drawings should be considered anything but a routine procurement that does not require
Board approval. Secondly, this whole program of work has been developed following PUC enforcement action
and emergency rail replacement requirements, not as part of a routine repair and maintenance and schedule,
which would typically include tasks such as resurfacing the rails and repairing patches of cracked concrete.
The current proposal differs significantly from what most would consider routine procurement, and it should
be noted that RTDs own words on the project are This is the first time the agency will undertake a major
reconstruction project of this nature (Agenda Packet Page 106). This wording indicates that this project should
receive significantly more oversight than is currently proposed.
GDT strongly urges the Board to carry out the oversight role entrusted to them by the public, and reject all
interpretations from RTD staff that this project is routine procurement or simply repair and maintenance. The
Board should insist on full visibility and approval rights on all related contracts the GM & CEO wishes to enter
into, especially for a major project such as this one.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

3. MetroRide and Service Change Concerns:
When considering the Downtown Denver Rail Reconstruction Project combined with the 16th Street Mall
Project, the state of transit in Downtown Denver this summer is set to be the most disrupted it has ever been
since the Light Rail system was first being built in the early 1990s. 31% of Downtown offices are sitting vacant
at the start of this year (not even accounting for leased, but unused space which delivers an effective vacancy
number well over 50%), along with pedestrian traffic heavily disrupted by construction on the 16th Street Mall.
Given these factors, it is all the more vital that RTD provide robust information about how they will provide
responsive services to current ridership and population trends in Downtown Denver. The current information
provided regarding service changes is leading us to have concerns regarding successful execution of services
during this time.
As such, GDT requests more details behind the changes in bus operations and routing through Downtown
Denver connected with the Downtown Denver Rail Reconstruction Project. Namely, GDT requests additional
information about the planned resumption of the RTD Free MetroRide Bus at the expense of Free MallRide
frequencies:
1. Why is the Free MetroRide being brought back, and what is the underlying logic for bringing it back at
this point in time specifically?
2. Is the Free MetroRide returning (a) just for the duration of the Light Rail service suspension on the
Central Downtown Loop, (b) the remainder of the MallRides detour, or (c) is it being brought back to
stay per the System Optimization Plan (SOP)?
3. What is the exact span of service hours (e.g. is it 6am - 6pm)?
Why the Free MetroRide is a Wasteful Use of Operators:
The resumption of the RTD Free MetroRide as currently presented would be a misappropriation of
scarce operators on a route (Denver Union Station to Civic Center) that already benefits from the
highest frequency of bus services on the system. Even if the MetroRides new hours of operation are
extended beyond their previous peak-only configuration, the route over 19th Street (one of Downtowns
least-dense and lowest-demand north/south streets) will limit ridership, and it is very possible that many of the
intended transit riders who would be catching the bus from central Downtown may completely ignore the route
as 19th has not hosted any local transit in nearly 4 years.
The Free MetroRide was a peak-only Downtown circulator bus for commuters that operated in Downtown
Denver connecting Union Station with Civic Center from 2014 until March 2020. The service was created not
to increase service in eastern Downtown (which would have been operated all day if it had), but was explicitly
designed for commuters in response to the closure of the old Market Street bus station and opening of Denver
Union Station (DUS) as Downtown Denvers premier public transit hub in 2014. The reasoning at the time was
that downtown office workers, arriving by bus or on one of the new commuter rail lines, would increase demand
on the existing Free MallRide to a point where a second circulator bus service was required.The route
alignment operated was atypical in that it connected Union Station and Civic Center not via 15th and 17th
Streets, which have hosted the bulk of Downtowns bus services for decades, but via dedicated stops on 18th
Street for northbound and the much lower-density, less-utilized 19th Street for southbound trips that are not
shared with any other buses.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Even when the service was opened in 2014, the case for a second parallel circulator was shaky as RTD
runs buses every few minutes up 15th & 17th Streets, which are available to regular commuters at no extra
cost due to them already having paid fares to commute into Downtown Denver. The case for a second
circulator is now virtually non-existent due to ridership stubbornly remaining at 2/3rds of what it was
pre-pandemic and is not likely to rebound quickly in the foreseeable future due to the phenomenal increase in
employees working from home. Currently, the vacancy rate for Downtown Denver offices is 31% compared to
16% pre-pandemic, meaning a proposal to reinstate a commuter-focused route is all the more out of touch with
todays reality.
In light of these realities, GDT is especially dismayed to read that RTD plans to take operators from the
Free MallRide and reduce frequency on that route to a distinctly unfriendly 10 minutes. Many people use
the Free MallRide due to it being simple to understand, having a large span of service and being historically
hyper-frequent. A quick glance up the street usually locates a big red vehicle approaching and the reassurance
you will be on your way within a couple of minutes. This route has already been severely cut, with any more
cuts risk making it unusable and disproportionately harming the agencys reputation with tourists and
non-frequent RTD users.
Branding and information resources would be far better-used to promote RTDs existing and
highly-frequent service between Denver Union Station and Civic Center which is not
widely-recognized. Since the Free MetroRide last ran, the Denver Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure (DOTI) has upgraded the bus lanes along 15th and 17th Streets and RTD has introduced a new
tap to ride fare system that enables transfers to be effortlessly achieved. With investment in large, new
information displays at Union Station and Civic Center, it is easier than ever to use bus routes 0, 9, 10, 15, and
19 to traverse Downtown Denver, given their very high combined frequency. We believe these investments
reduce commuter confusion, and serve to increase ease of use of the existing bus system without
implementing a service that 1) is unlikely to make a substantive impact, given the relative lack of commuters to
Downtown Denver and 2) would divert valuable resources from current RTD services and potentially hamper
investment into newer, more robust and responsive services.
If a new route is being considered to help balance service in Downtown during the light rail outage, the
lack of east/west service is far more important with service along Blake/Market and Welton in need of
more consideration. GDT has previously shared its Downtown Bus Plan, which advocates for a streamlining
of regular bus service along 15th & 17th Streets, rerouting of a portion of DUS-bound service to 18th Street
and consolidating the dangerous and difficult to use X, Y, Z stops downtown. The plan also details a
genuinely useful way the existing fleet of 12 Free MetroRide New Flyer XD60 buses could be put to use as an
east/west circulator service running along Blake / Market from the 38th / Blake Station to Federal-Decatur
Station, what is today the largest service gap in the Downtown area. As well as providing a much-needed
addition to Downtown Denvers bus network, this would also have the added short-term benefit of actually
alleviating the effects of the E/W rail reconstruction project mentioned earlier for rail riders transferring to
traverse downtown.
We urge Directors to stop this inefficient use of RTDs resources and taxpayers money and only
approve the May 2024 Service Changes if the proposal to reinstate the Free MetroRide is either
removed, or comes back as a temporary measure operated only until the Central Downtown Light Rail
service resumes or the detour of the MallRide off of 16th Street finally ends. If implemented as such, we urge
for the provision of all-day services to ensure meaningful ridership, and clear navigation and directions to orient
riders who may be unfamiliar with the service (given its 4-year absence).

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

We thank you for reading our letter, and we look forward to continued collaboration in improving RTD services.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 4

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 010
___, SERIES OF 2022
(Delegation of Authority and Competitive Selection)
2022
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors (Board) of the Regional Transportation
District (RTD), in accordance with its Bylaws and the RTD Act, previously
delegated certain purchasing and contracting authority to the General Manager in
Resolution No. 7, Series of 1990, adopted August 14, 1990, Resolution No.19,
Series of 2007, adopted November 20, 2007, and Resolution No. 002, Series of
2022, adopted March 22, 2022;

WHEREAS, the Board additionally delegated budget-transfer authority to the
General Manager in a Budget Transfer Policy, adopted February 26, 1985, and
Resolution No. 19, Series of 2007, adopted November 20, 2007;

WHEREAS, the Board additionally delegated authority to the General Counsel
to settle claims made against the District up to the limits provided in the Colorado
Governmental Immunity Act in a Recommended Action, adopted April 21, 2015;

WHEREAS, the Board wishes to update the delegations of purchasing and
contracting, budget-transfer, and settlement authority consistent with the Boards
Bylaws, the RTD Act, regulations published by the Federal Transit Administration,
and the Boards historical practices; and

WHEREAS, the Board wishes to update RTDs competitive-selection
requirements for procurements to be consistent with regulations published by the
Federal Transit Administration.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

Page 1 of 6

A. For purposes of this Resolution, Contract includes any legally binding
agreement or purchase order between RTD and one or more other parties,
including

but

not

limited

to

contracts

for

goods

and/or

services;

intergovernmental agreements; grant and subrecipient agreements for federal,
state, or local funds; real property agreements; and revenue agreements
including advertising, naming rights, and in-kind service exchanges. Contracts
that are excluded from the delegation of authority in Section B below,
regardless of dollar amount (Exclusions), are enumerated below to include
those for the following services:
(1) Transit security personnel and special enforcement services, but not
including secondary employment police officer services;
(2) Local, state, and federal lobbying, or legislative liaison services;
(3) Consultant services for major studies and analyses, that may result in
significant modification to the agencys current framework and where the
product of the consultants work will be presented to the Board for
approval, adoption, or for consideration in connection with significant
agency-wide Board policy decisions;
(4) Internal or external audit services;
(5) Any amendments, change orders, or exercise of options to renew or extend
any such Exclusions exceeding $200,000. This $200,000 limit shall not
apply to the exclusions contained in Section A. (2) regarding local, state,
and federal lobbying or legislative liaison services; and
(6) The Board shall approve the Scope of Work for all Exclusions listed in
Sections A. (2) through (4) above prior to any solicitation.

B. Within the adopted RTD budget and consistent with the established policies
and procedures of RTD, the Board delegates, subject to the Exclusions, to the
General Manager the authority and responsibility to approve and execute:
(1) All purchase requisitions;
(2) Routine procurements, regardless of amount, for the following operational

Page 2 of 6

needs: electricity; water; natural gas; snow removal; vehicle fuel; engine
oil and lubricants; tire leasing and maintenance; parts for buses, rail, and
facilities; maintenance and repairs for public, administrative, and
maintenance facilities; maintenance and repairs for rail infrastructure;
custodial services; bridge inspections; street improvements to move bus
stops and improve sidewalk connectivity; printing; insurance premiums;
and computer hardware, software, and related support services;
(3) Contracts resulting from a formal invitation for bids, provided the lowest
responsive and responsible bid does not exceed $2,000,000 and is within
the amount budgeted;
(4) Contracts resulting from a formal request for proposals, provided the most
responsive and responsible proposal does not exceed $2,000,000 and is
within the amount budgeted;
(5) All other Contracts up to $2,000,000;
(6) Contract amendments and change orders, as may be necessary from time
to time not to exceed a cumulative total of 25% of the original Contract
amount, provided such amount does not exceed $2,000,000. This
provision does not apply to amendments, change orders or option exercises
for contracts covered by Section A. (6), above; and
(7) Settlements of claims against RTD up to the limits provided in the Colorado
Governmental Immunity Act, C.R.S.  24-10-114.

C. All Contracts, Contract amendments, and change orders in excess of the
amounts set forth above and all Exclusions, shall be submitted to the Board
for authorization. After such authorization, the Board delegates to the General
Manager the authority and responsibility to execute such Contracts, Contract
amendments, and change orders.

D. Consistent with the plans and programs of RTD, including the Small Business
Enterprise Plan:

Page 3 of 6

(1) Purchase requisitions for goods and/or services cumulatively estimated to
exceed $250,000 shall be competitively procured and, where appropriate,
formally advertised, with bids and proposals submitted in writing or
electronically. Bids and proposals shall be opened, and proposals shall be
evaluated, prior to the award of a Contract;
(2) Purchase requisitions for goods and/or services cumulatively estimated to
be less than or equal to $250,000 may be competitively procured by
contacting a minimum of two or more qualified vendors or suppliers, and
documenting and evaluating their offers prior to the award of a Contract;
and
(3) Sole-source procurements of more than $250,000 for goods and/or
services other than those described in Section B. (2) shall be allowed only
on an exceptional and fully documented basis, and all sole source
procurements

must

meet

the

circumstances

specified

in

RTDs

Procurement Standards Manual.

E. The Board ratifies all Contracts, Contract amendments, and change orders
that are negotiated and executed as authorized by this Resolution.

F. The General Manager shall provide a monthly report to the Board of the
Contracts executed during the previous month pursuant to this Resolution and
shall post the report for access by the public on the agencys website.

G. Transfers of Funds:
(1) The Board must authorize the transfers of funds between operating
expense line items that cumulatively exceed $1,000,000; the General
Manager must authorize any transfers of funds between operating expense
line items that cumulatively are less than or equal to$1,000,000;
(2) The Board must authorize the transfers of funds between capital projects
that cumulatively exceed $1,000,000; the General Manager must

Page 4 of 6

authorize any transfers of funds between capital projects that cumulatively
are less than or equal to $1,000,000; and
(3) The General Manager is authorized to approve transfers of funds among
the line items of an individual capital project regardless of dollar amount.

H. The Board authorizes the General Manager to re-delegate in writing any of the
authorities granted under this Resolution; however, the General Manager shall
retain overall responsibility for the control over all matters conducted under
this Resolution.

I. The Boards powers not delegated to the General Manager and CEO are
reserved to the Board.

Page 5 of 6

Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation
District on the 25
___th day of _____________
2022.
October
________________________________
Vince Buzek
Chair
________________________________
Marjorie Sloan
Secretary

Page 6 of 6

Regional Transportation District

Contracting and Procurement
1660 Blake St.
Denver, CO 80202

Request for Proposal

RFP 123DH077
DOWNTOWN RAIL INTERSECTIONS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (DRIIP) (20% SBE GOAL)

January 11, 2024

RESPONSES MUST BE SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY TO:
https://procurement.opengov.com/portal/rtd-denver

Regional Transportation District
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Sections
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

INTRODUCTION
INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPOSERS
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
PROPOSALS
AWARD PROCESS
LEGAL NOTICE TO PROPOSERS
PROPOSAL CONTENTS CHECKLIST (FORMS TO BE SUBMITTED)
SCOPE OF WORK SERVICES/TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
CONTRACT AWARD AND SIGNATURE PAGE
STATEMENT OF CONTRACT COST
CONSTRUCTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS AND ACCESS BADGES
INSURANCE & BOND REQUIREMENTS
SPECIAL PROVISIONS/ALTERATIONS SPECIAL TERMS
SBE CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS

Attachments:
A - 123DH077 DRIIP SOW
B - 123DH077 Specification Package
C - 123DH077 Light Rail Transit Standard Drawings
D - 123DH077 LRT Design Criteria
E - 123DH077 DESIGN PLANS
F - 123DH077 Attachment F Cost Submittal Form

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

1.

INTRODUCTION

RTD is seeking responses from qualified respondents to provide: Downtown Rail Intersections
Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

1.1.

Summary

RTD is seeking to hire a contractor to perform full-depth reconstructions of five (5) at-grade
light rail intersections.

1.2.

Contact Information

Eva Boyd
Purchasing Agent
Email: eva.boyd@rtd-denver.com
Phone: (303) 299-2215
Department:
Capital Programs-Engineering

1.3.

Timeline
RFP advertised

January 11, 2024

1

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Pre-proposal briefing (NonMandatory)

January 22, 2024, 10:00am
Join on your computer, mobile app or room
device
Click below to join the meeting
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetupjoin/19%3ameeting_NjRkNjYyY2EtMGIzYi00M
mZlLWFlMDktMWQ4NTYwOGE5NDg3%40threa
d.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22051
82089-2b8a-4c82-864baa265b61fa57%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%220
d57f082-2ba3-4dd8-901ebbe48f9209f2%22%7d
Meeting ID: 232 540 842 187
Passcode: LLg6Jw
Download Teams | Join on the web
Or call in (audio only)
+1 720-443-6193,,15803729# United States,
Denver
Phone Conference ID: 158 037 29#
Find a local number | Reset PIN

Inquiry Period

January 26, 2024, 4:00pm

RTD sends responses to written
inquiries

February 2, 2024, 3:00pm

Proposals due

February 13, 2024, 2:00pm

If necessary, oral presentations

RTD anticipates making final
selection.

Week Of February 26, 2024
RTD, 1660 Blake St., Denver, Colorado 80202
or in an online meeting.
March 8, 2024

2

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

2.

INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPOSERS

2.1.

Work

RTD will accept proposals from qualified companies until 2:00 pm on Tuesday, February 13,
2024 via RTD's online procurement portal, OpenGov. This Request for Proposal (RFP) is for
Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal), per the enclosed
specifications and requirements.

2.2.

Cost Type

Payments are anticipated to be made on a Fixed Price basis.

2.3.

Award of Contract

Award of a Contract from this RFP will be based upon Best Value competitive proposal
procedures.

2.4.

Period of Performance

Subject to the Termination provision of the Contract, performance shall commence as of the
date specified in the notice to proceed or, if no date is specified, upon Contractors receipt of
notice to proceed, and shall continue for 4 months (subject to the exercise of option periods, if
any). If mailed, receipt of the notice to proceed is presumed to be five days after mailing.

2.5.

Options for this Contract

There are no option periods for this contract.

2.6.

Small Business Requirement for Contracts with an SBE Goal

RTD has specified a SBE participation goal of 20% for the Work to be performed under the
Contract. Proposers must make adequate good faith efforts to meet this goal in order to be
deemed as a responsive and responsible proposer. Award of the Contract will be conditioned on
meeting the requirements of this section. 49 CFR Part 26.53 and Appendix A of 49 CFR Part 26
shall serve as the criteria for evaluating compliance with the good faith efforts requirements.
Additionally, proposers are required to solicit the support and assistance of RTDs Small
Business Office if they are unable to meet the SBE participation goal assigned to this Contract.
The proposers can meet this requirement in one of two ways:
First, the proposer can meet this goal by demonstrating and documenting its commitments for
participation by SBEs for at least the total percentage identified above or a percentage that
exceeds the goal for the project. The SBE Contract Requirements as well as 49 CFR Part 26.53
explain the procedures that recipients/agencies such as RTD should follow in this situation. SBE
OPTION: For purposes of this section, RTD will only accept SBEs that are currently certified with
the RTD Small Business Office under the NAICS code that coincides with the Scope of Work that
they will execute in this project. All SBEs must be certified prior to the proposal submission,

3

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

except in a design-build or turnkey contracting situation, multi-year projects, or some oncall or work order projects where RTD will explain its procedure in the SBE Contract
Requirements.
Second, if the proposer does not meet the SBE goal identified in this Contract or is able to only
meet part of this goal, it must document adequate good faith efforts. Appendix A to 49 CFR
part 26 clearly states, This means that the proposer must show that it took all necessary and
reasonable steps to achieve a SBE goal or other requirement of this part which, by their scope,
intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, could reasonably be expected to obtain
sufficient SBE participation, even if they were not fully successful. Additionally, SBE Contract
Requirements as well as 49 CFR Part 26.53 explain the good faith efforts procedures that
recipients/agencies such as RTD should follow when a proposer does not meet the goal.

2.7.

Proposals Valid

Proposals shall be valid for a duration of no less than ninety (90) days from proposal
due date.

4

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

3.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

3.1.

General

A. Each proposer is solely responsible for submitting any necessary forms and certifications
that may be required by the RFP. Enclosed is a copy of the Contract contemplated for
award substantially in the form to be executed.
B. A list of all holders (followers) of the RFP is available for view and/or print on the
online procurement portal. The list is obtainable from the RFP advertisement date
through the RFP close date.

3.2.

Option(s)

If RTD has included the potential for options on this Contract, proposals should be adjusted to
cover such option(s). The option quantities or periods contained in the proposal shall be
evaluated in order to determine Contract award. When options have not been evaluated as part
of the award, the exercise of such options will be considered sole source procurements. RTD
will evaluate proposals for award purposes by adding the total proposed price for all options to
the total proposed price for the initial term of the Contract. Award of a Contract containing
options shall not obligate RTD to exercise such option(s).

3.3.

Addenda to RFP

In the event that it becomes necessary to revise any part of this RFP, or if additional
information is necessary to enable potential proposers to make an adequate interpretation of
the provisions of this RFP, an addendum to the RFP will be provided to each recipient of this
RFP through RTD's online procurement portal.

3.4.

Inquiries

Questions about RTD and this RFP shall be directed to Eva Boyd, Purchasing Agent, through
RTDs online procurement portal.
A. From the issuance date of this RFP until RTD selects a proposal for award, Eva Boyd,
Purchasing Agent, is the sole point of contact for RTD and RTDs project team members
concerning this RFP. (In this RFP and the Contract Documents, this point of contact may
be referred to as the Contract Administrator, Contracting Officer, Purchasing Agent,
Buyer, or the like.) Any violation of this condition may be cause for RTD to reject the
offending proposers proposal. If RTD later discovers that the proposer has engaged in
any violations of this condition, RTD may reject the offending proposers proposal or
rescind its Contract award. Proposers must agree not to distribute any part of their
proposals beyond RTD. A proposer that shares information contained in its proposal with
other RTD personnel, RTD project team members, RTD board members, and/or
competing proposer personnel may be disqualified.

5

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

B. Proposers questions must be submitted through RTDs online procurement portal. All
requests for clarifications and/or changes to the form of the Contract, including
suggested changes to the Terms and Conditions, must be made during the Inquiry
Period. RTD has no obligation to respond to questions or requests for clarifications or
amendments that are not submitted through RTDs online procurement portal, nor to
those submitted outside of the Inquiry Period. Except as provided below, RTDs
responses to all inquiries properly submitted will be answered in the form of an
addendum that will be provided to all recipients of this RFP.
C. If the RFP Schedule provides for a pre-proposal briefing (Briefing), RTD will not
respond to any questions regarding the RFP until the Briefing. Firms that have received
this RFP, whether present for the Briefing or not, will receive: (1) a copy of the minutes;
(2) answers to all questions presented; (3) a listing of all recipients of the RFP (current
to date of Briefing), and (4) a copy of the sign-in sheet from the Briefing.
If a Respondent needs assistance using the online procurement portal, Respondents may
access the Help Center for vendor training guides provided by OpenGov ("Software
Administrator"). Respondents may also contact the Software Administrator using the real-time
chat function on the online procurement portal (located in lower right-hand corner of the
screen), or via email at procurement-support@opengov.com for support.

3.5.

Submission & Withdrawal

Respondents shall register on RTDs online procurement portal. Once registered, Respondents
may view and click "Follow" to be a Prospective Respondent for this RFP and will appear on the
Followers list. Respondents that fail to Follow this project will not receive automated Addenda
notifications, nor will they be able to submit a Response in the online procurement portal, and
therefore will be unable to participate, nor be considered for this RFP. Respondents must click
Draft Response to properly begin and submit a Response via the online procurement portal.
RTD will accept responses to this RFP electronically via the online procurement portal until 2:00
pm on Tuesday, February 13, 2024. Responses received after the scheduled due date and time
for submission will not be accepted. Responses submitted in any other format other than via
the online procurement portal, including but not limited to, hard copy (mailed or hand
delivered), facsimile, or emailed submittals, will not be accepted.
RTD and the Software Administrator are not responsible for untimely submissions due to
personal or company internet or hardware limitations, settings or restrictions, internet speed,
power outage, network connection, or use of a malfunctioning electronic device, or the like.
Respondents are solely responsible for the capability of their computer system while responding
to this RFP and for the stability of their internet service. Failure of the Respondent to
successfully submit an electronic Response before the deadline indicated herein shall be at the
Respondents sole risk, and RTD will not accept late and/or improperly submitted Responses.
Once file(s) have been uploaded and the Submission Status shows as Submitted, a

6

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

submission is complete. At that point, the Respondent will also receive an email confirmation
from the online procurement portal. Respondents may withdraw their submittal electronically
via the online procurement portal at any time prior to the scheduled due date and time for
submission.
Proposals that are late will not be accepted.

7

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

4.

PROPOSALS

4.1.

Submission Requirements

A. Any alteration, insertion, or erasure by the proposer in the form of the RFP documents
as originally prepared by RTD shall render the accompanying proposal non-responsive
and may constitute cause for rejection. Conditional proposals or those that take
exception to the RFP documents or Scope of Work may be treated as non-responsive.
B. Proposal Submission. RTDs Purchasing Agent must receive through RTDs online
procurement portal all required documents in a format that is in compliance with The
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 USC 701, Section 508, which requires that the document
be readable by all, including those with disabilities, and marked as such. Proposal
submittal requirements are located in the PROPOSAL CONTENTS CHECKLIST (FORMS
TO BE SUBMITTED).
Your proposal must be received no later than the time and date set forth in the RFP
Schedule.
C. Signatures. Proposals must be signed by a duly authorized official of the firm. Proposals
submitted by consortiums, joint ventures, or teams, although permitted and
encouraged, will not be considered responsive unless it is established that all contractual
responsibility rests solely with one contractor or one legal entity which shall not be a
subsidiary or affiliate with limited resources. Each submittal should indicate the entity
responsible for execution on behalf of the consortium, joint venture, or team.
D. Proposal Format.
1. Technical proposals should not exceed 20 pages. (One page is defined as one
standard 8 x 11-inch sheet of paper in Times New Roman, in no less than 12-point
font.) All charts, graphic displays, etc., must be of readable size. Foldouts to
illustrate particular items are permitted but will be included in page count. Cover
letters should be no longer than two pages.
2. Submission of standard promotional material and corporate literature not specifically
requested by RTD is discouraged. Any such information may not be fully considered
in the evaluation.

4.2.

Technical Proposal

In addition to any information required elsewhere in this RFP and in the Scope of Work, all
proposals shall contain and will be evaluated based on the following sections:
A. A cover letter (maximum two pages) briefly describing the firm or firms (including
subcontractors, if any) on the proposed project team, referencing the RFP by name and
number.

8

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

B. A detailed technical proposal (maximum 20 pages) in narrative form describing the
proposer and proposed team. Proposals shall include the following items in the order
listed below and shall not exceed the page limit indicated above, excluding attachments.
Items that will not be counted in the page limit are: the firms cover letter, rsums, and
certifications. Proposals shall address the following:
1. Previous experience of the proposed team (including subcontractors) and key
personnel in performing on projects of a similar nature and scope.
2. A demonstrated ability to perform under the Contract.
C. Supplemental project information appendix, including:
1. Description, including name of client, of at least two recent projects that
demonstrate successful completion of projects of similar nature and scope. Clients
may be contacted for references.
2. An organizational chart for each firm on the proposed team and rsums for all staff
listed on the organizational chart.
3. Rsums of all proposed key personnel and the availability during Contract
performance periods of all key personnel.
D. Completed forms and certifications required by the RFP.
E. One Open Records copy of your technical proposal per the Colorado Open Records
Act, C.R.S.  24-72-200.1 et seq. (as amended), including the redaction of any
confidential or proprietary information. Submit the Open Records Technical Proposal in
the Proposal Contents Checklist (FORMS TO BE COMPLETED).

4.3.

Contract Cost Proposal

Each proposer shall submit one copy only of the information required below:
A. Cost proposals must clearly identify pricing proposed for the type of Contract to be
awarded. If there are option years available, include option pricing on the cost proposal.
B. One Open Records copy of your cost proposal per the Colorado Open Records Act,
C.R.S.  24-72-200.1 et seq. (as amended), including the redaction of any confidential
or proprietary information. To do this you will have to export the Pricing Form or Cost
Submittal Form, redact sensitive data, and then submit it as the Open Records Cost
Proposal in the Proposal Contents Checklist (FORMS TO BE COMPLETED).
C. All supporting documentation for the cost proposal, including, without limitation:
Information demonstrating to RTD that the proposer has the necessary financial
resources to perform the Contract. This information should include: Financial statement
for the last three years (or since the entity commenced operations, if less than three
years). The most recent financial statements must include either an Auditors Report

9

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Letter or an Accountants Review Letter. The financial statements shall include Balance
Sheets, Statements of Income and Stockholders Equity, and a Statement of Change in
Financial Position. If the proposer is a parent or subsidiary of another entity,
consolidated financial statements are also required. Names of banks or other financial
institutions with which the proposer conducts business; and Letter of credit
commitments (if any).

4.4.

Only One Proposal Accepted

RTD will accept only one proposal for the Work from any one proposer. This includes proposals
that may be submitted under different names by one firm or corporation.

4.5.

Conflicting Information from Proposer

The information and/or pricing provided by the proposer in the required proposal will control in
the event of a conflict with any information and/or pricing the proposer types into RTDs online
procurement portal when submitting the proposal.

10

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

5.

AWARD PROCESS
A. Notification to Successful Proposer. Award decisions of RTD shall be reduced to writing
by the Director of Contracting and Procurement, or delegate, and shall be final. RTD will
notify the successful proposer, if any, by sending a notice of intent to award, which is
subject to any required RTD approval. Following RTD approval, the Purchasing Agent
will initiate the Contract signature process and then issue the notice to proceed with the
executed Contract.
B. Notifications to Unsuccessful Proposers.
1. Pre- and Post-Award Notices of Exclusion. The Purchasing Agent shall notify
unsuccessful proposers through RTDs online procurement portal of exclusion from
award. Requests for a debriefing must be submitted to the Purchasing Agent within
three days of receipt of such notice. Debriefings requested for and provided prior to
Contract award shall address only the requesting proposers proposal; post-award
debriefings may address all proposals submitted. Only one pre-award or post-award
debriefing shall be provided per proposer.
2. Protests. Proposers must submit protests related to this RFP in writing to Purchasing
Agent pursuant to the procedures set forth in RTD's procurement standards manual.
Copies of RTD's protest procedures are available upon request to Purchasing Agent.
Proposers must exhaust all administrative remedies prescribed by RTDs protest
procedures before proceeding to court.
C. Evaluation Criteria. Proposals will be evaluated according to the following criteria, listed
in descending order of importance:

5.1.

Phase 1

No.

Evaluation Criteria

Scoring Method

1.

Experience of the firm(s) and
individuals proposed for key positions
and disciplines.

0-10 Points

Cost

0-10 Points

2.

Weight (Points)
20

(20% of Total)

50

(50% of Total)
3.

Project implementation approach

0-10 Points

10

(10% of Total)
4.

Project control approach (managing
schedule, scope, budget, quality and
document control)

0-10 Points

10

(10% of Total)

11

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)
5.

Qualifications of staff

0-10 Points

10

(10% of Total)

5.2.
No.
1.

Phase 2
Evaluation Criteria
SBE Evaluation

Scoring Method

Weight (Points)

Pass / Fail

100

(100% of Total)

12

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

6.

LEGAL NOTICE TO PROPOSERS

6.1.

Background Investigations

Any proposer awarded a Contract with RTD shall be required to perform background
investigations on all employees selected to perform under this Contract and shall be required to
certify to RTD that it has performed and evaluated such background investigations.

6.2.

Organizational Conflict of Interest

A. The proposer shall review the attached Organizational Conflicts of Interest Disclosure
Requirements and submit its Organizational Conflicts of Interest Certification with the
proposal.
B. If the proposer prepared or assisted RTD in the preparation of a statement of work,
work program, or system specifications to be used in a competitive procurement by
RTD, the proposer will be ineligible to supply the same in connection with this Contract.
The proposer may otherwise compete for RTD business on an equal basis with other
parties.
C. Except as provided above, if RTD determines that a potential conflict exists, the
proposer shall be excluded from award unless the conflict can be avoided or otherwise
resolved through the inclusion of a special Contract provision or other appropriate
means.

6.3.

Insurance and Bond Requirements

Proposer's attention is directed to the section entitled Insurance and Bond Requirements herein.
It is highly recommended that proposers confer with their insurance carriers or brokers in
advance of proposal submission to determine the availability of bonds, insurance certificates
and any endorsements. The cost of such insurance and bonds shall be included in the proposal.

6.4.

SBE Compliance

Proposers must make adequate good faith efforts to meet this goal in order to be deemed as a
responsive and responsible proposer. Award of the Contract will be conditioned on meeting the
requirements of this section. 49 CFR Part 26.53, Appendix A of 49 CFR Part 26 and SBE
Contract Requirements shall serve as the criteria for evaluating compliance with the good faith
efforts requirements.

6.5.

News Releases

RTDs written approval is required prior to any communication with the press or any public
disclosure relating to this RFP or any subsequent awards.

13

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

6.6.

Pre-Award Audit

RTD reserves the right to conduct a pre-award audit to verify labor rates, overhead rates, etc.
should RTD determine that such an audit is required prior to negotiation or award of a Contract.

6.7.

Cost of Proposal Preparation

RTD shall not reimburse proposers for costs incurred for preparation of proposals or required
documentation.

6.8.

Materials Submitted

All materials submitted shall become the property of RTD and will not be returned to the
proposer.

6.9.

Confidentiality

RTD is a public entity subject to the provisions of the Colorado Open Records Act, C.R.S.  2472-200.1 et seq. (CORA), and all materials submitted with this RFP, with the exception
of trade secrets, privileged information, and confidential commercial, financial, geological, or
geophysical data pursuant to C.R.S.  24-72-204(3)(a)(IV), may become public records subject
to inspection by the public at any time after the Contract is executed. Therefore, any
confidential or proprietary information that the proposer discloses to RTD with respect to this
RFP must be clearly designated as confidential or proprietary at the time of disclosure by the
proposer to RTD. RTD shall not disclose properly designated information unless such
information is required to be disclosed by law or court order. In the event of a legal challenge
to the confidentiality of records so designated by the proposer, RTD shall make reasonable
efforts to notify the proposer prior to disclosing any such information, and in some cases may
tender to the proposer the defense of any action filed. By submitting a proposal under this RFP,
the proposer agrees to accept such tender of defense and in all cases assumes exclusive
responsibility for defending its position as to the confidentiality of the requested information.
RTD is not obligated to assist in such defense, and cannot and does not guarantee that the
confidentiality of records so designated will be upheld by a reviewing court. If the proposer
fails to submit a copy of its redacted proposal that may be released under CORA, the
proposer acknowledges that RTD has the authority to disclose, and may disclose in
its discretion, any information contained in the proposal in response to a CORA
request.

6.10. Rights Reserved to RTD
A. All proposers are notified that the execution of a Contract pursuant to this RFP is
dependent upon negotiation of a mutually acceptable Contract with the successful
proposer(s) and subsequent appropriation by RTDs Board of Directors of the necessary
funds. Successful proposers must be prepared to execute the Contract (as may
be amended by the issuance of Addenda) that is provided with this RFP. RTD
has no obligation to accept requested changes to the form of the Contract

14

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

terms beyond the Inquiry Period, and no changes will be made after award to
the successful proposer(s) (other than in respect of typographical errors). If a
proposer does not submit any request changes, the proposer will be deemed
to have accepted the terms, conditions, and requirements of this solicitation.
Requested changes, including additional terms, conditions, and agreements
(such as license agreements, master services agreements, and user
agreements), must be submitted with proposals. At RTDs sole discretion,
RTD may deny any requested changes submitted after the deadline for
proposal submission. Requested changes must be specific (including, as
applicable, RFP section reference, reason for requested change and proposed
revised language) and clearly identified in a proposal. RTD will not accept
blanket exceptions to any or all terms, conditions or requirements of this
solicitation to be negotiated at a later date. At RTDs sole discretion, RTD
may deny requested changes that are embedded by hyperlink or cited by
reference in a proposal and related documents. FAILURE TO ACCEPT THE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN THIS SOLICITATION MAY RESULT IN A
PROPOSER BEING DEEMED NON-RESPONSIVE.
B. It is the intent of RTD to make an award within 60 days from the proposal due date;
however, all proposals shall be valid for no less than ninety (90) days.
C. RTD reserves the right to reject all offers and re-solicit or cancel this RFP if deemed by
RTD to be in its best interest.
D. RTD reserves the right to enter into a Contract with any proposer based upon the initial
proposal or on the basis of a best and final offer without conducting oral discussions.

6.11. Prohibited Interests
A. No employee of RTD or any member of its governing body shall have any personal or
financial interest, direct or indirect, in this Contract or any contract executed
subsequently in connection with this Contract during his or her tenure or for one year
thereafter. No director, officer, employee, or agent of RTD shall be interested in any
contract or transaction with RTD except in his or her official representative capacity.
B. No member of or delegate to Congress, or resident commissioner, shall be admitted to
any share or part of any Contract awarded, or to any benefit arising from it.

6.12. Competition in Subcontracting
Proposers shall select subcontractors (including suppliers) on a competitive basis to the
maximum practicable extent consistent with the objectives and requirements of any Contract
awarded.

15

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

6.13. Personnel Availability
By submitting its proposal, the proposer certifies that it and each of its subcontractors possess
an adequate supply of workers qualified to perform the work specified within the Contract
schedule; that there is no existing or impending dispute between it and any labor organization;
and that it is prepared to comply fully with prevailing wage requirements, minimum wages,
maximum hours of work, and equal opportunity provisions contained in the Contract Terms and
Conditions.

16

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

7.

PROPOSAL CONTENTS CHECKLIST (FORMS TO BE
SUBMITTED)

Note to Respondents: In order to download the submittal forms in the "Forms to be
Completed and Submittal Requirements section," Respondents must download them
directly from the online procurement portal.

7.1.

In addition to any information required elsewhere in this Solicitation and
in the Scope of Work, all responses shall contain and will be evaluated
based on the following sections:

7.1.1.
Name and Title of Respondents Authorized Official*
The following questions are prepared in electronic format, and the Respondent is required to
respond in this format. All required certifications, documentation, and response information
below shall be answered and provided by an authorized official with binding authority.
Electronic selections and confirmations shall be as binding as a signature from the authorized
official submitting this response on behalf of the Respondent.
Please type the full name and title of the authorized official electronically submitting this
response.
*Response required
7.1.2.

On behalf of my organization, I certify that I have read, understood, and agree to be
bound to the terms in the General Instructions, Solicitation Instructions, Award
Process, and Legal Notice in this solicitation, and that I am authorized to submit this
response on behalf of my organization.*
 Please confirm
*Response required
7.1.3.
TECHNICAL PROPOSAL*
Submit your Technical Proposal per the instructions in the solicitation.
*Response required
7.1.4.
Open Records Copy of Technical Proposal
Submit your Open Records Copy of Technical Proposal per the instructions in the solicitation.
7.1.5.
COST PROPOSAL *
Submit your Cost Proposal per the instructions in the solicitation.
*Response required
7.1.6.
Open Records Copy of Cost Proposal
Submit your Open Records Copy of Cost Proposal per the instructions in the solicitation.

17

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

7.1.7.
Form of Bid Security Being Submitted?*
 Bid Bond
 Cashier's Check
 Cash
 Certified Check
*Response required
7.1.8.
Bid Security *
A. If Contractor selected "Cashier's Check or Certified Check" above, Contractor shall
Upload a copy of the signed check (front and back). Actual Bond document(s) must be
received by RTD Procurement Agent within 5 business days.
B. If Contractor selected "Bid Bond" above, Contractor shall upload a fully executed bid
bond obtained from an authorized Surety Company. Actual Bond document(s) must be
received by RTD Procurement Agent within 5 business days.
C. If Contractor selected "Cash" above, Contractor shall deliver the cash to Eva Boyd at
1660 Blake Street, Denver, CO, 80202 in a sealed envelope clearly labeled as Bid
Security with the Project No (RFP 123DH077) and Title (Downtown Rail Intersections
Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)) before the deadline to submit
responses to this solicitation. The Contractor shall also upload a letter here stating that
the Contractor is delivering their bid security in the form of cash. Contractor shall
understand that Bid Security in the form of "Cash" not physically received in original and
complete form by RTD before the deadline will be cause for disqualification.
D. The bidder must enclose with the bid its bid security (e.g., bidders bond or certified
check) in the amount of five percent (5%) of the bid amount, which the bidder agrees is
to be paid to and become the property of RTD, as partial liquidated damages, should the
bid be accepted and Contract awarded and the bidder fails to enter into the Contract in
the form prescribed and/or to furnish the required bonds and insurance certificates
within ten days after Contract award.
*Response required
7.1.9.
SBE CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS CERTIFICATION*
The Respondent hereby certifies that it has reviewed, understands, and agrees to comply with
the requirements of RTDs SBE Contract Requirements (available at : https://cdn.rtddenver.com/image/upload/v1702655406/SBE_Program_Contract_Requirements_darpqq.pdf)
and 49 CFR Part 26 for the entire duration of this Contract. The Respondent also agrees to:
A. Comply with and implement all requirements of RTDs Contract Requirements and 49
CFR Part 26 in the award and administration of subcontracts under this Contract;

18

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

B. Perform its obligations and shall require each Subcontractor regardless of the tier to
perform its respective obligations under this Contract and the Subcontract(s) in
accordance with RTDs SBE Contract Requirements;
C. Provide each Subcontractor with a copy of RTDs SBE Contract Requirements (available
at the link above); and
D. Insert all flown-down provisions in SBE Flow-Down Provision section of the Contract into
each Subcontract regardless of the tier.
 Please confirm
*Response required
7.1.10.
SBE Required Enclosures*
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.


SBE_Required_Enclosures_-_E...

*Response required
7.1.11.
ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
A. Organizational conflict of interest means that, because of other activities or relationships
with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial
assistance or advice to RTD, or the person's objectivity in performing the Work is or
might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage.
B. Each firm responding to the Solicitation shall provide the statement described in
paragraph (c). This requirement will apply individually to any of the firms consultants or
lower-tier subcontractors that also furnish Work in performance of the Contract to be
awarded.
C. The statement must contain the following:
1. Name of the firm and the number of the Solicitation in question.
2. The name, address, telephone number, and federal taxpayer identification number,
if applicable, of the firm.
3. A description of the nature of the Work rendered by or to be rendered on the
Contract or related to the Contract.
4. A statement of any past (within the past 12 months), present, or currently planned
financial, contractual, organizational, or other interests relating to the performance
of the Contract. For contractual interests, such statement must include the name,
address, and telephone number of the client or client(s), a description of the services
rendered to the previous client(s), and the name of a responsible officer or
employee of the firm who is knowledgeable about the services rendered to each

19

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

client, if, in the 12 months preceding the date of the statement, services were
rendered to RTD or any other client respecting the same subject matter of the
Solicitation or directly relating to such subject matter. The client and contract
number under which the services were rendered must also be included, if applicable.
For financial interests, the statement must include the nature and extent of the
interest and any entity or entities involved in the financial relationship. For these and
any other interests, enough information must be provided to allow a meaningful
evaluation of the potential effect of the interest on the performance of the Contract.
5. A statement that no actual or potential conflict of interest or unfair competitive
advantage exists with respect to the Work to be provided in connection with the
Contract or that any actual or potential conflict of interest or unfair competitive
advantage that does or may exist with respect to the Contract or related to the
Contract has been communicated as part of the statement required by section (c).
D. Failure of a firm to provide the required statement may result in the firm being
determined ineligible for award. Misrepresentation or failure to report any fact may
result in the assessment of penalties associated with false statements or such other
provisions provided for by law or regulation.
ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST CERTIFICATION
If the Respondent is aware of information bearing on whether a potential conflict may exist, the
Respondent shall provide a disclosure statement describing this information as described in the
Disclosure Requirements above.
 The Respondent IS aware of any information bearing on the existence of any potential
organizational conflict of interest as described in the Disclosure Requirements.
 The Respondent IS NOT aware of any information bearing on the existence of any potential
organizational conflict of interest as described in the Disclosure Requirements.
7.1.12.
Current W9 *
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.


02.12_W9_updated_1822.pdf

*Response required
7.1.13.
KEY PERSONNEL*
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.


Key_Personnel.docx

*Response required
7.1.14.
BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION CERTIFICATION*
Please download the below documents, complete, and upload.

20

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)



04.12.01_Background_Investi...

*Response required
7.1.15.

The Respondent understands that any condition stated above, clarification of the
above, or information submitted on or with this form other than requested will
render the quotation non-responsive.*
 Please confirm
*Response required

21

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

8.

SCOPE OF WORK SERVICES/TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS

See Attachments for the Scope of Work/Technical Specifications.

8.1.

Scope of Work - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project
(DRIIP)

Please see attached Scope of Work (SOW), Specifications, Drawings, Cost Submittal Form

22

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

9.

CONTRACT AWARD AND SIGNATURE PAGE
CONTRACT AWARD AND SIGNATURE PAGE
RTD Contract Number RFP 123DH077

ISSUED BY
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St.
Denver, Colorado 80202 - 1399
Notices to: Eva Boyd, Contract Administrator
CONTRACTOR
[Name]
[Address]
[City, State, ZIP]
Notices to: [CONTRACT REP NAME], Contract Representative
Invoices: Submit invoices as stated in the Section entitled, "Statement of Contract Cost,"
Invoicing.
Products/Services: Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)
Contract Cost: [Inclusive of any fixed fee and cost detailed on Statement of Contract Cost]
Type: Fixed Price
Effective Date: Date of execution by RTD of this Contract Award and Signature Page
Period of Performance: Subject to the Termination provision of the Contract, performance shall
commence as of the date specified in the notice to proceed or, if no date is specified, upon
Contractors receipt of notice to proceed, and shall continue for 4 months (subject to the
exercise of any option periods, if any). If mailed, receipt of the notice to proceed is presumed to
be five days after mailing.
This Contract consists of: (1) Contract Award and Signature Page; (2) Statement of Contract
Cost; (3) Scope of Work/Technical Specifications (provided in Solicitation); (4) Terms and
Conditions, (5) Contract-Specific Documents and Requirements; and (6) Attachments. These
Contract Documents constitute the entire Contract between the parties.
Contractors Agreement
Contractor agrees to perform the Work identified above and on the continuation pages for the
consideration stated herein and to otherwise perform according to the terms of the
Contract. In executing this Contract, the Contractor warrants that it is familiar with the Scope
of Work attached and that it is qualified to provide the associated level of effort required to

23

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

successfully complete such tasks and that it can satisfactorily perform such tasks within the
Contract Cost.
FOR [CONTRACTOR (ALL CAPS PLEASE)]
By: __________________________
Name (print): __________________________ Title: __________________________
Date: __________________________
Award
Regional Transportation District hereby accepts your offer to perform the Work identified above
and on the continuation pages, for the consideration stated above, and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the Contract.
FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
By: __________________________
Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO
Date: __________________________
Approved as to legal form for the Regional Transportation District
By: __________________________
Name (print): __________________________, Legal Counsel
Date: __________________________

24

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

10. STATEMENT OF CONTRACT COST
For the satisfactory performance and completion of the Work, RTD will pay the Contractor
compensation as set forth below. Capitalized terms shall have the meaning prescribed in the
Contract, unless the context requires otherwise.

10.1. Term
Subject to the Termination provision of the Contract, performance shall commence as of the
date specified in the notice to proceed or, if no date is specified, upon Contractors receipt of
notice to proceed, and shall continue for 4 months. If mailed, receipt of the notice to proceed is
presumed to be five days after mailing.

10.2. Compensation
A. This is a fixed-price Contract with a maximum price not to exceed [TOTAL CONTRACT
PRICE], within which price Contractor agrees to complete the Work as per the Contract
Documents. Compensation for Work shall be on a fixed price per unit of supplies
ordered and for installation of such equipment, if required, and/or on a fixed price per
hour for services in accordance with the negotiated pricing schedule included with this
Statement of Contract Cost. Payments shall be made in accordance with the Invoicing
terms included with this Statement of Contract Cost.
B. All prices, rates and costs shall be inclusive of all fees associated with the Contractor's
efforts, including but not limited to salaries, benefits, expenses, overhead,
administration, profits, and outside consultant fees. No hourly charges shall exceed any
hourly rates identified in this Statement of Contract Cost or Contract amendment.
Contractor shall not invoice separately for mileage, travel time, parking expenses or any
other miscellaneous charges.
C. RTD shall not pay the Contractor for any Work performed or for any cost incurred by the
Contractor or subcontractors prior to the Period of Performance, unless those costs are
incurred pursuant to RTD written notice to proceed and the costs are directly related to
deliverable items set forth in the Scope of Work. RTD shall not be required to pay any
amount in excess of the Contract Cost, unless the Contractor has secured a written
amendment to this Contract providing for such increase.

10.3. Discounts
If a prompt-payment discount is negotiated, its terms will be specifically identified in this
Statement of Contract Cost. For purposes of earning such discount, payment shall be deemed
tendered as of the date such payment is placed in the U.S. Mail.

25

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

10.4. Invoicing (Monthly)
A. Not later than ten days following the end of each calendar month within the Period of
Performance, the Contractor shall submit an invoice covering Work performed over the
preceding month.
1. Invoices shall include:
a. The Contractors legal name;
b. The Contract number;
c. The Purchase Order number;
d. The period covered by the invoice;
e. The work order(s), if any, covered by the invoice;
f.

The total Contract Cost;

g. The total amount due on the invoice, specifying amount of Fixed Fee and
reimbursable costs, respectively, due under the invoice, and all reimbursable cost
documentation as described below; and
h. All other information specifically required by the Scope of Work.
2. Contractor shall submit the following with its invoices:
a. A Monthly Progress Report detailing all Work accomplished during that month.
Monthly Progress Reports shall be in narrative form, brief and informal in
content, but shall include:
i.

A quantitative description detailing all Work performed and percentage of
completion by phases of the Scope of Work and required deliverable items;

ii. Identification of any current or anticipated problems which may impede
Contractors performance and the proposed corrective action; and
iii. A brief discussion of the Work to be performed during the next monthly
reporting period.
3. Submit invoices to:
AP.Department@RTD-Denver.com

10.5. Small Business Enterprise Invoicing Requirements
Contractor shall also submit the following with its invoices:
A. SBE Monthly Participation Report (provided with SBE Contract Requirements).

26

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

10.6. Payment
A. Payment to the Contractor shall be made upon RTDs determination that all Work
submitted for payment has been performed and all information and documentation
required under the invoice and work order, if any, has been submitted. Payment will be
made to the Contractor within 30 days after RTD approval of submitted invoices.
1. Prompt Payment of Subcontractors. The Contractor agrees that:
a. It shall pay its subcontractor(s) any undisputed amounts for the satisfactory
performance of their Work within seven days of the Contractors receipt of
payment from RTD for such Work;
b. Within 30 days after a subcontractors Work has been satisfactorily completed
and accepted by RTDs Project Manager or by the Contractor, whichever is
earlier, the Contractor shall make full payment to the subcontractor of any
retainage the Contractor has kept related to such subcontractors Work, unless a
claim is filed against the subcontractor related to such Work;
c. Failure to comply with the above may give RTD just cause to impose one or
more of the following penalties, until the required payment(s) to the Contractors
subcontractor(s) is satisfied, unless RTD has given prior written approval to the
Contractor for the delay or postponement of payment(s): (1) withhold payments
to the Contractor; (2) assess sanctions against the Contractor; (3) assess the
subcontractors indirect or consequential damages against the Contractor; (4)
disqualify the Contractor from future bidding on RTD contracts as nonresponsible; (5) enforce the payment bond against the Contractor; (6) pay the
subcontractor(s) directly and deduct this amount from any retainage owed to the
Contractor; (7) provide notice of default to the Contractor, stating the potential
for termination or suspension of the Contract, in whole or in part; (8) issue a
stop-work order until the subcontractor(s) is paid, which order shall constitute an
unauthorized delay under the Contract that could result in liquidated damages
against the Contractor. Unless approved by RTD, the Contractors failure to
comply with this Section is a material breach of the Contract;
d. It shall ensure that tiered subcontractors comply with this Section and that they
insert provisions (a) and (b) of this Section into all lower-tiered subcontractor
agreements; and
e. On a monthly basis, it shall submit a report of its payments to its SBE
subcontractors, using Form E. The Contractor shall ensure that its SBE
subcontractors at every tier submit a monthly report of their receipt of payments
from the Contractor, using Form E-2. All report forms are attached to the
Contract and shall be submitted to the RTD Small Business Office, 1660 Blake

27

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Street  BLK-31, Denver, Colorado 80202 or by email to RTD SBOs designated
compliance officer for this Contract.
f.

For federally funded contracts with a DBE goal, see the DBE Contract
Requirements provisions on prompt payment of DBE subcontractors, which
include monthly reporting requirements. The DBE Contract Requirements shall
control in the event of a conflict with this Section.

g. For locally funded contracts with an SBE goal, see the SBE Contract
Requirements provisions on prompt payment of SBE subcontractors, which
include monthly reporting requirements. The SBE Contract Requirements shall
control in the event of a conflict with this Section.

28

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

11. CONSTRUCTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
11.1. DEFINITIONS
A. AS-BUILT DRAWINGS: A required submittal at the end of the Work from the
Contractor showing the actual quantities, dimensions, and locations of the Work
performed under the Contract. As-Built Drawings must be stamped and signed by a
Colorado Professional Engineer.
B. BASELINE SCHEDULE: The Contractors schedule to be provided to the Contracting
Officer before starting Work, which may differ from the Contract Schedule provided by
RTD in the Invitation for Bids or Request for Proposals. It shall be used as the basis to
establish the Monthly Progress Schedule. A Contractors Baseline Schedule is not the
Term of Performance or the Contract Schedule unless made so by a Contract
Amendment.
C. BID or PROPOSAL: The Bid or offer or Proposal of the Bidder or Proposer for the Work
when made out and submitted on the prescribed Bid or Proposal form, as directed by
the Invitation for Bids or Request for Proposals, and properly signed and guaranteed
and including the schedule of bid or proposed items. The Bid or Proposal will be
incorporated as an essential part of the Contract.
D. BIDDER or PROPOSER: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or combination
thereof submitting a Bid or Proposal for the Work contemplated, acting directly or
through a duly authorized representative.
E. CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS: The graphic and pictorial representation of the Work
to be performed, including the design, location and dimensions of the Work, and
generally including plans, elevations, sections, details, schedules, and diagrams.
F. CONTRACT: The executed document that controls the rights and duties of the parties
and consists of the Contract Documents.
G. CONTRACT COST: The total amount payable by RTD to the Contractor for the
performance of the Work under the Contract, which is stated in the Statement of
Contract Cost.
H. CONTRACT DOCUMENTS: Documents that are made part of the Contract and any
amendments, change notices or change orders that result in an amendment to the
Contract, including:
1. the Invitation for Bids or Request for Proposals and any addenda,
2. the Bid or Proposal,
3. the Construction Drawings,

29

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

4. the Technical Specifications,
5. the Scope of Work (which may be included in the Technical Specifications),
6. the Record Documents,
7. the Contract Award and Signature Page;
8. the Statement of Contract Cost;
9. Terms and Conditions, including:
a. the Construction Terms and Conditions,
b. Terms and Conditions that supplement the Construction Terms and Conditions, if
any,
c. Special Provisions/Alterations, if any, and
d. Federally Required Terms and Conditions, if applicable;
10. The following Contract-Specific Documents and Requirements:
a. Insurance and Bond Requirements,
b. Key Personnel Document,
c. Completed Certifications, and
d. DBE/SBE Contract Requirements, if applicable; and
11. any Attachments.
I. CONTRACT SCHEDULE or TERM OF PERFORMANCE: The period of time allowed in
the Contract Documents for completion of the Work. The Work is required to be done by
the end of this period of time. The Term of Performance and all milestones constitute
the Contract Schedule, which is established by RTD in the Contract (usually the
Technical Specifications) and does not change unless changed by a Contract
Amendment.
J. CONTRACTING OFFICER: The General Manager of RTD or such person(s) as he/she
shall designate to act on his/her behalf in writing. Whenever the term Contracting
Officer shall appear in the Contract, the term shall also include his/her duly authorized
representative(s), which may include the RTD Project Manager, Contract Administrator,
Purchasing Agent, Buyer, or the like. At the Work site, the Contracting Officers duly
authorized representative is generally the RTD Project Manager.
K. CONTRACTOR: The person or organization identified as the Contractor in the Contract
Documents and referred to throughout the Contract Documents as if singular in number.

30

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

The term Contractor includes the Contractors authorized representative, employees,
agents, and subcontractors.
L. DAY: A calendar day, unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents.
M. DUE DILIGENCE: The measure of diligence and skill required of a good and competent
contractor in bidding or proposing and performing the Work as contemplated by peers in
the industry and measured by standard contracting practices commensurate with the
duty to be performed and the individual circumstances of the situation.
N. FINAL ACCEPTANCE: Final Acceptance of the Work occurs when the Work is fully,
completely, and finally accomplished in full, absolute, and strict compliance with the
Contract Documents, including As-Built Drawings.
O. GENERAL FLOAT TIME: The time period differences between the milestones and the
completion date established by RTD (according to the Contract Schedule contained in
the Invitation for Bids, Request for Proposals, Technical Specifications or the Scope of
Work) and any earlier milestones and/or completion date in the Baseline Schedule or
Monthly Progress Schedule. General Float Time is also the time period that the
Contractor has put into its schedule and noted in some form as float.
P. PROJECT: The intended end product (facility, parking lot, road, building, equipment,
etc.) of the Contract in full compliance with the Technical Specifications including the
Scope of Work.
Q. PROJECT MANAGER (PM): At the Work site, the Project Manager is the duly
authorized representative of both the Contracting Officer and the RTD Representative
and has the authority to act for and on behalf of RTD in all matters connected with this
Contract, unless the Contractor is otherwise notified in writing by either the Contracting
Officer or the RTD Representative. [The level of authority flows from the Contracting
Officer to the RTD Representative to the Project Manager.] The Project Manager or PM
includes the PMs duly authorized agents or representatives.
R. RECORD DOCUMENTS: All drawings, including As-Built Drawings and Shop Drawings,
Technical Specifications, and related documents marked to record all changes made
during construction to reflect actual conditions; all submitted schedules including all
updated Monthly Progress Schedules; and daily logs or diaries signed by the
superintendent of record.
S. REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, RTD, and DISTRICT: The Regional
Transportation District, a political subdivision of the State of Colorado, and its authorized
representatives including the Contracting Officer.
T. RTD REPRESENTATIVE or ENGINEER: RTDs Assistant General Manager for Capital
Programs or his/her delegate who has the authority to act for and on behalf of RTD in

31

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

all matters connected with this Contract. At the Work site, the RTD Representative is
generally the RTD Project Manager.
U. SCOPE OF WORK: The general description of the Work to be performed and the
responsibilities of Contractor in connection with the Work.
V. SHOP DRAWINGS: Items such as detail drawings, calculations, and catalog cuts,
which are prepared by the Contractor to supplement or detail Construction Drawings or
Technical Specifications, and which are contractual requirements or are prepared at the
Contractors option to detail its Work. Shop Drawings shall include those drawings,
plans, lists, schedules, diagrams, catalogs, and other details, charts, calculations, and
data necessary to control the Work adequately.
W. SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: Substantial Completion occurs when all Work is
sufficiently complete to allow RTD full use of the Work for its intended purpose, and
such items of Work that remain to be done are minor in nature and can be accomplished
without significant interference with RTD operations.
X. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS: All written material specifications, written equipment
specifications, drawings, designs, terms, conditions, criteria, Scope of Work details
(including all Work requirements and restrictions), directives, etc., for the materials and
equipment to be installed or constructed and the Work to be performed.
Y. WORK: The Work is comprised of the completed Work including the construction
required by the Contract Documents performed to the complete satisfaction of RTD, and
includes all labor necessary to produce such construction, all materials and equipment
incorporated or to be incorporated in such construction, and final clean-up.

11.2. LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROGRAMS:
1. In connection with the performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall cooperate
with RTD in meeting its commitments and goals with regard to the utilization of
small business enterprises (SBEs) and disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs).
The Contractor shall use its best efforts to ensure that SBEs and DBEs have the
opportunity to compete for and participate in subcontract Work under this Contract.
2. If this Contract has been assigned a DBE or an SBE goal, the Contractor, to be
responsive, must comply with all the terms contained in the DBE or SBE Contract
Requirements, as applicable.
3. To be responsible under this Contract and to be considered responsible for future
work with RTD, the Contractor agrees to make reasonable efforts to encourage
participation of SBEs and DBEs through the use of several or all of the following nonexclusive methods: arranging solicitations through all reasonable and available

32

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

means to get bids from SBEs and DBEs (e.g., attendance at pre-bid meetings,
advertising, written notices, contacting SBE and DBE chambers or organizations,
etc.); taking steps to follow up on the initial solicitations (e.g., provide information
and time); setting aside time for assistance to subcontractors in preparing bids,
offers, quantities, and specifications; negotiating in good faith with subcontractors to
increase SBE and DBE participation; purchasing or renting equipment, materials,
supplies and services from SBEs and DBEs; using Contractor Controlled Insurance
Packages; breaking down the Work into more and smaller subcontracts to gain more
participation from SBE and DBE subcontractors; not requiring bonds from
subcontractors; assisting SBEs and DBEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, or
insurance; and facilitating delivery and payment schedules so as to maximize
potential participation of SBEs and DBEs.
B. NONDISCRIMINATION: In accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, as
amended, 42 U.S.C.  2000d, Section 303 of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as
amended, 42 U.S.C.  6102, Section 202 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
42 U.S.C.  12132, and federal transit law at 49 U.S.C.  5332, Contractor agrees that it
will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race,
color, creed, national origin, sex, age, or disability. In addition, Contractor agrees to
comply with applicable federal implementing regulations.
C. NONCOMPLIANCE: In the event of the Contractors noncompliance with the
nondiscrimination provision of the Contract or noncompliance with RTDs DBE/SBE
programs, RTD shall impose such Contract sanctions as it may determine to be
appropriate, including but not limited to:
1. Withholding of payments under the Contract until the Contractor complies;
2. Cancellation, termination, or suspension of the Contract, in whole or in part; and/or
3. Determination by RTD that the Contractor is not a responsible contractor for the
purposes of doing future RTD work.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION: The Contractor shall be responsible for the
protection and preservation of the general environment along and adjacent to
construction sites from its activities, and shall use every precaution necessary to prevent
damage or injury to such environment, unless the removal, alteration, or destruction of
such property is provided for under the Contract. At all times, the Contractor shall
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local governments and agencies laws,
rules, ordinances and regulations, and those of any other entities or authorities under
whose control or direction the Work is performed, all Contract Documents including all
Technical Specifications, Construction Drawings, footnotes, etc., and all supplier and
product manufacturer specifications.

33

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

1. DRAINAGE, EROSION, AND SILTING: The Contractor shall take all necessary
measures to control erosion and silting of rivers, streams, and impoundments
(ponds, lakes, and reservoirs). Construction of drainage facilities as well as
performance of other Work which will contribute to the control of erosion and
siltation shall be carried out in conjunction with clearing and grubbing and earthwork
operations. The Contractor shall refer to the Technical Specifications for detailed
requirements on erosion and sediment control.
2. WATER POLLUTION: The Contractor shall exercise every reasonable precaution to
prevent pollution of rivers, streams, or impoundments. Pollutants such as chemicals,
fuels, lubricants, bitumens, raw sewage and other harmful wastes shall not be
discharged into or alongside rivers, streams, and impoundments, or into the natural
or man-made channels leading to them.
3. AIR POLLUTION: The Contractor must submit evidence to RTD that the governing
air pollution criteria will be met. In complying with this Section, the Contractor
agrees to comply with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued
pursuant to the Air Pollution Control Act, 42 USC 7401, et seq., and any other laws,
rules and regulations of the entities or authorities under whose control or direction
the Work is performed.
4. DUST CONTROL: Contractor shall be responsible for control of dust related to its
construction activities during performance of this Contract. Between the Contractor
and RTD, the RTD PM is the sole judge in determining the sufficiency of the
Contractors dust-control measures. Contractor shall use non-toxic substances to
control dust and shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, etc.;
Construction Drawings; and supplier/manufacturer specifications.
5. NOISE/VIBRATIONS: In performance of this Contract, Contractor shall comply with
all applicable noise and vibration laws, rules, ordinances and regulations. Contractor
shall maintain its equipment in good working order to minimize noise and shall use
its best efforts to ensure that significant vibration and noise-generating activities
occur only during the daylight hours.
6. ASBESTOS: Contractor is advised that RTD properties may have building materials
that contain asbestos. The asbestos may be (1) confirmed asbestos-containing
material (ACM) (verified to be greater than 1% by laboratory analysis); (2)
presumed to be asbestos-containing material (PACM); or (3) material with the
presence of asbestos (materials containing trace-1% asbestos). Prior to disturbing
any building material, Contractor shall provide to the RTD Safety and Environmental
Division a summary of the scope of Work planned at that building, including specific
Work area/location and specific Work practices. The RTD Safety and Environmental
Division will review the scope of Work in conjunction with asbestos inspection

34

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

information to determine if any asbestos material will be impacted and what steps
are necessary (if any) prior to disturbing the building material. In addition,
Contractor shall obtain written clearance to conduct Work from the RTD Safety and
Environmental Division prior to disturbing any building material. Contractor shall
obtain this clearance by contacting RTDs Environmental Compliance Manager, Walt
Pierce, in the Public Safety Division at 303-299-4083.
Contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local asbestos
regulations. The application or installation of any material or product with the
presence of asbestos is prohibited by RTD. Contractor shall be responsible for all
costs associated with removal of any installation or application of material with the
presence of asbestos (detectable levels of asbestos). Contractor shall provide RTD
with manufacturer certifications that products used do not contain the presence of
asbestos (detectable levels of asbestos) or provide RTD with product-testing data
that demonstrates the products do not contain the presence of asbestos fibers.
E. PROHIBITED INTERESTS: No employee of RTD or any member of its governing body
shall have any personal or financial interest, direct or indirect, in this Contract or any
contract executed subsequently in connection with this Contract during his or her tenure
or for one year thereafter. No director, officer, employee, or agent of RTD shall be
interested in any contract or transaction with the District except in his or her official
representative capacity.
F. ANTI-KICKBACK PROVISION: The Contractor is prohibited from inducing, by any
means, any person employed under this Contract to give up any part of the
compensation to which he/she is otherwise entitled.
G. CONTRACT HEADINGS: The headings of the Articles and Sections of this Contract are
inserted for reference purposes and are not restrictive as to content.
H. LAWS GOVERNING: The laws (statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, guidelines,
codes, building codes, RTD requirements, etc. and the common law) of the State of
Colorado and the municipality, county and/or district where the Work, or any portion of
it, is performed or supplied and applicable federal laws, rules, regulations, and Executive
Orders shall govern this Contract.
I. COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES: The Contractor warrants that no person
or selling agency has been employed or retained to solicit or secure this Contract upon
an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent
fee, excepting bona fide employees or bona fide established commercial or selling
agencies maintained by the Contractor for the purpose of securing business. For breach
or violation of this warranty, RTD shall have the right to annul this Contract without
liability or, at its discretion, to deduct from the Contract Cost or consideration, or

35

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

otherwise recover, the full amount of such commission, percentage, brokerage, or
contingent fee.
J. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE: Any inconsistency in this Contract shall be resolved by
giving precedence in the following order:
1. Amendments to the Contract, if any;
2. Special Provisions/Alterations, if any;
3. Federally Required Terms and Conditions, if any;
4. The following Contract-Specific Documents and Requirements:
(i) Insurance and Bond Requirements,
(ii) Key Personnel Document,
(iii) Completed Certifications, and
(iv) DBE/SBE Contract Requirements, if any;
5. The Contract Award and Signature Page;
6. Terms and Conditions that supplement the Construction Terms and Conditions, if
any;
7. the Construction Terms and Conditions;
8. Statement of Contract Cost;
9. Change Notices, Change Orders, representations and other instructions from the
Contracting Officer that amend, or will lead to amendments of, the Contract;
10. the Technical Specifications, provided that (i) if, and to the extent that, the Technical
Specifications provide for a higher standard or more stringent requirement than the
Terms and Conditions (including the Construction Terms and Conditions,
supplemental Terms and Conditions, and Federally Required Terms and Conditions),
the Technical Specifications shall be given precedence in such respects; and (ii) in
the event of conflict or inconsistency between provisions of the Technical
Specifications, the more stringent shall be given precedence over the less stringent;
11. the Construction Drawings - Larger-scale Construction Drawings shall be given
precedence over smaller-scale Construction Drawings (for example: 1 = 1 is larger
scale than 1 = 40 and 1 = 1 is larger than 1/8=1). Where appearing on
drawings, computed dimensions shall govern over scaled dimensions;
12. the Scope of Work;
13. Attachments (other than the Scope of Work and Technical Specifications); and
14. the Record Documents. Unless expressly agreed by RTD in the form of a Special
Provision/Alteration or Contract amendment, any agreement, license, provision, or

36

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

other document not listed above but made a part of this Contract shall be deemed
an Attachment for purposes of determining Contract order of
precedence.Notwithstanding the above, discrepancies between Construction
Drawings and Technical Specifications will be reviewed in accordance with PRECONSTRUCTION RIGHTS AND DUTIES, AND USE OF DOCUMENTS - TECHNICAL
SPECFICATIONS.
K. PROTECTING RTDS INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH
CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT:
Any contractor or subcontractor that has been determined by RTD to be non-responsible
or incompetent is automatically suspended and debarred from doing Work on this
Project. The Contractor shall not enter into any subcontract with a contractor or
subcontractor that has been debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment unless
there is a compelling reason to do so. If the Contractor intends to subcontract with a
party that is debarred, suspended or proposed for debarment, a corporate officer or
designee of the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, before
entering into such subcontract. The notice must include the following:
1. The name of the subcontractor;
2. The Contractors knowledge of the reasons for the subcontractor being on the list of
parties excluded from procurement programs;
3. The compelling reason(s) for doing business with the subcontractor, notwithstanding
its inclusion on the list of parties excluded from procurement programs; and
4. The systems and procedures the Contractor has established to ensure that it is fully
protecting RTDs interests when dealing with such subcontractor in view of the
specific basis for the partys debarment, suspension, or proposed debarment.
L. HOLD HARMLESS: The Contractor agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless
RTD, its directors, managers, employees, agents and assigns, from and against any and
all claims, suits, demands, liabilities, and court awards including costs, expenses, and
reasonable attorneys fees, to the extent such claims are caused, in whole or in part, by:
1. any act or omission of, or breach of contract by, the Contractor, its employees,
agents, subcontractors, or assignees arising from, related to, in connection with, or
in any way involving Work performed or equipment and materials provided under
this Contract;
2. any alleged infringement of any patent rights resulting from Work done by the
Contractor; and
3. the use of any patented material, process, device, or article that may enter into the
Work covered by this Contract;

37

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

but not to the extent such claims are caused solely by any act or omission by RTD,
its directors, managers, employees, agents, or other contractors or assignees. The
Contractor, at its own expense, will be associated with RTD in the settlement or
defense of any claims or litigation arising out of the performance of this
Contract.The Contractor agrees to fully cooperate with and assist RTD in all suits,
claims, and demands arising from,, related to, in connection with, or in any way
involving Work performed or equipment and materials provided under the Contract
or that are based upon evidence (including observations) that the Contractor or its
employees may have obtained while performing the Work. Failure to cooperate and
assist RTD when requested may be a breach of the Contract and/or result in a
determination that the Contractor is ineligible for future RTD work. To the extent this
section is more expansive than permitted by law, it shall not be null and void, but,
rather, shall be conformed to be consistent with and to follow the applicable law. To
the extent inconsistent, shall be modified to conform to existing law.
M. NOTICE OF CLAIM OR ACTION FILED: The Contractor shall give RTD through the
Contracting Officer immediate written notice of any suit or action filed or any claim or
demand made against the Contractor, its employees, agents, subcontractors or
assignees arising from, related to, in connection with or in any way involving Work
performed or equipment and materials provide under this Contract. The Contractor shall
furnish immediately to the Contracting Officer copies of all pertinent papers received by
the Contractor. If the amount of the liability claimed exceeds the amount of coverage of
the Contractors insurance against such claim, the Contractor shall authorize and direct
the Contractors counsel and the Contractors insurer(s), if any, to collaborate and
cooperate with RTD representatives in settling or defending such claim.
N. COLORADO GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY ACT: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Contract to the contrary, no term or condition of this Contract shall be construed
or interpreted as a waiver, express or implied, of any of the immunities, rights, benefits,
protections, or other provisions of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act, C.R.S. 
24-10-101, et seq., as amended.
O. APPROPRIATIONS: All obligations of RTD under this Contract that require funding are
subject to prior annual appropriations of monies expressly made by the Board of
Directors of RTD for the purposes of this Contract. Nothing in this Contract shall be
construed by either the Contractor or RTD as a multiple fiscal year obligation as
described by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution. If funding is not
appropriated by the Board of Directors, RTD may terminate or modify the Contract as
required. Additional funding to the Contract will be accomplished by a Contract
amendment. No legal liability on the part of RTD for any payment may arise for
performance under this Contract beyond the current funding year, until funds are made

38

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

available to the Contracting Officer for performance and until the Contractor receives
notice of availability.

11.3. PRE-CONSTRUCTION RIGHTS AND DUTIES, AND USE OF DOCUMENTS
A. PURPOSE OF THE CONTRACT: The purpose of the Contract is to provide the
requirements, duties and rights of the parties for the pre-construction
work/requirements, construction, and completion of every detail of the Project as
defined in the Scope of Work and the Technical Specifications. Unless otherwise
specified, the Contractor shall furnish all labor, supervision, materials, tools, equipment,
and incidentals necessary to complete the Project in a proper, thorough, skillful, and
workmanlike manner using Due Diligence and in accordance with the Technical
Specifications (including the Construction Drawings), Scope of Work, and all schedule
requirements.
B. BID OR PROPOSAL DOCUMENTS: In the Invitation for Bids or Request for Proposals,
RTD will include some form of a schedule of values or a Work breakdown structure that
the Bidder or Proposer must complete when it bids the Project. The Bid or Proposal
documents are an essential part of the Contract and will be used as an aid to determine:
1. The amount of progress payments.
2. The proper amount of equitable adjustments based on Change Orders and Change
Notices.
3. The proper amount of Claims or equitable adjustments based on Claims.
4. The proper amount of equitable adjustments based on the termination of the Work
in whole or in part, whether or not there are Claims.
The Bid or Proposal documents are admissible evidence at trial, arbitration or any
other proceedings and could become public records at that time. If the Contractor
requests in writing at the time of submitting its Bid or Proposal that its Bid or
Proposal documents remain confidential, until the Bid or Proposal documents
become evidence at such a proceeding, the documents will be held by RTD in
escrow as the Contractors confidential work product. If such documents are
requested under the Colorado Open Records Act, RTD will continue to hold the
documents confidential subject to the Contractor defending that position should the
matter proceed to court. If the Contractor does not defend the action, RTD will
release the documents.
C. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS:
1. The Contractor is expected to have thoroughly read and understood all of the
Technical Specifications, including the Scope of Work. The Contractor will be
expected to strictly adhere to the Technical Specifications, including the Scope of

39

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Work, throughout the course of the Project. The Contractor shall keep on the Work
site a full-size copy of the Construction Drawings and Technical Specifications and
shall at all times give any subcontractor, the Contracting Officer or RTD PM access to
the Technical Specifications.
2. Anything mentioned in the Technical Specifications and not shown on the
Construction Drawings, or shown on the Construction Drawings and not mentioned
in the Technical Specifications, shall be of like effect as if shown or mentioned in
both. In case of discrepancy either in the figures, in the Construction Drawings, or in
the Technical Specifications, written specifically as specifications (often in the form
of standardized divisions), that comes to the attention of the Contractor, the matter
shall be submitted within five Days to the Contracting Officer or the RTD PM, who
shall, in writing, make a determination resolving the discrepancy. At any time before
Work has actually begun on the portion of the Work where the discrepancy exists,
the Contracting Officer or PM can issue a written determination resolving the
discrepancy.
3. Any adjustment by the Contractor without such a determination as to the priority of
the drawings versus written specifications shall be at its own risk and expense.
4. The Contracting Officer or RTD PM shall furnish from time to time such detail
drawings, written specifications and other information as he or she may consider
necessary, which then become part of the Technical Specifications, possibly allowing
the Contractor to seek a Change Order.
5. All Technical Specifications are and shall remain RTD property. They are not to be
used on any other project, and, with the exception of one set of Contract Documents
for each party to the Contract, they are to be returned to RTD at the completion of
the Work.
D. REVIEW OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
1. The Contractor shall at once report to the Contracting Officer any error,
inconsistency, or omission it may discover in the Contract Documents, including in
the Technical Specifications. Failure to report such errors, inconsistencies or
omissions immediately when the Contractor first discovers them, or should have
discovered them if the Contractor had used Due Diligence, will void any Claim by the
Contractor for an equitable adjustment based on the errors, inconsistencies or
omissions.
2. The Contractor is required to know the general and local codes, statutes, ordinances,
rules, standards, guidelines and regulations of RTD, the railroads, governmental
entities, and all other authorities or entities that control or affect the Work. Should
the Contract Documents, including the Technical Specifications, have specifications,

40

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

drawings, figures, footnotes, etc. that violate any of the general or local codes,
statutes, rules, etc., such Contract Documents are considered to contain errors,
inconsistencies or omissions requiring the Contractor, under this Section, to report
them to RTD as soon as discovered, or as soon as they should have been discovered
had the Contractor used Due Diligence. Failure to report items in the Contract
Documents that violate general or local codes, rules, etc. voids any Claim the
Contractor may have based on the errors, and it subjects the Contractor to the
liability aforementioned in this Section.
3. Any inconsistencies or errors in the Technical Specifications, including drawings,
should be brought to the attention of RTD prior to the date when the Shop Drawings
are due. Any Technical Specification that violates any code, rule, statute, etc. should
also be brought to the attention of RTD prior to the date when the Shop Drawings
are due. Additionally, if the failure to report such errors, inconsistencies or omissions
results in damages to RTD, the Contractor will be responsible to compensate RTD for
those damages to the extent that the damages could have been avoided had the
Contractor reported the errors, inconsistencies or omissions when it first discovered
them or should have discovered them had the Contractor used Due Diligence. This
includes errors, inconsistencies or omissions that the Contractor should have
discovered in the Contract Documents had it used Due Diligence when bidding the
Work.
E. INFORMATION FURNISHED BY RTD:
1. In the course of the planning of the Project and primarily for its own internal
purposes, RTD may obtain data regarding engineering work, geological work,
studies, rock or survey reports, soil boring reports, and any other matter whatsoever
of an informational nature. RTD does not warrant, guarantee, or in any way or
manner assume responsibility for the accuracy or uniformity of any statements, data
assertions, analyses, evaluations or recommendations contained in any materials
furnished. The Contractor is responsible for any conclusions drawn from such
furnished data. If the Contractor does not wish to assume the risk of drawing
conclusions from the same, it may employ, at no cost to RTD, its own experts to
analyze the data presented or to make such additional explorations, tests, or studies
as it may deem appropriate.
2. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it will not and cannot assume
conditions affecting the Project or the Work based upon documents and information
provided by RTD or representations and statements made by RTD personnel. RTD
assumes no responsibility for any conclusions or interpretations made by the
Contractor based on the information made available by RTD. Nor does RTD assume
responsibility for any understanding reached or representation made concerning
conditions which can affect the Work by any of its officers or agents before the

41

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

execution of this Contract, unless that understanding or representation is expressly
stated in this Contract.
F. SITE INVESTIGATION AND CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE WORK:
1. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it has taken all steps reasonably
necessary to ascertain the nature and location of the Work, and that it investigated
and satisfied itself as to the general and local conditions which can affect the Work
or its cost, including but not limited to: (1) conditions bearing upon transportation,
disposal (including disposal of contaminated and hazardous material, if any),
handling, and storage of materials including space availability; (2) the availability of
labor, water, electric power, roads, site access, lane closures, and traffic control; (3)
uncertainties of weather, river stages, tides, or similar physical conditions at the site;
(4) the conformation and conditions of the site including ground material, soils, rock
material, water, drainage, plants, bushes, trees, buildings, building materials, waste,
trash and any other materials (contaminated, hazardous or otherwise); (5) the
character of equipment and facilities needed preliminary to and during Work
performance; (6) all codes, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of RTD,
railroads, governmental entities, and all other authorities or entities that control or
affect the Work; and (7) the historical use of the site (such as its use as a landfill or
a building which could have had asbestos in it).
2. The Contractor also acknowledges that it has visited the Work site and has satisfied
itself as to the character, quality, and quantity of surface and subsurface materials
or obstacles to be encountered insofar as this information is reasonably
ascertainable from an inspection of the site, including all exploratory work done by
RTD, as well as from the Construction Drawings and Technical Specifications made a
part of this Contract. Any failure of the Contractor to take the actions described and
acknowledged in this Section will not relieve the Contractor from responsibility for
estimating properly the difficulty and cost of successfully performing the Work or for
proceeding to successfully perform the Work without additional expense to RTD.
G. DIFFERING SITE CONDITIONS:
1. The Section entitled Site Investigation And Conditions Affecting The Work requires
the Contractor to take all steps reasonably necessary to ascertain the nature and
condition of the Work site which can affect the Work or costs. Within five business
days of discovery of the conditions described below, and before such conditions are
disturbed, the Contractor shall give notice to the Contracting Officer or the RTD PM
in writing of:
a. subsurface or latent physical conditions at the site differing materially from those
indicated in this Contract or that the Contractor could not have ascertained under

42

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

a thorough investigation of the site as required by the Section entitled Site
Investigation And Conditions Affecting The Work, or
b. physical conditions at the site of an unusual nature, differing materially from
those ordinarily encountered and generally recognized by prudent and
experienced contractors as inherent in Work of the character provided for in this
Contract.
The Contractor shall not disturb the differing site condition for at least seven
business days after notice of the condition has been given to the Contracting
Officer or the RTD PM unless permission is granted by the Contracting Officer or
the RTD PM.
The notice given pursuant to this Section does not automatically become a
Written Notice of Claim or an NCOP. If the Contractor believes it has a Claim
based on the differing site conditions, it must follow the procedures outlined in
the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
2. The RTD PM shall investigate the site conditions promptly after receiving the notice
described in this Article. If the conditions materially differ so as to cause an increase
or decrease in the Contractors cost of, or the time required for, performing any part
of the Work, whether or not the Technical Specifications are changed as a result of
the conditions, an equitable adjustment shall be made under this Article and the
Contract modified in writing accordingly. If the parties cannot agree that a differing
site condition exists or cannot agree upon an equitable adjustment to the Contract
and/or a change to the Term of Performance (Contract Schedule), the Contractor is
still required to complete the Work in accordance with the Technical Specifications.
The parties must resort to the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute
Resolution for resolution. However, the parties specifically acknowledge and agree
that no Claim or request by the Contractor for an equitable adjustment to the
Contract under this Article shall be allowed unless the Contractor has given the
required written notice and has left the differing site condition undisturbed as
required by this Article.
3. No equitable adjustment to the Contract for differing site conditions shall be allowed
after final payment under this Contract except as described in this Article.
4. The Contractor must also report and give notice of all differing site conditions
benefiting RTD. Such conditions may lead to an equitable adjustment that decreases
the Contract Cost or shortens the term of the Contract. Failure to report and give
notice of differing site conditions that benefit RTD will result in a Claim by RTD when
it becomes aware of the condition (or a lawsuit if the Contract is finalized) and the
automatic determination that the Contractor is not a responsible contractor for
future RTD work.

43

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

H. EQUIPMENT, MATERIAL, AND APPROVAL OF ALTERNATIVES:
1. MATERIAL: All equipment, material, and items incorporated into the Work shall be
new and of the most suitable grade for the purpose intended, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Contract. References in the specifications to equipment,
material, items, or patented processes by trade name, make, or catalog number
shall be regarded as establishing a standard of quality and shall not be construed as
limiting competition. The Contractor may use any equipment, material, article, or
process that, in the sole judgment and approval of the Contracting Officer, is equal
to that named in the specifications, unless otherwise specifically provided in this
Contract.
2. APPROVAL OF ALTERNATIVES: Unless otherwise specifically provided in the
Technical Specifications, the following procedures shall be in effect for approval of
alternatives after Contract award. For convenience in designation on the
Construction Drawings or in the Technical Specifications, certain articles or materials
to be incorporated in the Work may be designated under trade names or the names
of manufacturers and their catalog information; these references shall be regarded
as establishing a standard of quality and shall not be construed as limiting
competition. Except in those instances where the product is specifically designated
as unique or without an approved equal in the sole opinion of RTD or designated to
match others in use in a particular improvement, either completed or in the course
of completion, the use of an alternative article or material which the Contractor
represents to be of at least equal quality and of the required characteristics for the
purpose intended will be permitted, subject to all of the following requirements:
a. The burden of proof as to the quality and suitability of alternatives shall be upon
the Contractor, and it shall furnish all information required by RTD at no
additional cost to RTD. The Contracting Officer shall be the sole judge as to the
quality and suitability of alternative materials and that decision shall be final.
b. No tests or action relating to the approval of substitute materials will be made
until the request for substitution is made in writing by the Contractor,
accompanied by complete data as to the equality of materials proposed. The
data submitted must be full and complete to the satisfaction of RTD; incomplete
submittals will not be acted upon by RTD but will be returned to the Contractor.
Submittal procedures for approval of alternatives shall follow the procedures set
forth in the Section entitled Shop Drawings herein. Such request shall be made
at least 20 Days prior to the commencement of Work using such equipment,
material, or articles to permit approval without delaying the Work, unless
otherwise listed in the Technical Specifications.

44

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

c. Whenever classification, rating, or other certification by a body such as UL,
NEMA, AREMA, or AREA, etc., is part of the Technical Specification for any
material, proposals for use of alternative materials shall be accompanied by
reports from the listed or equivalent independent testing laboratory indicating
compliance with the Technical Specification.
d. The cost of all testing required to prove equality of the material proposed shall
be borne by the Contractor.
e. Approval of an alternative material shall be only for the characteristics or use
named in such approval and shall not be used to change or modify any Contract
requirement or to establish approval for material to be used on any other phase
of the Work.
3. The Contracting Officer will either approve or reject the request for alternatives
within 21 Days of receipt of the request, unless the Contracting Officer or the RTD
PM informs the Contractor in writing of the need for an additional seven Days to
review the request.
a. The application and review process, including any extended time required by the
Contracting Officer to review the submittal, does not constitute an excuse for the
Contractors failure to complete the Work within the Term of Performance.
Failure to complete the Work when required subjects the Contractor to the
damages suffered by RTD due to the failure or to the liquidated damages, if any,
listed in the Contract.
b. The application and review process, including any extended time required by the
Contracting Officer to review the submittal, does not and cannot form the basis
for any Claim on the part of the Contractor including any Claim for equitable
adjustments for damages (due to delays, increased costs, etc.) or for an
extension of time to perform the Contract.
c. RTD is the sole judge for the approval or rejection of alternatives. The rejection
of a request for alternatives does not and cannot form the basis for any Claim on
the part of the Contractor including any Claim for damages (for delays, increased
costs, etc.) or any Claim for an extension of time to perform the Contract.
I. PRE-CONSTRUCTION MEETING: After receipt of all required documentation and
prior to Notice to Proceed, the Contractor and Contracting Officer shall meet to discuss
the Contract implementation, administration, and working relationships. The Contracting
Officer shall prepare a record of all discussions held at this meeting and distribute it to
all attendees.
J. NOTICE TO PROCEED: RTD will furnish the Contractor written direction to commence
performance of Work, entitled Notice to Proceed, within 10 Days after receipt by RTD

45

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

of all required performance and payment bonds, insurance certificates, permits, and
such other documentation which Contractor is required to submit for RTD approval prior
to commencement of Work under this Contract. RTD shall not be responsible for any
costs of any type whatsoever incurred by Contractor prior to the issuance of the Notice
to Proceed. The date of receipt of the Notice to Proceed shall be the official date from
which all scheduled activities and requirements, including the Term of Performance
(Contract Schedule), are computed.
K. SHOP DRAWINGS:
1. SHOP DRAWINGS AND SAMPLES: The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting
Officer, for approval by RTD, all Shop Drawings called for or implied by the Technical
Specifications or at the request of the Contracting Officer.
Unless modified by the Technical Specifications, the following requirements apply to
all Shop Drawings and submittals:
a. The Contractor shall submit three copies of all manufacturers' catalogs and, for
all other Shop Drawings, shall submit one reproducible and two sets of prints to
the Contracting Officer for review. The Contractor shall submit the number of
samples required in the Technical Specifications to the Contracting Officer for
review. Samples are physical examples furnished by the Contractor to illustrate
materials, equipment, or workmanship, and to establish standards by which the
Work will be judged. Prints shall be blue-line or black-line on a white
background. Each drawing prepared by the Contractor and submitted for
approval shall have, in the lower, right-hand corner just above the title, a white
space three inches by four inches in which the action taken can be indicated.
Each Shop Drawing and sample shall be identified with the following information:

Contract Name and Number
Contractor
Subcontractor/Manufacturer/Supplier
b. Before submitting Shop Drawings and samples, the Contractor shall review all
Shop Drawings and samples for completeness and accuracy. Shop Drawings and
samples shall be submitted in a timely and orderly sequence so as to cause no
delay to the Work. At the time of submission, the Contractor shall direct in
writing specific attention to any and all deviations in the Shop Drawings or
samples from the requirements of the Contract Documents.
c. By submitting Shop Drawings and samples, the Contractor represents that it has
determined and verified all field measurements, field construction criteria,
materials, catalog numbers, and similar data, and that it has checked and
coordinated each Shop Drawing and sample with all its subcontractors involved

46

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

in the Work and with the requirements of the Work and of the Contract
Documents.
d. Approval of Shop Drawings or samples shall not relieve the Contractor of
responsibility for any deviation from the requirements of the Contract Documents
unless the Contractor has informed the Contracting Officer, in writing, of such
deviation at the time of submission and written approval has been given to the
specific deviation, nor shall approval relieve the Contractor from responsibility for
errors or omissions in the Shop Drawings or samples.
e. Approval of the Contractors Shop Drawings will not relieve the Contractor of any
responsibility, including responsibility for accuracy of dimensions and details and
for mutual agreement and conformity of its drawings with the Construction
Drawings and Technical Specifications.
When so directed, samples shall be submitted for approval at the Contractors
expense, with all shipping charges prepaid. Machinery, equipment, material, and
articles installed or used without required approval shall be at the risk of
subsequent rejection.
f.

Shop Drawings and samples must be approved before any Work involving such
drawings or samples commences. The Contractor must submit Shop Drawings
and samples to the Contracting Officer a minimum of 21 Days before any Work
involving such drawings or samples is scheduled to commence, unless otherwise
noted in the Technical Specifications. Approval of a separate item shall not
indicate approval of an assembly in which the item functions.

g. Within 21 Days after receipt of the Shop Drawings and samples from the
Contractor, RTD will review them and return one reproducible set of the Shop
Drawings and samples to the Contractor, approved or disapproved, and marked
with corrections. All changes made by the Contracting Officer in Shop Drawings
or samples shall be resubmitted for review in the same manner as an original
submittal. On resubmitted Shop Drawings or samples, the Contractor shall direct
specific attention, in writing, to revisions other than the corrections requested by
RTD on previous submissions. No extension of time will be granted, nor will any
consideration be given to Claims arising out of the Contractors failure to submit
any Shop Drawings, product data, samples, or related submittals which do not
allow adequate lead time for RTDs review and do not allow ample time for
revision, resubmission, and subsequent review by RTD as required.
h. The review process does not affect the Contract Schedule. The review process,
even when numerous rejections and resubmissions of Shop Drawings and
samples are required, does not and cannot constitute an excuse for the
Contractors failure to complete the Work within the Term of Performance

47

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

(Contract Schedule) established in the Contract. Failure to complete the Work
when required by the Contract subjects the Contractor to the damages suffered
by RTD or to the liquidated damages, if any, listed in the Contract.
i.

The review process, even when numerous rejections and resubmissions of Shop
Drawings and samples are required, does not and cannot form the basis for any
Claim on the part of the Contractor including any Claim for damages (for delays,
increased costs, etc.) or any Claim for an extension of time to perform the
Contract.

j.

RTD is the sole judge for the approval or rejection of Shop Drawings and
samples. The rejection of Shop Drawings and samples does not and cannot form
the basis for any Claim on the part of the Contractor including any Claim for
damages (for delays, increased costs, etc.) or any Claim for an extension of time
to perform the Contract.

L. PERMITS AND LICENSES:
1. To the extent permit and licensing requirements are applicable, which the Contractor
shall include on the Baseline Schedule, the Contractor shall procure all required
permits and licenses (including permits for traffic lane closures) whether or not they
are listed in the Technical Specifications or Construction Drawings, pay all charges
and fees, and give all notices necessary and incident to the due and lawful
prosecution of the Work. The Contractor must apply for the required permits and
licenses within five Days of the Notice to Proceed, or as soon as practically possible,
and must notify RTD of any problems in obtaining the permits or licenses within
three business days of discovery of any problem or difficulty. Failure to obtain
permits and licenses, shall it cause a delay, shall not be deemed an excusable delay.
It is the sole responsibility of the Contractor to determine what permits and licenses
are needed.
2. Any permits and licenses listed in the Contract Documents, including the Technical
Specifications and Construction Drawings, are informational only and do not limit the
permits and licenses needed to be determined and obtained by the Contractor.
3. Any assistance, or offer of assistance, on the part of RTD in obtaining the permits or
licenses is purely gratuitous and does not obligate RTD in any manner and cannot be
the factual basis for any Claim or Contract Amendment.
4. Any delay caused by the entity or authority that issues permits or licenses cannot be
the basis for any Claim against RTD, and the Contractor must still abide by the terms
of the Contract.
M. DESIGNATION OF SUBCONTRACTORS: The Contractor shall, prior to start of Work,
have set forth on forms provided with the Bid or Proposal documents or other

48

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

documents approved by RTD, the name, address, phone number and contact person of
each subcontractor, every tier sub-subcontractor, and supplier (including suppliers of
rental equipment) who will perform Work or labor or render service, supplies, equipment
or materials to the Contractor in performance of the Contract, and the portion of the
Work which will be done by each such subcontractor, sub-subcontractor and supplier.
The Contractor shall not, without the written consent of RTD, substitute any
subcontractor, sub-subcontractor or supplier in place of the original designee or permit
any subcontract or contract for supplies, equipment and materials to be assigned or
transferred or allow it to be performed by anyone other than the original designee.

11.4. CONTROL, PROSECUTION, AND PROGRESS OF WORK
A. ADMINISTRATION OF THE CONTRACT:
1. AUTHORITY: The Contracting Officer, under his/her authority from RTDs Board of
Directors, has the responsibility to administer contracts so that their completion may
be accomplished in accordance with their requirements.
Generally, the Contracting Officers duly authorized representative at the
construction site is the RTD Project Manager or PM. The PM, or his/her authorized
representative, notice of which shall be given to the Contractor in writing, is the only
person who has the authority to give written or oral direction to the Contractor at
the Work site regarding any provisions or interpretations of this Contract. Should, in
the opinion of the PM, the performance of the Contractor or the quality of its Work,
or materials furnished, not meet the standards specified, the PM may take such
measures as he/she deems necessary to ensure compliance with the Contract
requirements.
RTD shall not be liable for any costs, expenses, damages, or Claims of any nature,
which result from the Contractor proceeding, in any manner, under the direction of
anyone other than the Contracting Officer, RTD Representative or the PM. The
Contractor shall be required to obtain written verification from the Contracting
Officer, RTD Representative or the PM for any direction the Contractor receives
which alters, amends, or modifies the scope, nature, or price of the Work required or
the rights, remedies or responsibilities of the parties.
2. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION: The Contracting Officer, or his/her duly authorized
representative, usually the Project Manager (PM), shall have the right and duty to
administer the Contract Documents and to inspect the performance of this Contract
by the Contractor; he/she shall issue all instructions to the Contractor. The decisions
of the PM relating to the Contract Documents shall be final, subject to Dispute
Resolution under the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution
herein.
The PM shall, at all times, have access to the Work whenever it is in preparation or

49

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

progress. The Contractor shall provide safe facilities for such access so the PM may
perform his/her function under the Contract Documents.
3. PROJECT MANAGER (PM) RESPONSIBILITIES: The responsibilities of the Project
Manager (PM) include, but are not limited to, the following:
a. The PM will be the interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents.
The PM will, within reasonable time, render such interpretations as may be
necessary for the proper execution of progress of the Work. The PMs decisions
regarding the Work shall be final, subject to Dispute Resolution under the Article
entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
b. The PM shall have the authority to order the Contractor to stop Work if, in the
judgment of the PM, safety hazards exist or Work is not being performed in
accordance with the Contract Documents.
c. The PM shall obtain and certify complete records of all taxes paid for the Work.
d. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to relieve the Contractor from any
responsibilities or obligations set forth elsewhere in the Contract.
B. MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP:
1. The Contractor must obtain the PMs approval of all materials, items, processes,
articles, machinery, and mechanical and other equipment to be incorporated into the
Work. When requesting approval, the Contractor shall furnish to the PM the name of
the supplier, manufacturer, the model number, and other information concerning the
performance, capacity, nature, and rating of the materials, items, processes, articles,
machinery, and mechanical and other equipment. When directed to do so, the
Contractor shall submit samples for approval at the Contractors expense with all
shipping charges prepaid. Machinery, equipment, material, and items installed or
used without the required approval run the risk of subsequent rejection by RTD.
2. All Work under this Contract shall be performed in a safe, careful, skillful and
workmanlike manner. The PM may require that the Contractor remove from the
Work any employee, including an employee of any tier of supplier or subcontractor,
whom the PM deems incompetent, incapable, unskillful, unsafe, careless, or
otherwise objectionable. This applies to warranty Work as well as to Work prior to
Final Acceptance.
C. SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
1. The Contractor is responsible for complying fully with all applicable laws and
Contract requirements as they relate to the safety of persons, environment, public,
or property. The Contractor shall ensure that the Contractors employees and
subcontractors have sufficient training to perform the Work.

50

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

2. All furnished materials and equipment used by the Contractor must be safe, new and
not used or reconditioned, not of such age or so deteriorated as to impair their
usefulness or safety, approved by RTD, and only be used for their intended purpose.
3. The Contractor shall develop and administer a site-specific safety plan that identifies
specific safety requirements, potential exposures and hazards associated with the
Work, and the means and methods employed to address those exposures and
hazards. The Contractor shall submit its site-specific safety plan to RTDs Engineer
for review and comment prior to the start of any Work. The plan must meet or
exceed the requirements of this Contract and must comply with all applicable laws.
RTD shall have the right, but not the obligation, to review and comment on the
Contractors plan and any amendments to it. The Contractor shall carefully consider
all RTD comments on the plan, but the Contractor bears final responsibility for the
scope, detail, and administration of the plan. The Contractor shall indemnify, defend,
and hold harmless RTD from any and all claims, damages, liability and court awards,
including costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys fees, related to RTDs comments
on the plan.
4. The Contractor shall ensure that each subcontractor develops and administers its
own site-specific safety plan, which it shall submit to the Contractor for review and
comment.
5. The Contractor shall at all times provide a safe, clean, and secure Work area.
Pedestrian and vehicle access around the site shall be maintained at all times by the
Contractor. The Contractor shall secure the Work site from the date of the Notice to
Proceed until final completion and acceptance of the Work, including but not limited
to protecting all Work and materials from vandalism and theft and preventing
unauthorized access to RTDs transit system. The Contractor is responsible for any
theft of or damage to materials and equipment, whether the materials and
equipment are installed on the Project or stored on-site or off-site.
6. The Contractor shall at all times keep the construction site, including storage areas,
free from accumulations of waste material or rubbish. Removal of all waste material
and rubbish must be completed at least once a week unless the RTD PM agrees to a
longer period of time. Prior to completion of the Work, the Contractor shall remove
any rubbish from the premises including all tools, scaffolding, equipment, and
materials not the property of RTD. Upon completion of the construction, the
Contractor shall leave the Work and premises in a clean, neat, and workmanlike
condition satisfactory to the Engineer. Additional requirements are detailed in the
Technical Specifications.

51

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

7. RTD may require a safety and security certification, preliminary hazard analysis,
and/or threat and vulnerability assessment for any construction projects on RTDs
property.
8. In the event RTD determines that the applicable safety and security requirements
are not being met, RTD reserves the right to stop any Work, without incurring
liability for delays or additional costs, until such time that RTD determines that
proper changes or mitigations have been made to ensure safety and security at the
Work site.
9. The failure of the Contractor to satisfy the requirements of this Article shall be
deemed a material breach of the Contract.
10. In the event these requirements conflict with or exceed federal, state, or local safety
and environmental standards, the Contractor shall implement and comply with the
more stringent safety procedures. In the event of a dispute over the applicability of a
particular safety procedure, the RTD Capital, Facilities, and Safety staff will identify
the safety procedures required.
D. TESTS AND INSPECTIONS: This Article, as modified by the Technical Specifications,
applies to all Work performed under this Contract.
1. If the Contract Documents (including but not limited to Technical Specifications,
Construction Drawings, figures, footnotes, etc.), codes, product specifications, laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, warranties, or orders of any private or public entity or
authority that provides, affects or controls any portion of the Work require any Work
to be inspected, tested, or approved, the Contractor shall give the PM timely notice
of readiness at least two working days before the inspections or testing and shall
allow the PM to observe the inspections or testing. The Contractor shall furnish to
the PM certificates of inspection, testing, or approval. If such Work required to be
inspected, tested, or approved must also be maintained in the same condition as
when inspected, tested or approved, the Contractor shall properly maintain the same
condition until such time as the PM approves a change in the condition or approves
additional Work. If Work that is to be maintained in an approved condition is allowed
by the Contractor to change without the permission of the PM, the Contractor shall
recondition the Work and have it again inspected, tested or approved at the
Contractors expense. If such Work required to be inspected, tested, approved
and/or maintained is covered up without prior written approval of the PM, it must, if
directed by the PM, be uncovered at the Contractors expense. Cost of all such
inspections, tests, approval and maintenance described in this Section shall be borne
by the Contractor.
2. If, after the commencement of the Work, the PM determines that any Work requires
special inspection, testing, or approval which is not included in This Article, the PM

52

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

may instruct the Contractor to order such special inspection, testing, or approval.
Upon receipt of such instruction, the Contractor shall give the PM notice at least two
working days before the date arranged for such purpose so that the PM may observe
the inspection, testing, or approval. If any Work has been covered which the PM had
not requested to observe prior to being covered, or if the PM considers it necessary
or advisable that covered Work be inspected or tested by others, the Contractor at
the PM's request will uncover, expose, or otherwise make available for observation,
inspection, and testing that portion of the Work in question in accordance with the
Section entitled Quality Control And Inspection Of Construction herein. The type
and extent of inspections or tests performed shall be at the sole discretion of the
PM. However, since the Contractor may ultimately bear the delays and costs of the
inspections or tests, the Contractor can object, in writing, to the type and/or extent
of the inspections or tests. The written objection must be submitted to the PM within
seven Days of the order to perform the inspections or tests. The written objection
should explain specifically to what the Contractor is objecting and why. The written
objection should also contain alternative suggestions on how to assure that the Work
conforms to the Contract Documents. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that
failure to provide a written objection waives the Contractors right to later contest
the type and/or extent of the inspections or tests in any Claim or defense regarding
the costs and schedule impacts caused by or associated with the inspections and
testing.
E. QUALITY CONTROL AND INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION: In the event of a
conflict between this Section and the Technical Specifications, the Technical
Specifications shall control.
1. The Contractor shall assure the quality of its Work by adhering to the following:
a. During the pre-construction meeting or shortly thereafter, the Contractor shall
submit a Quality Control Plan to the Contracting Officer. The PM must approve
the Quality Control Plan before Work begins. As part of the Quality Control Plan,
the Contractor shall maintain an adequate inspection system and perform such
inspections and tests as will ensure that the Work conforms to Contract
requirements. The Quality Control Plan must include proposed inspection
checklists and planned tests to assure compliance with all Contract Documents.
The Quality Control Plan should also include a schedule indicating when the
Contractor will perform inspections and tests. Approval of the Quality Control
Plan is within the PMs sole discretion. The PM will approve or reject the Plan
within 21 Days of his or her receipt of the Plan. If the PM rejects the Plan, the
Contractor must re-submit Quality Control Plans until accepted by the PM. The
review process, even when numerous rejections and resubmissions of Quality
Control Plans are required, does not and cannot form the basis for any Claim on

53

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

the part of the Contractor including any Claim for damages (for delays, increased
costs, etc.) or any Claim for an extension of time to perform the Contract.
b. The Contractor shall designate one or more of its employees as the Quality
Control Inspector(s) who will remain in contact with the PM regarding the Quality
Control Plan and supplement all Quality Control Documents.
c. The Contractors Quality Control Inspector(s) shall maintain complete Quality
Control Documents which will include the Quality Control Inspectors daily logs
and the inspection and test records. The documents shall be readily available to
RTD. At the request of the PM, the Quality Control Documents will be provided
immediately, and in no event longer than two hours after the request unless
allowed by the PM.
d. RTD is allowed to observe all inspections and tests performed by the Contractor
as part of the Quality Control Plan. The Contractors schedule indicating when
inspections and tests will be done must be kept up to date and sent in a timely
manner to the PM so that RTD has notification and can attend inspections and
tests as it desires. Failure to comply subjects the Contractor to uncovering Work
so that RTD can observe the inspections and tests at the Contractors expense.
e. All Work is subject to RTD inspection and test at all places and at all reasonable
times before acceptance to ensure strict compliance with all of the Contract
Documents. The Contractor shall coordinate the schedule with the PM to assure
that RTD can inspect and test materials, equipment, work product, etc., as RTD
desires and before additional Work proceeds. RTD may require photographs to
be taken of the Work at intervals during the course of construction to show the
status and progress of the construction.
f.

Contractor shall notify the PM of failed inspections or tests or other deficiencies
within five Days of discovery. The Contractor shall promptly submit a plan to
correct the deficiencies, if appropriate. If the Contractor does not notify RTD of
failed inspections, failed tests or other deficiencies, the Contractor will be
responsible to compensate RTD for all damages associated with the deficiencies
including incidental and consequential damages. If the Contractor is not
responsible for the deficiencies, failure to notify RTD of the failed inspections,
failed tests or deficiencies will result in the Contractor being responsible for
damages to RTD to the extent that the damages could have been avoided had
the Contractor reported the deficiencies when it first discovered them or when it
should have discovered them had the Contractor used Due Diligence.

2. RTD inspections and tests are for the sole benefit of RTD and do not:

54

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

a. Relieve the Contractor of responsibility for providing adequate quality control
measures and following the Quality Control Plan;
b. Relieve the Contractor of responsibility for damage to or loss of the material
before acceptance;
c. Constitute or imply acceptance; or
d. Affect the continuing rights of RTD after acceptance of the completed Work
under this Article.
3. The presence or absence of an RTD inspector does not relieve the Contractor from
any Contract requirement, nor is an RTD inspector authorized to change any term or
condition of the Technical Specifications without the Contracting Officers written
authorization.
4. The Contractor shall promptly furnish, without additional charge, all facilities, labor,
and material reasonably needed for performing such safe and convenient inspections
and tests as may be required by the PM. RTD may charge to the Contractor any
additional cost of inspection or test when Work is not ready at the time and/or
location specified by the Contractor for inspection or test, or when prior rejection
makes re-inspection or retest necessary. RTD shall perform all inspections and tests
in a manner that will not unnecessarily delay the Work. Special, full-size, and
performance tests shall be performed as described in the Contract Documents.
5. The Contractor shall, without charge, replace or correct Work found by RTD not to
conform to Contract requirements, unless, in the public interest, RTD consents to
accept the Work with an appropriate adjustment in Contract Cost. The Contractor
shall, as soon as possible or as directed by the PM, segregate and remove rejected
materials from the premises.
6. If the Contractor does not promptly replace or correct rejected Work, RTD may (1)
by contract or otherwise, replace or correct the Work and charge the cost to the
Contractor or (2) terminate the Contract for default.
7. If, before acceptance of the entire Work, RTD decides to examine and/or test
already completed Work by uncovering it, removing it or tearing it out, the
Contractor, on request, shall promptly furnish all necessary facilities, labor, and
material. If the Work is found to be defective or nonconforming in any material
respect due to the fault of the Contractor or its subcontractors, the Contractor shall
be responsible for and bear all expenses for the uncovering, removal, tearing out,
examination, testing and satisfactory reconstruction. However, if the Work is found
to meet Contract requirements, the PM shall make an equitable adjustment for the
additional services involved in the uncovering, removal, tearing out, examination,

55

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

testing and reconstruction, including, if completion of the Work was delayed, an
extension of time.
8. Unless otherwise specified in the Contract, RTD shall accept, as promptly as
practicable after completion and inspection, all Work required by the Contract or that
portion of the Work the PM determines can be accepted separately. Acceptance shall
be final and conclusive except for defects, latent defects, negligence, fraud,
mistakes, or RTDs rights under any guarantee or warranty.
F. SUPERINTENDENCE BY THE CONTRACTOR: At all times (every working hour of
every Work day) during performance of this Contract and until the Work is completed
and accepted by RTD, the Contractor shall directly superintend the Work or assign and
have on the Work site a competent superintendent who is acceptable to the Contracting
Officer and has authority to act for the Contractor. The Contractor shall provide its
superintendents name and resume to the Contracting Officer. RTD shall give notice to
the Contractor if a superintendent is not on the site when Work is being performed,
unless permission is granted by RTD for the superintendents absence. Upon the second
notice RTD will charge the Contractor for RTDs actual damages or the amount
established as liquidated damages for each time that Work is being performed without a
superintendent present, unless permission is granted by RTD for the superintendents
absence.
G. PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY: The Contractor is responsible for the
protection of all persons and property and compliance with all federal, state and local
rules and regulations during performance of the Work. The Contractor shall conform to
all requirements of the Technical Specifications.
H. CONTROL OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
1. All materials and equipment shall be delivered, handled, stored, installed, and
protected to prevent damage and ensure preservation of quality and fitness for the
Work in accordance with best current practice in the industry, in accordance with
manufacturers specifications and recommendations, and in accordance with
Contract Documents requirements. Contractor shall store packaged materials and
equipment in their original and sealed containers, marked with the brand and
manufacturers name, until ready for use. Contractor shall deliver materials and
equipment in ample time to facilitate inspection and tests prior to installation. The
term delivery, in reference to any item specified or indicated, means the unloading
and storing with proper protection at the Work site. Damaged materials or
equipment will be rejected.
2. Before ordering materials, equipment, or performing Work, the Contractor shall
verify indicated dimensions. If a discrepancy exists, the Contractor shall notify the
Contracting Officer of the discrepancy immediately in writing. The Contracting Officer

56

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

will then clarify the intended design to the Contractor. The Contractor shall take field
measurements required for the proper fabrication and installation of the Work. Upon
commencement of any item of Work, the Contractor shall be responsible for
dimensions related to such items of Work.
I. CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE WORK AND MATERIALS: Until the
Final Acceptance of the Work, the Contractor shall have the charge and care of the site,
the Work and of the materials to be used, except as limited above, including materials
for which it has received partial payment, and materials which have been furnished by
RTD, and shall bear the risk of injury, loss, or damage to any part thereof by the action
of the elements or from any other cause, whether arising from the execution or from the
non-execution of the Work. The Contractor shall rebuild, repair, or restore all injuries,
losses, or damages to any portion of the site, the Work and materials occasioned by any
cause before the Works completion and acceptance and shall bear the expense thereof,
except for such injuries, losses, or damages as are directly and approximately caused by
acts of God, acts of war, or governmental authorities. Where necessary, the Contractor
shall, at its expense, provide suitable drainage and erect such temporary structures as
are necessary to protect the site, the Work and materials from damage. The suspension
of the Work from any cause whatever shall not relieve the Contractor of its responsibility
for the site, the Work and materials as specified in this Contract. The Contractor shall
properly store materials which have been partially paid for by RTD or which have been
furnished by RTD. Such storage by the Contractor shall be on behalf of RTD, and RTD
shall at all times be entitled to the possession of such materials, and the Contractor shall
promptly return the same to the site of the Work when requested. The Contractor shall
not dispose of any of the materials so stored except on written authorization from the
Contracting Officer.
J. RELIEF FROM MAINTENANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY: Upon the written notice to
the Contractor, RTD may relieve the Contractor of the duty of maintaining and
protecting certain significant portions of the Work, which have been completed in all
respects in accordance with the requirements of the Contract, and thereafter, except
with the Contractors consent, the Contractor will not be required to do further Work
thereon. In addition, such action by RTD will relieve the Contractor of responsibility for
injury or damage to those completed portions of the Work resulting from use by public
traffic or from the action of the elements or from any other cause, but not from injury or
damage resulting from the Contractors own operations nor from its negligence.
K. ASSIGNMENT: The Contractor shall not assign, hypothecate, encumber, use as
security, transfer, convey, sublet, or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of the
property upon which the Work is performed. The Contractor shall not assign,
hypothecate, encumber, use as security, transfer, convey, sublet, or otherwise dispose

57

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

of the Contract or any of its rights, title or interest in or to the Contract or any parts of
the Contract without the prior written consent of RTD.
L. WARRANTIES:
1. In addition to any other warranties in the Contract, including those found in the
Technical Specifications, Construction Drawings, figures and footnotes, the
Contractor warrants, except as provided in this Article below, that Work performed
under this Contract conforms to the Contract requirements and is free of any defect
in equipment, material, or design furnished or workmanship performed by the
Contractor or any subcontractor or supplier at any tier. This warranty shall continue
for a period of one year from the date of Final Acceptance of the Work. If RTD takes
possession and begins using any part of the Work before Final Acceptance, the
warranty on that portion of the Work that RTD is using shall continue for a period of
one year from the date RTD begins its use; the one-year warranty on all other Work
begins on the date of Final Acceptance. To the extent that the Contractors standard
warranty exceeds one year, the Contractors standard warranty shall apply.
2. The Contractor shall remedy at the Contractors expense any failure to conform or
any defect. In addition, the Contractor shall remedy at the Contractors expense any
damage to real or personal property when that damage is the result of:
a. The Contractors failure to conform to Contract requirements; or,
b. Any defect of equipment, material, or workmanship.
3. As regards repaired or replaced Work:
a. The Contractor shall restore any Work damaged in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Article at the Contractors sole expense.
b. The Contractors warranty with respect to Work repaired or replaced will run for
one year from the date of repair or replacement.
c. Landscaping replacement shall be warranted for two years and, if the second
year ends in a growing season, the warranty extends through the remainder of
the growing season, unless otherwise specified.
4. The Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor, in writing, within a reasonable
time after the discovery of any failure, defect, or damage in the Work. If the
Contractor fails to remedy any failure, defect, or damage in the Work within 30 Days
of the notification from RTD, RTD shall have the right to replace, repair, or otherwise
remedy the failure, defect, or damage at the Contractors expense.

58

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

5. With respect to all warranties, express or implied, from subcontractors,
manufacturers, or suppliers for Work performed and materials furnished under this
Contract, the Contractor shall:
a. Obtain all warranties that would be given in normal commercial practice,
b. Assign all rights in the warranties to RTD. Contractor shall require all warranties
to be executed, in writing, for the benefit of RTD, and
c. Enforce all warranties for the benefit of RTD, if directed by the Contracting
Officer.
6. In the event the Contractors warranty under this Article above has expired, RTD
may bring suit at its expense to enforce a subcontractors, manufacturers, or
suppliers warranty.
7. Unless a defect is caused by the negligence of the Contractor or subcontractor or
supplier at any tier, the Contractor shall not be liable for the repair of any defects of
material or design furnished by RTD nor for the repair of any damage that results
from any defect in RTD-furnished material or design.
8. None of the warranties in this Article shall limit RTDs rights with respect to defects,
latent defects, negligence, mistakes, or fraud.
9. Neither the foregoing nor any provision in the Contract Documents, nor any special
guarantee time limit, shall be held to limit the Contractors liability for defects to less
than the legal limit of liability in accordance with Colorado law.
10. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that performance of the Contract includes
the performance of all the warranty provisions in this Article. Contractors failure to
perform under a warranty provision is a breach of the Contract and a default.

11.5. SCHEDULES, PROGRESS REPORTS, AND MEETINGS
A. SCHEDULES, PROGRESS REPORTS, AND MEETINGS:
1. The Contractor shall provide a Baseline Schedule (resource- and cost-loaded),
Monthly Progress Schedules and 4-Week Look-Ahead Schedule in accordance with
the requirements of the Technical Specifications, detailing completed and planned
activities, including permits, submittals, and review periods, and sequencing of the
Work.
2. The Monthly Progress Schedule shows the anticipated sequence of operations. It
must be updated every month to show changes in the planning of the operations
and the actual progress of Work, the earned value of Work accomplished and the
forecast of remaining Work (including Approved Change Orders and Work Orders).
The updates are needed for RTD to anticipate when Work is to be tested, inspected,

59

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

and completed and to coordinate with the Contractor and other contractors if
necessary. It must be provided to aid in making payments and to help resolve
claims.
3. When, in the Contracting Officers opinion, the Monthly Progress Schedule fails to
reflect the Project's actual plan and method of operation or the projected completion
date or is behind the Contract completion date, the Contracting Officer may require
that the Contractor submit for review within 14 Days a Recovery Schedule for
completion of the remaining Work by the Contract completion date.
4. The last Monthly Progress Schedule submitted shall be identified by the Contractor
as the As-Built Schedule. The As-Built Schedule shall reflect the exact manner in
which the Contract was actually executed, including actual start and completion
dates, activities, actual durations, sequences, and logic, and shall be signed and
certified by the Contractors Project manager and the Contractors scheduler as being
a true reflection of the way in which the Work was actually executed as of the time
of final completion.
5. The Contractor shall be responsible for any costs incurred in revising any of the
required submitted schedules.
6. The Contractor will receive an administrative procedures package from the
Contracting Officer which shall be construed to be part of the Contract Documents; if
it contains forms or instructions, including daily report forms, instructions for
correspondence, approvals, etc., the Contractor will be required to use those forms
and instructions. Otherwise, the Contractor will use forms and instructions described
in the Technical Specifications or as directed by the Contracting Officer.
7. During the construction period, progress meetings chaired by the Engineer will be
held with representatives of the Contractor, major subcontractors, and such other
subcontractors or material suppliers whose presence may be deemed necessary or
desirable by the Contracting Officer or Engineer. The Contractors Quality Control
Inspector(s) and Safety Officer(s) should attend each progress meeting. The
Contractor shall bring a current 4-Week Look-Ahead Schedule, as required by the
Technical Specifications, to each progress meeting. The purpose of these meetings
shall include, without limitation, expediting the Work (including all tests and
inspections), coordination of various phases of the Work and scheduling of Work.
Frequency, time, and place of meetings will be determined by the Engineer, who
shall give all persons expected to attend the meeting at least one Days notice of the
date, time, and place of the meeting. Unless a Contract Amendment or Change
Order is issued as a result of these meetings, nothing discussed shall be construed
as a modification, alteration, or amendment of any written Contract provision.
Additional meeting requirements are detailed in the Technical Specifications.

60

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

B. EXPEDITED SCHEDULES:
1. The milestone dates, if any, and the completion date established by RTD in the
Contract are controlling. If the Contractor proposes a schedule that is expedited (i.e.,
milestones and completion date earlier than those established by RTD in the
Contract), the schedule is considered informational only to show RTD that the
Contractor can meet the milestones and the completion date established in the
Contract. This expedited schedule remains informational only even if it is accepted
by RTD and used by both parties to coordinate activities such as tests, inspections,
delivery of material or equipment, coordination with other contractors or entities,
etc. While the expedited schedule remains informational only, if both parties are
using it to coordinate activities, the time period differences between the milestones
and the completion date established by RTD (the Contract Schedule) and the earlier
milestones and completion date in the Contractors expedited schedule are General
Float Time.
2. Since any expedited schedule will be considered informational and will not change
the milestones and the completion date established by RTD in the Contract, it should
be expected that RTD may use the General Float Time.
3. If a Contractors expedited schedule is accepted by RTD as controlling, rather than
just informational, an amendment will be added to the Contract establishing the
Contractors milestone dates and the completion date as the controlling time periods
under the Contract, replacing the original Contract Schedule. The dates proposed by
the Contractor in an expedited schedule will not be controlling unless and until the
amendment is prepared and signed by both parties. The Contractor must then meet
the new Contract Schedule or be assessed the liquidated damages or price
reductions as established in the Contract. Or, if no liquidated damages or price
reductions are listed in the Contract, the Contactor shall be assessed the actual
damages sustained by RTD for the Contractors failure to meet the new Contract
Schedule.
C. GENERAL FLOAT TIME:
1. General Float Time can be used by RTD or the Contractor or both to accommodate
delays caused by whatever reason.
2. Since General Float Time can be used by the Contractor or RTD or both, it is
insufficient for the Contractor to seek damages simply because it was delayed past
milestones or the completion date listed in its expedited schedule. To claim an
equitable adjustment, including damages based upon delays, the Contractor must
have suffered actual damages that can be readily supported with documentary
evidence caused by some specific incident or circumstance. The actual damages
must be for cost items not already calculated in the Bid. Expenses throughout the

61

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

entire Term of Performance as established in the Contract should have been
calculated into the Bid and cannot be recovered unless the delays extend expenses
past the Term of Performance established by RTD in the Contract.
3. Should the Contractor have a Claim for compensation or an extension of time based
upon a delay, the Contractor must follow the procedures outlined in the Article
entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
D. TIMING OF WORK:
1. COMMENCEMENT, EXECUTION, AND COMPLETION OF WORK: The Contractor shall
be required to commence Work within five Days after the date of receipt of the
Notice to Proceed, to execute the Work diligently, and to complete the entire Work,
in compliance with all milestones, Substantial Completion deadline, and Final
Acceptance deadline, including final cleanup, so that the Project is ready for use as
specifically set forth in the Contract.
2. TIME LIMITS: All time limits, time periods, milestones and completion dates stated in
the Contract Documents are of the essence of the Contract and shall be strictly
construed.
E. SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: When all or any designated portion of the Work has, in
the opinion of the Contractor, been substantially completed, the Contractor shall request
the RTD PM to examine all or any designated portion of the Work to determine whether
it has been substantially completed. If the RTD PM determines that Substantial
Completion has been achieved, the Contracting Officer can issue a Notice of Substantial
Completion pertaining to all or any designated portion of the Work. Notice of Substantial
Completion shall not relieve the Contractor from any requirement under the Contract.
With the Notice of Substantial Completion, RTD shall issue a Punch List. A Punch List is
a list of items that need to be completed before RTD will issue Final Acceptance of the
Work. Within 30 Days of the date the Contractor receives Notice of Substantial
Completion, it shall complete any and all Punch List items unless the Contracting Officer
grants a longer period. Should the Contractor not complete the Punch List items in the
30-Day period, RTD shall impose such Contract sanctions as it may determine to be
appropriate, including but not limited to:
1. Charging the Contractor liquidated damages, or actual damages (whichever is most
appropriate in the discretion of the Contracting Officer), for each Day after the term
of the Contract that Final Acceptance is not achieved;
2. Withholding of all payments under the Contract until the Contractor complies;
3. Cancellation, termination, or suspension of the Contract, in whole or in part, with or
without declaring a default or a breach of the Contract;

62

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

4. Informing the surety on the performance bond of the pending or actual breach of
the Contract, termination, suspension, etc.;
5. Having the Work completed by others and charging the expense against the
Contractor; and/or
6. Determination by RTD that the Contractor is not a responsible contractor for the
purposes of future RTD work.
Substantial Completion does not equate with Final Acceptance of the Work, and the
Contract is not complete until Final Acceptance.
F. USE AND POSSESSION PRIOR TO COMPLETION: Prior to Substantial Completion,
RTD shall have the right to take possession of or use any completed or partially
completed part of the Work. Prior to such possession or use, the PM shall furnish the
Contractor an itemized list of Work remaining to be performed or corrected on such
portions of the Work as are to be possessed or used by RTD, provided that failure to list
any item of Work shall not relieve the Contractor of responsibility for compliance with
the terms of the Contract. Such possession or use shall not be deemed Substantial
Completion or Final Acceptance of any Work under the Contract. While RTD has such
possession or use, the Contractor, notwithstanding the provisions of the Section entitled
Permits And Licenses of this Contract, shall be relieved of the responsibility for the loss
or damage to the Work resulting from RTDs possession or use. However, the Contractor
remains responsible for all loss or damage to any portion of the Work in RTDs
possession or use if the loss or damage is not the result of RTDs possession or use. If
such prior possession or use by RTD delays the progress of the Work or causes
additional expense to the Contractor, an equitable adjustment in the Contract Cost or
the time of completion may be made, and the Contract shall be modified in writing
accordingly.
G. FINAL ACCEPTANCE OF THE WORK: The Contractor shall request of the RTD PM, in
writing, a final inspection when the Work has been completed in all respects in
accordance with the Contract, Construction Drawings, and Technical Specifications.
Contractor compliance with the requirements of the Technical Specifications, including
the Safety Certification Program, is a condition precedent to the request for final
inspection. Upon receipt of the Contractors written request, the RTD PM will perform a
final inspection and determine whether the Work has been completed as specified in the
Contract. If the Work has not been completed as specified in the Contract, the
Contracting Officer will inform the Contractor in writing of the remaining Work to be
completed. If the Work has been completed as specified in the Contract, the Contracting
Officer will recommend that RTD formally accept the Work and will give written
notification of the date of Final Acceptance. Immediately upon and after such written
Final Acceptance by RTD, the Contractor will be relieved of the duty of maintaining and
protecting the Work as a whole, and it will not be required to perform any further Work

63

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

thereon except as provided in the Section Entitled Warranties herein. The Contractor
shall also be relieved of its responsibility for injury to persons or property or damage to
the Work which occurs after the Final Acceptance by RTD, except that the Contractor
shall not be relieved of its responsibility for injury to persons or property due to its
negligence, latent defects or hidden defects or arising from the Contractors duties and
obligations under the Section entitled Hold Harmless herein.
H. RECORD DOCUMENTS:
1. Contractor shall maintain the Record Documents in good order. The Record
Documents shall be updated on a daily basis, kept at the Work site (or in the
superintendents possession) and be immediately available upon request to the
Contracting Officer, the Engineer, or their agents at all times during performance of
the Contract. The Contractor shall use the daily log or diary forms provided by RTD
or described in the Technical Specifications. The daily logs or diaries must contain a
description of everyone who was on the Work site, what Work was performed, what
materials and equipment were delivered to the site, testing, inspections, and all
other pertinent information. Detailed requirements for the preparation and
maintenance of Record Documents are contained in the Technical Specifications.
2. At the completion of the Work, Contractor shall deliver all of the Record Documents,
including the As-Built Drawings (the final form to be certified by a Professional
Engineer or Land Surveyor, as required by the Contracting Officer) and the As-Built
Schedule to the Contracting Officer with a transmittal letter containing the date,
Contract title and number, Contractors name and address, the title and number of
each Record Document, and a certification that each document is complete and
accurate. The Contractor shall also submit and certify all daily logs and diaries if
requested by the Contracting Officer. The Final Submittal of Record Documents must
be made prior to final payment.
3. The Contractor shall also submit a certification by a Professional Engineer (PE),
employed or hired by the Contractor, that all Work under the Contract, the
completed construction product, and the materials, inspections, testing, and
construction methods conform to the Technical Specifications, plans, dimensions,
Construction Drawings, and purpose of design. The PE shall be experienced and
competent in the applicable construction management, inspection and materials
testing. The certification is a statement signed and sealed by a PE representing that
the engineering services addressed in the certification have been performed by a PE
or under the PE In Responsible Charge.
4. Contractor shall also comply with all submittal requirements as set forth in the
Technical Specifications and all other Sections of the Contract referencing submittals.
I. SUSPENSION OF WORK:

64

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

1. The Contracting Officer may order the Contractor in writing to suspend, delay, or
interrupt all or any part of the Work for such period of time as he or she may
determine to be appropriate for the convenience of RTD. Upon receipt of the order,
the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps
to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the Work covered by the order
during the period of Work stoppage.
2. If the performance of all or any part of the Work is, for an unreasonable period of
time, suspended, delayed, or interrupted (1) by an act of RTD in the administration
of this Contract, or (2) by RTDs failure to act within the time specified in this
Contract (or within a reasonable time if not specified), an adjustment to the
Statement of Contract Cost shall be made for any increase in the cost of
performance of this Contract (excluding profit) necessarily caused by the
unreasonable suspension, delay, or interruption, and the Contract shall be modified
in writing accordingly. An unreasonable period of suspension, delay or interruption is
one that makes completion of the Work by the completion date established in the
Contract impossible without the acceleration of labor forces beyond what the
Contractor had anticipated (as reflected in the Baseline Schedule). However, no
adjustment shall be made under this Section for any suspension, delay, or
interruption to the extent (1) that performance would have been so suspended,
delayed, or interrupted by any other cause, including the fault or negligence of the
Contractor, an act of a controlling entity or authority, weather, an act of God,
vandalism or an act of war or (2) for which an equitable adjustment is provided for
or excluded under any other provision of this Contract.
3. All Claims under this Section must comply with the requirements and limitations
found in the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
However, for all Claims under this Section other than those described in this Article,
no Written Notice of Claim is required and the Certified Claim is due 60 Days after
the written order of suspension, delay, or interruption, unless a longer time is
permitted by the Contracting Officer.
4. The Contractors responsibility under the Section entitled Contractors Responsibility
For The Work And Materials for the Work and materials remains in effect for the
entire term of the suspension, delay or interruption unless a Contract Amendment
alters the Contractors responsibilities. If the Contractor believes it has compensable
expenses associated with meeting its responsibilities under the Section entitled
Contractors Responsibility For The Work And Materials during the term of
suspension, delay or interruption, it can pursue a Claim that complies with all the
requirements and limitations found in the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And
Dispute Resolution herein, including Written Notice of Claim within seven Days of
the written order of suspension, delay or interruption, explaining what costs are

65

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

associated with the protection and maintenance of the site, the completed Work and
the materials.
J. TERMINATION:
1. TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT:
a. If the Contractor refuses or fails to properly prosecute the Work or any separable
part, with the diligence and good workmanship that will ensure its completion
and acceptance within the time specified in this Contract including any extension,
or fails to complete the Work within this time, RTD may, by written notice to the
Contractor, terminate the right to proceed with the Work (or the separable part
of the Work) that has been delayed or not performed in a good workmanship-like
manner. In this event, RTD may take over the Work and complete it by contract
or otherwise, and may take possession of and use any materials, appliances, and
plant on the Work site necessary for completing the Work. The Contractor and its
sureties shall be liable for any damage to RTD resulting from the Contractors
refusal or failure to complete the Work within the specified time or not
performed in a good workmanship-like manner, whether or not the Contractors
right to proceed with the Work is terminated. This liability includes any increased
costs incurred by RTD in completing the Work.
b. The Contractors right to proceed shall not be terminated nor the Contractor
charged with damages under this Article, if:
i.

The delay in completing the Work arises from unforeseeable causes beyond
the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. Examples
of such causes include (i) acts of God or acts of war, (ii) acts of another
contractor in the performance of a contract with RTD, (iii) fires, (iv) floods,
(v) epidemics, (vi) quarantine restrictions, (vii) strikes, (viii) freight
embargoes, (ix) unusually severe weather, or (x) delays of subcontractors or
suppliers at any tier arising from unforeseeable causes beyond the control
and without the fault or negligence of both the Contractor and the
subcontractors or suppliers; and

ii. The Contractor, within 10 Days from the beginning of any delay (unless
extended by the Contracting Officer), notifies the Contracting Officer in
writing of the causes of delay. The Contracting Officer shall ascertain the
facts and the extent of delay. If, in the judgment of the Contracting Officer,
the findings of fact warrant such action, the time for completing the Work
shall be extended with an appropriate Contract Amendment, the right to
proceed terminated or no action taken by the Contracting Officer. The
findings of the Contracting Officer shall be final and conclusive on the parties,

66

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

but subject to Claims under the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And
Dispute Resolution herein.
c. If, after termination of the Contractors right to proceed, it is determined that the
Contractor was not in default, or that the delay was excusable, the rights and
obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination had been issued
for the convenience of RTD.
d. The Contractor and RTD shall comply with all of the requirements listed in this
Section.
2. TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE: RTD may terminate the performance of Work
under this Contract in whole or in part upon written notice to the Contractor in
accordance with this Article whenever RTD determines that such termination is in its
best interest.
3. FOLLOWING TERMINATION: After receipt of RTDs termination notice the Contractor
shall: (a) stop Work under the Contract on the date and to the extent specified in
the notice; (b) terminate all orders and subcontracts to the extent that they relate to
the performance of Work terminated and place no further orders or subcontracts for
materials, equipment, services, or facilities, except as may be necessary for the
completion of such portion of the Work under the Contract as if not terminated; (c)
if directed by the Contracting Officer, assign to RTD all of the right, title, and interest
of the Contractor under the orders or subcontracts so terminated; (d) if directed by
the Contracting Officer, transfer title and deliver to the District: (1) the fabricated or
unfabricated parts, Work in progress, completed Work, supplies, and other material
produced as a part of, or acquired in connection with the performance of, the Work,
and (2) updated Record Documents to current status including working plans, AsBuilt Drawings, As-Built Schedule, daily logs and diaries, other information, and other
property which, if the Contract had been complete, would have been required to be
furnished to RTD; (e) complete performance of any part of the Work that has not
been terminated by RTDs notice; and (f) take such action as may be necessary, or
as the Contracting Officer may direct, for the protection and preservation of the
property related to this Contract which is in the possession of the Contractor and in
which RTD has or may acquire an interest.
4. PROCEED WITH PERFORMANCE: The Contractor shall proceed immediately with the
performance of the above obligations notwithstanding any delay in determining or
adjusting the amount or amounts to be paid to the Contractor by reason of the total
or partial termination of Work under this Article. The Contractor may submit to the
Contracting Officer a list, certified as to quantity and quality, of any or all items of
termination inventory not previously disposed of, exclusive of items the disposition of
which has been directed or authorized by the Contracting Officer. Not later than 15

67

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Days thereafter, RTD will accept such items and remove them or enter into a
storage agreement covering them, provided that the list submitted shall be subject
to verification by the Contracting Officer upon removal of the items or, if the items
are stored, within 45 Days from the date of submission of the list, and any necessary
adjustment to correct the list as submitted shall be made prior to final settlement.
5. CLAIMS UPON TERMINATION: If RTD serves a written notice of termination (due to
the default of the Contractor OR for convenience), to pursue Claims, the parties
must follow the procedures and requirements of the Article entitled Changes,
Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein, except that neither party needs to file a
Written Notice of Claim. The Contractor must file a Certified Claim identifying
supporting data within 60 Days after receipt of the written notice of termination. If
the Work specified in the Contract is completed by RTD or someone else, RTD must
file a Certified Claim within 60 Days after the Final Acceptance of the Work. RTD
must file a Certified Claim within 120 Days of the service of the written notice of
termination if no further Work is done.
6. Upon failure of the Contractor to submit its termination Certified Claim within the
time allowed, the Contracting Officer may, within 60 Days after Final Acceptance,
determine the amount, if any, due to the Contractor by reason of the termination.
RTD shall pay that amount to the Contractor, or hold that amount in escrow if Claims
have been asserted against the Contractor by RTD or others. The amount
determined by the Contracting Officer under these circumstances cannot be
challenged by the Contractor or its assigns by any means, including a lawsuit, as the
Contractor failed to perform a condition precedent by failing to serve a Certified
Claim as required by this Article and the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And
Dispute Resolution herein. To determine the amount owed to the Contractor under
these circumstances, the Contracting Officer, in good faith, must consider the costs
to RTD to have the Work finished by RTD or others (if applicable) and should also
consider a reasonable allowance for overhead and profit on Work done and accepted
and for materials and equipment provided by the Contractor. The Contracting Officer
should use the documents provided with the Bid or Proposal to determine the proper
amount to be paid to the Contractor. The Contracting Officer may also contact the
Contractor, if possible, to attempt an agreement on the amount to be paid under
this Article. Whether or not an agreement can be made, the Contract shall be
amended accordingly (either by agreement or unilaterally by RTD), and the
determined amount shall be paid to the Contractor or placed into escrow if there are
claims against the Contractor by RTD or others. In arriving at the amount due the
Contractor under this Article, there shall be deducted (1) all unliquidated advance or
other payments made to the Contractor, applicable to the terminated portion of this
Contract, (2) any Claim which RTD may have against the Contractor in connection

68

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

with this Contract, (3) the agreed price for, or the proceeds of sale of, any materials,
supplies, or other things acquired by the Contractor or sold pursuant to the
provisions of this Article and not otherwise recovered by or credited to RTD, and (4)
any outstanding claims of subcontractors or suppliers (of any tier).
7. In the event of a partial termination, the Contractors costs for labor, equipment,
materials, overhead and profit shall be reduced by agreement between the parties to
reflect the lack of costs, overhead and profit on the Work not performed by the
Contractor. Such adjustment shall be evidenced by a Contract Amendment. The Bid
or Proposal documents can be used to arrive at an equitable adjustment. If an
agreement cannot be achieved, the Contracting Officer will use his or her best
judgment to unilaterally adjust the Contract, and the Contractor may file a Claim,
following the procedures and restrictions found in this Article and the Article entitled
Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
8. RTD may make payments for costs incurred by the Contractor in connection with the
terminated portion of the Contract. The aggregate of such payments shall be within
the amount to which the Contractor is entitled under the Contract. In the sole
opinion of the Contracting Officer, if the total of such payments is in excess of the
amounts owed to the Contractor, the excess shall be paid by the Contractor to RTD
upon demand, together with interest computed pursuant to the Colorado Revised
Statutes, for the period from the date such excess payment is received by the
Contractor to the date on which such excess is repaid to RTD.

11.6. PAYMENT
A. CONTRACT COST: In addition to the information and requirements in this Article, see
the Statement of Contract Cost. In the event of a conflict between this Article and the
Statement of Contract Cost, the Statement of Contract Cost shall control.
B. LUMP SUM CONTRACTS: In a Lump Sum contract, the Contractor bids one amount
to do all the Work under the Contract, except there may be contracts wherein the
Contractor is asked to submit bids for one or more alternate Work descriptions. Each
alternate will be bid as a Lump Sum. The Contract Cost is the amount of the lump sum
bid by the Contractor for the base Contract Work description and any alternates chosen
by RTD to be performed under the Contract. The Bid or Proposal documents will be used
to calculate progress payments under the Section entitled Progress Payments herein.
RTD can make progress payments based on the costs to the Contractor of the Work
performed (plus an appropriate amount for overhead costs and profit) or based upon
the value of the Work completed.
C. UNIT PRICE CONTRACTS: The Contract Cost for unit price contracts will be the sum
of the products of the estimated quantities shown on the Bid or Proposal form multiplied

69

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

by the unit prices bid or proposed. In the event of a discrepancy between the unit prices
bid or proposed and extensions (sum totals), the unit price shall govern.
1. MEASUREMENT OF QUANTITIES: Measurement of quantities for payment on unit
price items shall be in accordance with the measurement and payment sections of
the appropriate Technical Specification covering that item of Work, or, absent such
provisions in the Technical Specifications, such measurements shall be in accordance
with local industry practices and standards.
2. VARIATION IN ESTIMATED QUANTITY: If the quantity of a unit-priced item in this
Contract is an estimated quantity and the actual quantity of the unit-priced item
varies more than 25 percent above or below the estimated quantity, an equitable
adjustment in the Contract Cost shall be made upon demand of either party. The
equitable adjustment shall be based upon any increase or decrease in costs due
solely to the variation above 125 percent or below 75 percent of the estimated
quantity. Changes outside these parameters will be handled in accordance with the
Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution when proper notices are
made.
D. PROGRESS PAYMENTS:
1. RTD shall make progress payments monthly as the Work proceeds, or at more
frequent intervals as determined by the Contracting Officer based on written
estimates of Work accomplished which meets the standards of quality established
under the Contract, as approved by the Contracting Officer. If required by the
Technical Specifications, the Contractor shall prepare a cost-loaded Project schedule.
Monthly Progress Schedule updates, in such detail as requested by the Contracting
Officer, will substantiate the payment amount requested in order to provide a basis
for determining progress payments. In the preparation of estimates, the Contracting
Officer may authorize material delivered on the site and preparatory Work done to
be taken into consideration. Material delivered to the Contractor at locations other
than the site may also be taken into consideration if:
a. Consideration is specifically authorized by this Contract; and
b. The Contractor furnishes satisfactory evidence that it has acquired title to such
material and that the material will be used to perform this Contract; and
c. The Contractor, at its expense, has the material stored in a bonded warehouse
or other secured area acceptable to RTD and insured in the name of RTD at its
full replacement value.
2. RETAINAGE: RTD shall retain and hold five percent of each progress payment until
Final Acceptance of the Work. If verified statements of Claim are filed against the
Contract, the Contracting Officer will also withhold the sum total of such verified

70

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

statements of Claim from the progress payments following the receipt of such
verified statements of Claim. The total retention should always be at least five
percent of the total sum of progress payments made to date plus any retention paid
to the Contractor plus the sum total of all verified statements of Claim filed against
the Contract Cost. Such Claims can be made by RTD, the surety or any tier
subcontractor or supplier. If verified statements of Claim have been filed against the
Contractor by RTD, the surety or any tier subcontractor or supplier, the sum total of
the Claims will continue to be held in retainage until the Claims are resolved or
retention is returned to the Contractor pursuant to the Section entitled Payment Of
Retainage Herein. The Contractor cannot file a Claim or take other legal
proceedings against RTD for the retainage held to resolve verified statements of
Claim.
3. All material and Work covered by progress payments shall, at the time of payment,
become the sole property of RTD, but this shall not be construed as:
a. Relieving the Contractor from its sole responsibility for all material and Work
upon which payments have been made, the restoration of any damaged Work or
the replacement of any defective Work; or
b. Waiving the right of RTD to require the fulfillment of all of the terms of the
Contract.
4. Along with each request for progress payments, the Contractor shall furnish the
following certification, or payment shall not be made:
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that:
a. The amounts requested are only for performance in accordance with the
Technical Specifications, terms and conditions of the Contract;
b. Payments to subcontractors and suppliers have been made from previous
payments received under the Contract, and timely payments will be made from
the proceeds of the payment covered by this certification, in accordance with the
requirements of this Contract and federal and state law;
c. This request for progress payment does not include any amount which the
Contractor intends to withhold or retain from a subcontractor or supplier.
5. The certification required in this Article must be signed by either the Project
superintendent, the Contractors Project manager or an owner/officer of the
Contractor. The Contractor must provide a letter of authorization giving authority to
the person signing the certification. The signer must have or must obtain the actual
knowledge of the items listed in the certification before signing it.
Any non-compliance with this Article, including a false certification, constitutes a

71

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

breach of the Contract and the classification of the Contractor as non-responsible for
future RTD work.
6. In order for RTD to verify the Contractors compliance with Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise (DBE) provisions of this Contract, if any, and the requirements that the
Contractor perform a certain percentage of the Work, the Contractor, with each
request for payment, shall submit status reports itemizing past payments (if different
from prior status reports) and anticipated payments (status report) out of the
present payment request to all subcontractors and suppliers.
7. RTD shall pay the progress payment to the Contractor after:
a. Presentation of a properly executed voucher, including an approved Monthly
Progress Schedule;
b. Completion and acceptance of all Work listed in the voucher; and
c. Presentation of a release of all Claims against RTD for any and all items provided
or portions of the Work performed that is included in whole or in part in the
progress payment application or voucher, other than those Claims previously
filed by a Written Notice of Claim or a Certified Claim. A release may also be
required of the assignee if the Contractors Claim to amounts payable under this
Contract has been assigned. If no release is attached to the payment application
or voucher, the mere act of presenting the application or voucher to RTD for
payment acts, by operation of this Article, as a release of all Claims against RTD
for any and all items provided or portions of the Work performed that is included
in whole or in part in the progress payment application or voucher, other than
those Claims previously filed by a Written Notice of Claim or a Certified Claim.
If the Contractor has presented a payment application or voucher, the Contractor
is foreclosed or prevented from later filing a Written Notice of Claim or a Certified
Claim for those items or portions of Work that are included in whole or in part in
the payment application or voucher. Except the Contractor can file a Written
Notice of Claim or a Certified Claim for those items or portions of Work listed in
the payment application or voucher that RTD fails or refuses to pay. Such
Written Notice of Claim or Certified Claim must comply with the time limitations
and other requirements of the Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute
Resolution and the requirements of all other Articles.
E. FINAL PAYMENT:
1. RTD shall pay the final amount due to the Contractor under this Contract after:
a. Completion and Final Acceptance of the Work;

72

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

b. Presentation of a properly executed application for payment by the Contractor on
a form approved by the Contracting Officer;
c. Presentation of Contractors release of all Claims against RTD arising by virtue of
this Contract, other than those Claims previously filed by a Written Notice of
Claim or a Certified Claim or those Claims presently being excepted from the
release by a timely Written Notice of Claim. A release may also be required of
the assignee if the Contractors Claim to amounts payable under this Contract
has been assigned;
d. Contractors furnishing to RTD, in organized and indexed loose-leaf binders, all
operating instructions, manuals, warranties, guaranties, bonds and the like
required by the Contract Documents or normally furnished under local practice;
and
e. Contractors submission of all Record Documents, including complete As-Built
Drawings showing the exact location of all Work; utility locations and
connections; clean-out, wiring and duct diagrams and the like; and a complete
As-Built Schedule showing when the Work was actually completed.
2. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that its acceptance of final payment from
RTD shall constitute its release of all Claims against the District except those for
which a Written Notice of Claim has previously been served upon the Contracting
Officer. The Contractor further acknowledges and agrees that all Written Notices of
Claims must be served upon the Contracting Officer prior to or at the time of the
application for final payment. Failure to provide Written Notice of Claim prior to or at
the time of the application for final payment is a complete bar to pursuing the Claim.
This requirement is an addition to the requirement, which also applies, under the
Article entitled Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein, that all Written
Notices of Claims be served upon the Contracting Officer or the RTD PM within
seven Days of the incident or obtaining knowledge of the circumstance which forms
the basis of the Claim.
F. PAYMENT OF RETAINAGE: Final payment does not include the payment of the
amounts held by RTD in retainage. After Final Acceptance of the Work and completion
of all requirements under the Contract, RTD will twice advertise a final settlement date
in a newspaper of general circulation. The final settlement date is the date by which
claims against the Contractor must be received by RTD, in written form as prescribed by
C.R.S.  38-26-107. RTD will continue to hold retainage in the sum total of verified
statements of Claim filed by RTD against the Contractor and the amounts indicated in
the received verified statements of Claim pursuant to C.R.S.  38-26-107. The remaining
retainage will be paid as soon as practicable after the final settlement date. Should the
Claims asserted against the Contractor by RTD, the surety, any tier subcontractor or

73

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

supplier exceed the amount held in retainage, the final payment or any progress
payment will be reduced by the difference and that amount will be added to the
retainage. If verified statements of Claim have been filed against the Contractor by RTD,
the surety, or any tier subcontractor or supplier, the sum total of the verified statements
of Claim will continue to be held in retainage until the Claims are resolved. The
Contractor cannot file a Claim or take other legal proceedings against RTD for the
retainage held to resolve verified statements of Claim.
G. PAYMENTS WITHHELD:
1. The Contracting Officer or the PM may decline to approve an application for payment
and may withhold the payment in whole or in part, to the extent necessary and
reasonable to protect RTD. Similarly, because of subsequently discovered evidence
or subsequent inspection, the Contracting Officer may nullify the whole or any part
of any payment due to such extent as may be necessary, in his/her opinion, to
protect RTD from loss because of any reasonable reason, including, for purposes of
demonstration and not limiting:
a. Any Claim asserted by RTD against the Contractor including any Claim for
defective Work not remedied;
b. Third-party claims filed or reasonable evidence indicating the probability of the
filing of such claims;
c. Failure of the Contractor to make payments properly to subcontractors for labor,
materials or equipment;
d. Reasonable doubt that the Work can be completed for the unpaid balance of the
Contract Cost;
e. Damage to RTD or a third party, including but not limited to damage to the Work
site, completed Work or materials, or supplies or equipment used, or to be used,
to complete the Work;
f.

Reasonable indication that the Work will not be completed (Final Acceptance and
completion of all requirements under the Contract including complete Record
Documents including As-Built Drawings and the As-Built Schedule) within the
Contract Schedule;

g. Failure of the Contractor to carry out the Work in strict accordance with the
Contract Documents; or
h. Lack of an updated or realistic Monthly Progress Schedule or an accurate As-Built
Schedule.

74

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

2. When the grounds enumerated in above are removed, payments shall be made from
amounts withheld.
3. Contractor shall not be entitled to interest on sums withheld by RTD pursuant to this
section.
H. HOLD HARMLESS: In the event that any claimant that has furnished labor, materials,
equipment, supplies or other goods or services to the Contractor sues RTD for payment
of any money allegedly due by the Contractor and/or any tier subcontractor, then the
Contractor shall protect, defend, save and hold RTD harmless from any such suit and
pay or reimburse RTD for all expenses incurred in connection with any such lawsuit,
including but not limited to reasonable attorneys fees and court costs.

11.7. CHANGES, CLAIMS, AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
A. CHANGE DEFINITIONS:
1. CERTIFIED CLAIM: A written document that describes the basis for a Claim and
must be submitted according to the requirements of the Contract. It must include:
the date of the incident or the date when the Contractor obtained knowledge of the
circumstance that is the basis of the Claim, a detailed summary of the pertinent
facts, and the names and addresses (including phone numbers) of all witnesses to
the pertinent facts. The Certified Claim must contain a Change Order Proposal (COP)
which shall contain the specific and calculated remedy that the Contractor is seeking
(i.e., the amount of compensation, amount of time extension, etc.) and the rationale
and calculations for the remedy (how the remedy was calculated). The Certified
Claim must also contain verified statements that the Claim is made in good faith,
that supporting data is accurate and complete, and that the requested relief (i.e.,
the amounts of compensation and/or time extension, etc.) accurately reflects the
Contract adjustments for which the Contractor believes it is entitled. The statements
must be certified by the sole proprietor, an officer, general partner, director or a
senior company official of the Contractor. The Certified Claim must also include a
detailed summary of all supporting documents and data and a detailed summary of
all witnesses and experts testimony and/or reports that establish and prove the
nature of the Claim and the amount of compensation and/or time extension
requested.
2. CHANGE NOTICE (CN): A notice issued by the RTD Representative specifying a
potential change in the Work, the Technical Specifications and/or the Contract
Schedule. The CN is not an authorization to proceed with the potential change to the
Work, Technical Specifications, and/or schedule. The CN may, at the discretion of
RTD, include a request that the Contractor provide a Change Summary or a Change
Order Proposal (COP).

75

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

3. CHANGE ORDER (CO) / CONTRACT AMENDMENT (CA): A bilateral document that
modifies the Technical Specifications, the Scope of Work, the Contract Cost, and/or
the Project schedule, and/or revises other terms and conditions of the Contract
within the parameters of the original Scope of Work. It is to be signed by the
Contracting Officer or the RTD PM and the Contractor, acknowledging agreement
and consent of both parties.
Each CO shall contain a sworn certification by the Contractor, in form acceptable to
RTD, that the amount of time and/or compensation requested includes all known
and anticipated impacts or amounts, direct, indirect and consequential, which may
be incurred as a result of the event or matter giving rise to such proposed change
and that the Contractor has no reason to believe and does not believe that the
factual basis for the CO is falsely represented. RTD shall have the right to request all
records and correspondence between the Contractors staff and subcontractors
relating to such CO to verify any amounts or statements made in the CO.
4. CHANGE ORDER PROPOSAL (COP): A written offer prepared by the Contractor and
submitted to RTD which sets out the full details of the proposed change and the
impacts of the proposed change on the parties rights and obligations under this
Contract, including proposed impacts on the Scope of Work, the Contract Cost
and/or the Project schedule, such as to make the COP the basis for a CO or CA. The
additional costs that the Contractor reasonably expects to incur (the labor, material,
equipment, field/office overhead and profit elements) shall be estimated with all
necessary supporting calculations and information, including detailed particulars of
additional sums to be paid to the subcontractors and mark-ups on subcontracted
Work. The COP should show the exact nature of the proposed improvements, the
specific changes that would be required to the final Project design, Technical
Specifications, or to the design and construction requirements (as applicable). It
should also indicate any impact on the achievement of the DBE goals, if any, and
any impacts on requirements detailed in the Environmental Assessment (EA)/Finding
of No Significant Impact (FONSI), if any.
If the COP is being provided to support a Claim, the COP should contain the date of
the incident or the date when the Contractor obtained knowledge of the
circumstance that is the basis of the Claim, a detailed summary of the pertinent
facts, the names and addresses (including phone numbers) of all witnesses to the
pertinent facts, the specific and calculated remedy that the Contractor is seeking
(i.e., the amount of compensation, amount of time extension, etc.), and the
rationale and calculations for the remedy (how the remedy was calculated).
5. CHANGE SUMMARY (CS): A short document prepared by the Contractor setting out
the general nature and a rough order of magnitude (ROM) of a Change being
proposed for consideration by the RTD PM and the impact of such proposed change,

76

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

including any impacts on the Scope of Work, Technical Specifications, estimates of
changes to the Contract Cost, and/or to the Project schedule. A CS can be prepared
to support a Claim, in response to a request from RTD or it can be the Contractors
value-added or cost-savings suggestion to vary the Scope of Work and/or Technical
Specifications; this latter form of a CS should be considered an offer to which RTD is
allowed 90 Days to respond in order to maintain the ROM listed in terms of Contract
Cost and schedule impact.
6. CLAIM: A demand or assertion by one of the parties seeking an adjustment,
interpretation or amendment of the Contract terms, compensation, payment of (or
credit for) money, extension (or reduction) of time or other relief with respect to the
terms of the Contract. It also includes other disputes and matters in question
between RTD and the Contractor arising out of the Contract. A Notice of NonCompliance is not a Claim unless the Contractor does not bring the Work into
compliance as specified in the Notice of Non-Compliance. A voucher, invoice, or
other routine request for payment that is not listed in some form as a Claim is not
a Claim.
7. CONTRACT DIRECTIVE (CD): A unilateral order signed by the Contracting Officer or
the RTD PM that directs the Contractor to perform as the PM directs in compliance
with the Scope of Work/Technical Specifications/Project schedule and/or directs a
change in the Scope of Work/Technical Specifications/Project schedule. A CD may or
may not list the PMs decision as to an increase (or decrease) in the Contract Cost
and/or Contract Schedule. Whether or not the Contractor disputes any portion of the
CD, the Contractor must proceed as directed in the CD or be in default of the
Contract subject to termination. Should either party believe that the CD will require a
change in the Technical Specifications, the Scope of Work, the Contract Cost and/or
the Project schedule, the parties must negotiate a Change Order or Contract
Amendment before any modification of the Contract can be allowed.
8. NOTICE OF CHANGE ORDER PROPOSAL (NCOP) also referred to as a WRITTEN
NOTICE OF CLAIM: A written notice from the Contractor indicating that it believes it
is entitled to a change in the Scope of Work or the Technical Specifications or an
increase in the Contract Cost and/or Contract Schedule, often based upon a verbal
or written communication that it considers to be a CD, Field Design Change (FDC) or
Field Clarification Notice (FCN). The NCOP shall contain the date of the incident or
the date when the Contractor obtained knowledge of the circumstance that is the
basis of the Claim; the circumstances which are the basis for the Claim; (if
applicable) the source of the communication that the Contractor regards as a CD,
FDC, or FCN; the remedy that the Contractor is seeking (i.e., compensation, time
extension, etc.); and the rationale for the remedy. A brief summary of the pertinent
facts, the names and addresses (including phone numbers) of all witnesses is

77

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

required if known. If the basis for a Claim or a CO is a differing site condition or a
delay caused by RTD that extents the Term of Performance, the Contractor must
supply all of the information required by this Section and be timely filed with RTD. A
verbal or written communication from the Contractor that it may potentially have a
Claim is not a NCOP nor a Written Notice of Claim. To constitute a NCOP or a
Written Notice of Claim the document must state that the Contractor has a Claim,
state the requirements of such a Claim listed in this Section, and timely follow with a
CS and a COP as appropriate.
9. REQUEST FOR A CHANGE ORDER PROPOSAL (RCOP): A written request from the
Contracting Officer or the RTD PM to the Contractor that the Contractor provide a
COP in response to a CN, CS, CD, FDC, or FCN. The CN can be included in the RCOP.
A COP must be provided within 21 Days of the request, unless the parties can agree
in writing to a different time. Failure to meet the deadline listed will entitle RTD to
liquidated damages.
B. CHANGES DIRECTED BY RTD; POTENTIAL CHANGES REQUESTED BY RTD OR
SUGGESTED BY THE CONTRACTOR:
1. The Contracting Officer or the RTD PM may, at any time, without notice to the
sureties, if any, by written order designated or indicated to be a CD, make changes
in the Work within the general scope of the Contract, including changes:
a. In the Technical Specifications (including drawings and designs) and the
Construction Drawings, including changes to materials and equipment;
b. In the Scope of Work, method or manner of performance of the Work;
c. In RTD-furnished facilities, equipment, materials, services, or site; or
d. Directing acceleration in the performance of the Work.
2. Except as provided in this Article, no order, statement, or conduct of the Contracting
Officer or RTD PM shall be treated as a change under this Article or entitle the
Contractor to an equitable adjustment. Any written or oral communication not
specifically designated or indicated to be a CN, CD, or RCOP, which includes
direction, instruction, interpretation, or determination from RTD personnel, including
the Contracting Officer or PM, shall be considered informational only and does not
entitle the Contractor to a CO. However, any communication dealing specifically with
immediate public safety concerns, including the safety of RTD and Contractor
personnel, shall be considered a CD and not informational only.
3. Whenever the Contracting Officer or the RTD PM requests a CS either through a CN
or CD, a written CS must be submitted within seven Days of the request, unless the

78

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

parties agree in writing to a different time. Failure to meet the deadline listed will
entitle RTD to liquidated damages.
4. Whenever the Contracting Officer or the RTD PM requests a COP either through a
CN, CD or RCOP, a COP must be submitted within 21 Days of the request, unless the
parties agree in writing to a different time. Failure to meet the deadline listed will
entitle RTD to liquidated damages.
5. The COP should be signed by the Contractors representative and is considered an
offer from the Contractor to perform the changes listed for the amounts listed, the
changes to the Work or Technical Specifications, and for the impacts to the Project
schedule listed. The elements (costs, schedule impacts, Scope of Work impacts, etc.)
of the COP, since it is an offer, shall be left open to acceptance by the RTD
Representative for a period of 90 Days after RTDs receipt of the COP. Attempted
withdrawal of a COP before the 90-Day expiration date will subject the Contractor to
a CD from RTD containing the terms of the COP and not subject to dispute
resolution procedures.
The cost of preparing a COP will be borne by the Contractor unless the parties agree
to some other cost arrangement prior to the preparation of the COP.
C. CLAIMS:
1. If the Contractor believes that a written or oral communication from the Contracting
Officer or PM is not informational only and constitutes a CD with a substantial
change in the Scope of Work or the Technical Specifications and the Contractor
believes it is entitled to a CO or CA based upon the verbal or written communication,
or if the Contractor believes it is entitled to a CO for any other reason (including
delays caused by RTD), or if it has the basis for a Claim against RTD for any reason
related in any way to the Contract, the Contractor must serve the Contracting Officer
or the PM with a written NCOP or Written Notice of Claim. The NCOP should be
followed with a CS and a Certified Claim as appropriate in the circumstances and
timely served as required in this Article.
2. Contractor acknowledges that it is a condition precedent to pursue a Claim for the
Contractor to timely serve the RTD Representative with a written NCOP or Written
Notice of Claim in order for it to proceed with any Claim against RTD. The Contractor
must serve the RTD Representative or Contracting Officer with the written NCOP or
a Written Notice of Claim within seven Days of when it has knowledge (or
reasonably should have obtained knowledge if acting as a prudent and
knowledgeable contractor) that it has a basis for a Claim against RTD. This Section
also applies to delay Claims. A NCOP or a Written Notice of Claim must be served
upon RTD when the Contractor has knowledge that an event or condition has
occurred that gives rise to a delay Claim.

79

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

3. The Contractor has knowledge of the circumstance that is the basis for the Claim
when a reasonable person in the position of the Contractor should have, through the
use of Due Diligence, realized the circumstance that is the basis for the Claim.
4. The date of service of any required document described in this Article including a
Written Notice of Claim, NCOP, CS or Certified Claim is the date it is actually received
by the Contracting Officer or the RTD Representative, no matter the method of
delivery, and that date cannot be disputed by the Contractor.
5. Failure to provide the RTD Representative with a written NCOP or Written Notice of
Claim within seven Days of the Contractor obtaining knowledge of the circumstance
giving rise to a Claim will foreclose the Contractor from pursuing the Claim. The time
period to provide the written NCOP can be extended by a written agreement of the
Parties.
6. The following circumstances do NOT relieve or stay the Contractor of the need to
timely file an NCOP or a Written Notice of Claim: (1) RTDs actual knowledge of the
incident or the circumstance which forms the basis of a Claim; (2) a verbal notice
from the Contractor to any RTD personnel including the Contracting Officer or the
PM of the potential Claim; or (3) negotiations between the parties for an equitable
adjustment or other relief based on the Claim within the seven-Day period.
7. Once a written NCOP or Written Notice of Claim is received by RTD, it can attempt to
negotiate a CO, it can deny the Claim, or it can take no action. Regardless of what
RTD does, the Contractor must serve RTD with a written CS within 14 Days of the
service of the NCOP or Written Notice of Claim (even if negotiations are taking
place). The time period can be extended by a written agreement of the Parties
8. The Contractor acknowledges that it is a condition precedent to pursue a Claim for
the Contractor to serve RTDs Representative with a written CS within 14 Days of the
service of the NCOP upon RTD or within a reasonable time period agreed upon by
the parties in writing. Failure to provide RTDs Contracting Officer or PM with a CS
within 14 Days after the service of the NCOP (or Written Notice of Claim) will
preclude the Contractor from pursuing the Claim. Negotiations between the parties
for an equitable adjustment or other relief based on the Claim within the 14-Day
period do not relieve or stay the Contractor of the need to timely file a written CS.
9. Once a written CS is received by RTD, it can attempt to negotiate a CO, it can deny
the Claim, or it can take no action. Regardless of what RTD does, the Contractor
must serve RTD with a written COP within 21 Days of the service of the CS (even if
negotiations are taking place). Contractor acknowledges that it is a condition
precedent to pursue a Claim that a written COP must then be submitted within 21
Days of the service of CS upon RTD, or within a reasonable time period agreed upon

80

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

by the parties in writing. Failure to provide a COP within 21 Days after the service of
the CS will preclude the Contractor from pursuing the Claim.
10. Settlement of any Claim is desirable and encouraged. Each party should willingly
exchange any information or documents, especially those requested of the other
party. If RTD gives no response to the Contractor within 30 Days following receipt of
the COP that supports the Contractors Claim, or if the parties cannot come to an
agreement as to a CO or CA within 30 Days following receipt of the COP, RTD shall
be deemed to have rejected the COP and the matter is to be referred to the Dispute
Resolution Procedures. The time period to attempt to resolve the Claim before taking
it to the Dispute Resolution Procedures can be extended by a written agreement of
the parties. However, the attempted resolution of a Claim before taking it to the
Dispute Resolution Procedures can only be extended to a maximum period of 120
Days. After that time period the Contractor is foreclosed from pursuing the Claim.
11. Regardless of RTDs rejection of the Claim, the ongoing attempts to negotiate a
resolution of the Claim, or whether the Claim is taken to the Dispute Resolution
Procedures, the Contractor shall continue to complete the Work required under the
Contract and as directed by RTD. The Contractor cannot delay its completion of the
Work or its other obligations under the Contract pending the outcome of its Claim
against RTD. The Contractor shall, and shall ensure that the subcontractors shall,
use all reasonable efforts to mitigate costs and to meet the approved Project
schedule. Such efforts include:
a. (Rearranging the order in which the Work is scheduled to be performed under
the Project schedule;
b. Ensuring that the Work be divided (or further divided) into components that can
be undertaken separately and/or concurrently; and
c. Minimizing the costs (including overhead) that are incurred during the
continuance of Claim negotiations and/or the Dispute Resolution Procedures.
12. Any Contractor that fails to proceed diligently to perform a Contract based on the
outcome of a Claim or pending a Claim, or who asserts or defends a Claim in bad
faith (in the sole determination of RTD), is in breach of the Contract subject to
Termination for Cause and may be declared non-responsible for future RTD work.
13. The Contractor shall not make any changes to, or deviate in any way from, the
Scope of Work and Technical Specifications, except as permitted under this Article.
As a condition precedent to Contractors right to receive additional payment or an
extension of a completion milestone for work that is outside the original scope of the
Work, the Contractor shall have received either a CD from RTD or a CO for such
Work signed by RTD and the Contractor. To the extent that Contractor undertakes

81

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

any such Work without receiving a CD or a CO, the Contractor shall be deemed to
have performed such Work voluntarily and shall not be entitled to a CO in
connection with such Work. In addition, the Contractor may be required to remove
or otherwise undo any such Work, at its sole cost and expense.
14. Any increase in the Contract Cost allowed under the Contract shall exclude:
a. (costs caused by the breach of contract, fault, negligence, act or failure to act of
Contractor, its employees, agents, officers or subcontractors or any other
persons for whom the Contractor may be contractually or legally responsible;
b. costs which could reasonably have been avoided by Contractor by re-sequencing,
reallocating or redeploying its forces to other portions of the Work or to other
activities unrelated to the Work; and
c. costs for any rejected Work which failed to meet the requirements of the
Contract Documents and for any necessary remedial Work.
15. If no CD or CN has been provided by RTD, but it becomes obvious that there is a
defect in the Technical Specifications (such as a violation of the building code or the
fact that the Work is not constructible as drawn) that requires the Work to be
changed from the Technical Specifications, the Notice to Proceed assumes an order
to perform the Work properly and constitutes a communication that the Contractor
can assume is a CN based upon the defective Technical Specifications. The
Contractor must send a NCOP written confirmation of the change as described in this
Article within seven Days once it becomes apparent to the Contractor, or should
have become apparent with the Contractors use of Due Diligence, that the Technical
Specifications are defective. The Contractor should then proceed as directed in this
Article. Failure to provide the timely NCOP precludes and prevents the Contractor
from seeking an equitable adjustment for the change, and RTD will correct the
Technical Specifications without the Contractor being entitled to a CO. The NCOP is
subject to challenge by RTD based upon the Section entitled Review Of Contract
Documents And Legal Requirements herein.
D. DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
1. The first stage of the Dispute Resolution Procedures is for the Parties to meet at a
higher managerial level and discuss the possibility of settlement. Since settlement of
any Claim is desirable and encouraged, each Party is required to exchange any
information or documents requested of the other party before the higher-level
managers meet. If the meeting proves unsuccessful, the Parties shall engage a
professional mediator, paid equally by the Parties, to conduct a non-binding
settlement conference with the higher-level managers.

82

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

2. If settlement still cannot be achieved and the parties do not agree upon another
form of dispute resolution, in order to pursue the Claim, the Contractor must file suit
in the State District Court for the City and County of Denver and adhere to all of the
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure including discovery rules and the Colorado Rules of
Evidence. The parties agree to this jurisdiction and venue as it is the location of
RTDs managerial offices and where the Contract was negotiated, signed and
administered.
Regardless of any denial of the Claim, negotiations or other dispute resolution
process, or the dates of Substantial Completion or Final Acceptance, the statute of
limitations for a civil action on the Claim begins to run from the date of the incident
or the date when the Contractor obtained knowledge of the circumstance that is the
basis of the Claim (or should have obtained knowledge through the use of Due
Diligence).
E. PRICING OF CHANGE ORDERS:
1. PRICING OF CHANGE ORDERS: RTD and the Contractor (on its own behalf and on
behalf of its subcontractors) shall endeavor to negotiate, in good faith, a reasonable
cost for each CO. In general, the price of a CO shall be negotiated as a lump sum
price. However, the Contractor is to follow the protocol described below in
estimating the price of a CO. The same protocol is to be used on COs which are
based on time and material costs.
a. RTD will obtain or calculate an Internal Cost Estimate (ICE) for the cost of the
Work described in the CO using the protocol described below.
b. The Contractors estimated price for the CO will be calculated in terms of actual
costs for labor, material, rentals, etc., and then mark-ups for overhead and profit
will be added in accordance with this Section.
c. The actual cost of construction labor should include a labor surcharge of 46
percent of actual unburdened wages; construction labor are those individuals
who are working full-time with materials or equipment at construction or storage
sites. The actual cost of labor for non-construction field workers [such as field
supervisors, quality control/quality assurance personnel, safety managers,
construction managers, etc. who spend at least two-thirds of their time at the
construction site] should include a labor surcharge of 60 percent of actual
unburdened wages. The actual cost of labor for design and other professional
services (excluding the Contractors management or professional personnel)
should include a labor surcharge of 120 percent of actual unburdened wages.
d. Whether the CO is based upon a negotiated lump sum price or time and
materials method, the mark-ups for general and administrative overhead

83

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

(including all management) and profit shall be calculated as set forth in this
Article.
e. Actual labor rates must be established by certified payroll records. However, if
the rates are higher than customary for that type of labor in the local market, the
rates can be negotiated. If there remains a dispute over labor costs, the labor
rates will be calculated using the appropriate, unburdened Davis Bacon rates in
force at the time of the CO for the location of the Work or the average salary of
such personnel in the Denver Metro area.
f.

If the proposed price is within five percent of the ICE, which percentage may be
adjusted at RTDs sole discretion, the PM can accept it. However, if a proposed
price from the Contractor exceeds the ICE by more than five percent, or the
percentage determined by RTD, there are several options available to the PM:
the Parties can negotiate a higher amount but there must be a compelling
reason articulated in the justification narrative; RTD can issue a CD for the Work
to be done on a time and materials basis following the protocols detailed in this
Section 7.4; or RTD can submit a CD in the amount of the ICE and the
Contractor can file a Claim for the difference to be resolved by the Claim process.

g. Subcontracts shall be subject to the pricing procedure and follow the same
protocols listed in this Section when calculating a subcontract price. This includes
the price being less than seven percent over the RTD ICE amount. The
provisions in this Section 7.4 are flow-down provisions that apply to all
subcontracts.
2. MARK-UPS:
a. In addition to costs for labor, equipment and materials listed in this Article, the
Contractor or subcontractor directly performing the Work will be entitled to a
mark-up of 14 percent of the actual costs and surcharges.
b. A subsidiary of the Contractor or a subsidiary of the parent of the Contractor
including any member of a joint venture is considered the Contractor, not a
subcontractor.
c. Items Included in the mark-up:
i.

The mark-up amount (14 percent) is a full and complete compensation for
profit, fee, and all overhead including equipment and tools consumed or
depreciated in the performance of the Work.

ii. The mark-up also includes other indirect costs of the added or changed
Work, as well as profit and costs thereon, including any and all costs and
expenses incurred due to any delay or inefficiencies in connection with the

84

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

added or changed Work, even if the CO extends milestones including
Substantial Completion and/or Final Acceptance.
iii. The mark-up shall be considered to include, among other costs: bond
premiums; incidental job burdens; bonuses; field, jobsite and general home
office expenses of all types (including timekeepers, bookkeepers and other
general office help); and management and supervisory expenses of all types.
iv. The mark-up rate includes the salaries of all field and home office personnel,
including management, who do not spend at least 67 percent of their time
outside, on the construction site including: supervisors, controllers, design
reviewers, other reviewers, inspectors, accountants, book keepers, and
workers of any type and of every level who do not work primarily on the
construction site . Personnel which are at least 67 percent on the
construction site are considered construction labor or non-construction field
workers whose salaries are actual costs with labor surcharges as listed in this
Article.
v. The mark-up percentage also includes: all costs for any and all travel,
transportation, lodging, food or other sustenance expenses (except for any
experts or consultants specifically required for some extraordinary purpose
and pre-approved by RTD); all field trailers; all field office costs, including
office equipment (owned or rented); mobilization; telecommunications
charges; fuel for vehicles or equipment; autos and trucks (either owned or
rented); the use of equipment owned by the Contractor; permits including
any fees charged by relevant authorities; performance and payment bonds;
all insurances required under the Contract; the employers share of taxes,
fees, insurances and other benefits provided by the employer for the benefit
of the employees; all administrative and general costs (field and home
offices); and all other overhead, general conditions, and indirect costs.
vi. With respect to construction- and non-construction-related labor costs,
overhead is included as part of the labor surcharge described in this Article.
This includes hand tools, phones, tablets, computers, etc. used in the field.
With respect to professional services, overhead is included as part of the
labor surcharge described in this Article, including computer-assisted drafting
and design systems, computers, facsimile transmission machines, scanners,
paper, etc.
d. Subcontracted Work. In the case of subcontracted Work, in addition to the 14
percent mark-up amount paid to the subcontractor which has done the Work,
only one additional mark-up shall be allowed, notwithstanding the actual number
of intervening subcontractors. This one-time 7.5 percent mark-up on the

85

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

subcontract amount shall fully compensate the Contractor and any intervening
subcontractors for oversight, administration, overhead and profit with respect to
the subcontracted Work.
e. Higher-Tier Subcontractor Costs. If Work is being performed by a lower-tier
subcontractor, the Contractor and higher-tier subcontractor(s) will share in the
7.5 percent markup as agreed upon between the Contractor and the higher-tier
subcontractor(s). If no agreement can be achieved, the Contractor and any
intervening higher tier subcontractors shall equally share in the 7.5 percent
mark-up of the subcontract amount.
f.

Materials and Equipment. No mark-up will be paid to Contractor for any materials
or equipment furnished by RTD.

g. Credit Items. Where the Contractors or any subcontractors portion of a change
involves credit items, or the proposed change is a net deductive change, the
Contractor shall include all the Contractors and subcontractors overhead and
profits in computing the value of the credit.
h. Contingency. Contingency is built into the mark-ups. No additional contingency
will be allowed, including a contingency for risk or complexity of any sort, except
that the Contractor or a subcontractor whose scope of work involves an
extraordinary higher than normal risk or complexity, such as high voltage
electrical systems work or train control software, can negotiate up to an
additional five percent fee as overhead on the actual costs. The amount of a
contingency fee may be the subject of a Claim and dispute resolution.
3. SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA: Before awarding any subcontract or
subcontract modification, the Contractor shall require the subcontractor to submit
cost or pricing data (actually or by specific identification in writing), unless the price
is:
a. Based on adequate price competition;
b. Based on established catalog or market prices or commercial items sold in
substantial quantities to the general public; or
c. Set by law or regulation.
The Contractor shall require the subcontractor to certify that, to the best of its
knowledge and belief, the data submitted was accurate, complete, and current
as of the date of agreement on the negotiated price of the subcontract or
subcontract modification.
a. Based on adequate price competition;

86

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

b. Based on established catalog or market prices of commercial items sold in
substantial quantities to the general public; or
i.

the Contractor or a subcontractor furnished cost or pricing data that was not
complete, accurate, or current, or

ii. a subcontractor or prospective subcontractor furnished the Contractor cost or
pricing data that was not complete, accurate, or current, or
iii. the Contractor or a subcontractor furnished data of any description that was
not accurate,
F. UNIT PRICE CONTRACT CHANGES: On unit-price contracts, if no CD or CN has been
provided by RTD but the actual quantities used when following the Technical
Specifications exceed the estimated quantities by more than 20 percent, the Notice to
Proceed assumes an order to proceed as per the Technical Specifications and constitutes
a communication that the Contractor can assume is a CD. The Contractor must send a
written NCOP as described in this Section within five business days once it becomes
apparent to the Contractor, or should have become apparent with the Contractors use
of Due Diligence, that the actual quantities will exceed the estimated quantities by more
than 20 percent. The Contractor should then proceed as directed in this Article.
G. DELAY DAMAGES:
1. Notwithstanding the fact that RTD is entitled to use General Float Time, a Contractor
can submit Claims for equitable adjustments due to delays caused by RTD or its
agents (after all General Float Time has been used by RTD), subject to the following
Sections and only if the Contractor has complied with all of the conditions precedent
listed above (i.e., a timely NCOP or Written Notice of Claim, a timely CS, and a
timely Certified Claim).
2. Since General Float Time can be used by the Contractor or RTD or both, it is
insufficient for the Contractor to seek damages simply because it was delayed past
milestones or the completion date listed in its expedited schedule. To claim an
equitable adjustment, including damages based upon delays, the Contractor must
have suffered actual damages that can be readily supported with documentary
evidence caused by some specific incident or circumstance. The actual damages
must be for cost items not already calculated in the Bid or Proposal. Expenses
throughout the entire Term of Performance as established in the Contract by RTD
should have been calculated into the Bid or Proposal (as shown in the schedule of
values) and cannot be recovered unless the delays extend days and expenses past
the milestones, Substantial Completion deadline, Final Acceptance deadline, and the
Term of Performance established by RTD in the Contract.

87

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

3. RTD is not responsible for damages or delays caused by weather, force majeure,
acts of God, acts of war, vandals, terrorists, or persons or entities acting outside of
RTDs direction and control including but not limited to building or zoning
departments and other entities or authorities under whose control or direction the
Work is performed.
4. Basis for Delay Damages, Calculations of Cost and Acceleration Costs:
a. Only critical path delays and disruption damages shall be compensable and only
in the case of (1) an RTD-caused delay to the extent that it entitles the
Contractor to an extension of a completion deadline, (2) an RTD-directed change
to the extent that it necessitates rearrangement of Contractors Work plan, (3) a
critical path delay caused by another RTD contractor, or (4) a critical path delay
related to an unknown environmental condition or differing site condition.
b. When determining the number of days extending a completion deadline, the
parties should meet and attempt to restructure Work and schedules to minimize
the time extension required due to the delay or change. This would include the
re-sequencing, reallocating or redeploying its forces to other portions of the
Work. The Contractor cannot seek compensation for construction labor and nonconstruction labor forces as defined in the Section entitled Pricing Of Change
Orders as a result of the event causing the delay.
c. The cost of the delay damages will be calculated on a per-day basis. Therefore,
the Parties must agree upon the number of days the completion deadline must
be extended due to the delay. Days in this Section mean work days; weekend
days and holidays are not counted for delay damages unless actually worked.
d. The delay costs shall only be for the extended overhead costs incurred by the
Contractor. If the basis for the delay involves additional work, the direct costs
(labor, materials, supplies, rentals, etc. to do the work) and profit on the work
will be included in the Change Order or amendment that pays for the additional
work. The Contractor will not be entitled to profit on the delay costs as the delay
Change Order only compensates the Contractor for its per-day costs associated
with the delay.
e. If the delay is associated with additional Scope of Work, a time extension can be
agreed upon, daily delay costs calculated for the time period involved and the
amount included in the Change Order that pays for the additional Scope of Work.
f.

If the parties agree in writing and indicate in contemporaneous writings what
delay Claims are included, the parties can calculate a sum total of delay damages
caused by a number of events that affected the critical path. The costs for each
delay event must be calculated on a per-day basis as indicated above. That

88

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

summary can be formalized in a Change Order at any stage of the Work, even at
the Final Acceptance date, if the parties so agree; however, the Contractor
cannot make the assumption that its inability to meet either or both the
Substantial Completion Deadline or the Final Acceptance deadline was due to the
delay events. The Contractor must establish the claimed time extension for each
alleged delay event.
g. Instead of extending the completion deadline, the parties can agree to
acceleration costs compensable hereunder only with respect to Change Orders
issued by RTD as an alternative to allowing an extension of a completion
deadline. If the parties agree to acceleration, the acceleration cost will be
incorporated into a Change Order calculated using the procedures established in
this Article but based upon actual acceleration costs and not on theories of
productivity, including theories of lost productivity on non-critical path delays.
5. To obtain a Change Order for acceleration costs or other damages relating to delay,
the Contractor shall have demonstrated to RTDs satisfaction that:
a. its Project schedule, which defines the affected critical path, in fact set forth a
reasonable method for completion of the Work;
b. the change in the Work or other event or situation which is the subject of the
request for CO has caused or will result in an identifiable and measurable
disruption (in days) of the Work that impacted the critical path activity (i.e.,
consumed all available float and extended the Work required for milestone
completion beyond the completion deadline(s));
c. the delay or damage was not due to any breach of contract, fault, negligence,
act or failure to act of Contractor, its employees, agents, officers or
subcontractors or any other persons for whom the Contractor may be
contractually or legally responsible, and could not reasonably have been avoided
by Contractor, including by re-sequencing, reallocating or redeploying its forces
to other portions of the Work or other activities unrelated to the Work (subject to
reimbursement for additional costs reasonably incurred in connection with such
reallocation or redeployment);
d. the delay for which compensation is sought is not concurrent with any delay for
which the Contractor is responsible;
e. the delay for which compensation is sought is not offset by a delay caused by
the Contractor at a different time (often referred to as consecutive delays);
f.

the Contractor has suffered or will suffer actual costs due to such delay, each of
which costs shall be documented and calculated as indicated above; and

89

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

g. the Contractor has timely filed the required NCOP (or Written Notice of Claim),
the CS, and the COP.
If the Contractor has failed to meet a scheduled milestone unrelated to a delay
caused by RTD, and RTD has not assessed liquidated damages for that failure,
then RTD is entitled to an offset (in terms of days) for any delay to the critical
path that RTD has caused the Contractor.
A delay Claim alleged by the Contractor can be stayed for a period of three
months if RTD can make a good faith allegation that the Contractor is or will
cause a delay during that period.
6. Any extension of a completion deadline allowed under this Contract shall exclude any
delay damages to the extent that it:
a. did not impact the critical path;
b. was due to the fault, negligence, act or failure to act of the Contractor, its
employees, agents, officers or subcontractors or any other persons for whom the
Contractor may be contractually or legally responsible; or
c. could reasonably have been avoided by the Contractor by re-sequencing,
reallocating or redeploying its forces to other portions of the Work.
7. The Contractor shall be required to demonstrate to RTDs satisfaction that the
change in the Work or other event or situation that is the subject of the request for
CO seeking a change in a completion deadline has caused or will result in an
identifiable and measurable disruption of the Work. It will also have to demonstrate
that the delay has impacted the critical path activity (i.e., consumed all available
float and extended the Work required for milestone completion beyond the
applicable completion deadline(s)). It will also have to demonstrate that the delay
cannot be mitigated by re-sequencing, reallocating or redeploying its forces to other
portions of the Work or other activities unrelated to the Work that was delayed.
H. TIME IMPACT ANALYSIS FOR CHANGE ORDERS, DELAYS, AND CONTRACTOR
REQUESTS:
1. Changes, Delays, and Revisions
When changes are initiated, delays are experienced, or the Contractor desires to
revise the Baseline Schedule, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer
or the PM a written time impact analysis illustrating the influence of each change or
delay on any milestone. Each time impact analysis shall include a fragmentary
network (network analysis) demonstrating how the Contractor proposes to
incorporate the change, delay or Contractor request into the Baseline Schedule. The
time impact analysis shall demonstrate the time impact to each and every affected
activity in the Baseline Schedule utilizing the most recent schedule update as the

90

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

basis for the analysis. The date of the most recent schedule update shall be a date
prior to the date the change is given to the Contractor, the date the delay occurred
or the date the Contractor submits a request for a change. The event times used in
the time impact analysis shall include the most recent schedule update or as
adjusted by mutual agreement. The time impact analysis shall contain the detail of
the change, including but not limited to added, changed or deleted data for activities
and logic restraints. If the Baseline Schedule is revised subsequent to submittal of a
time impact analysis but prior to its approval, the Contractor shall promptly indicate
in writing to the Contracting Officer or the PM the need for any modification to its
time impact analysis.
2. Activity Delays
Activity delays shall not automatically mean that an extension of any milestone is
warranted or adjustments are due to the Contractor. A change or delay may not
affect existing critical activities or cause non-critical activities to become critical. A
change or delay may result in only absorbing a part of the available total float that
may exist within an activity chain of the network, thereby not causing any effect on
any milestone. Such activity delays may cause the Contractor to experience an
inefficiency in its progress but does not entitle it to a CO.
3. Milestone Extensions
Milestone extensions will be permitted only to the extent that equitable time
adjustments to the activity or activities affected by the change or delay exceeds the
total (positive or zero) float of a critical activity (or path) and extends the affected
milestone(s). In the case of multiple lines of negative float, the change or delay
must cause the affected path to exceed all others before a milestone extension will
be granted.
4. Time Impact Submittals
A comprehensive narrative of each time impact analysis shall be submitted within
seven Days after the commencement of a delay, the notice (CN) for a change is
given to the Contractor, or the Contractor has submitted a NCOP (or a Written
Notice of Claim).
5. Non-Submission Remedy
In cases where the Contractor does not submit a time impact analysis to justify the
delay Claim within seven Days of the occurrence of the event which caused the
delay, it is mutually agreed that the particular change, delay or Contractor request
does not require an extension of time to a milestone and the Contractor waives its
rights to subsequently request a time extension or a CO.
I. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES: Time is of the essence in completing the Work. In the event
of delay in the completion of the Work as specified beyond the dates in the Contract,

91

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

time is of the essence in any and all listed milestones, the Substantial Completion date,
and the Final Acceptance date. It would be difficult to determine the exact amount of
the loss or damages suffered by RTD due to delays in completion of the Contract.
Therefore, for every Day of delay past the scheduled milestone and completion date of
the Contract (including the due dates for any RTD-requested CS or COP), the Contractor
will be liable to RTD, as liquidated damages and not as penalty, in the amount of
$3,000.00.
This Section will not apply to delays in completion of the Work due to acts of God, acts
of war, acts of the government (in either its sovereign or contractual capacity), fires,
floods, strikes, and unusually severe weather, provided that the Contractor shall, within
three Days of the onset of any such delay, notify the Contracting Officer in writing of the
causes of delay and the related facts.
The use of liquidated damages is limited to damages suffered by RTD due to its daily
overhead costs and loss of use of the Project. Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted
as limiting in any way RTDs right to proceed against the Contractor for other actual
damages. Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted as limiting in any way RTDs right to
proceed against the Contractor for additional damages, other than delay damages.
RTD reserves the right to deduct the liquidated damages from any amount due the
Contractor under this Contract, or, at its option, to collect such liquidated damages
directly from the Contractor or its surety. If the Contractor disputes RTDs damages or
the determination that it failed to meet Contract milestones or complete the Work on
time, the Contractor must file a NCOP or Written Notice of Claim within seven Days after
the assessment of damages from a payment, and the parties will proceed as required
under this Article. RTD will withhold the disputed amount from the final payment and
put it aside until the matter is resolved.
The right to assert liquidated damages occurs once a milestone or completion date is
missed and does not require RTD to file any sort of Written Notice of Claim or NCOP.
The Contracting Officer or the PM shall consider the facts, ascertain the extent of the
delay, and extend in writing the time for completing the Work when, in his/her
judgment, the facts justify such an extension.
The Contractor, by accepting this Contract, warrants that it has the necessary material,
equipment, finances and personnel to achieve its scheduled completion; shortages of
labor, material or equipment are no excuse to avoid damages (liquidated damages or
actual damages). Delays due to shortages in labor, material and equipment will entitle

92

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

RTD, at its sole discretion, to assess the actual damages sustained rather than assess
liquidated damages.
J. DUTY TO MITIGATE: Both parties are under a duty to mitigate damages. Should an
incident occur or a circumstance arise that does or could result in a Claim for damages
or a time extension, each party has an affirmative duty to take steps to limit the extent
of damages as much as possible. Failure to mitigate damages will result in disallowing
those damages that could have been avoided had the Claimant taken the appropriate
steps. This applies to all Claims including delay Claims and Claims for differing site
conditions.

11.8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
A. TAXES:
1. TAX EXEMPTION: RTD is a political subdivision of the State of Colorado and is
exempt from federal excise tax under 26 U.S.C.A.  4221-4222 (2002). RTD is
exempt from Colorado state sales and state-collected sales taxes (Colorado State:
98-00688). RTD is not exempt from any local sales and use tax levied by a home
rule city unless that municipality specifically exempts political subdivisions from
payment of such sales and use taxes.
All local sales and use taxes which are due are to be paid by the Contractor and
should be included in the Bid price or Proposal price. It is up to the Contractor to
determine which sales and use taxes need to be paid. A separate reimbursement
from RTD for taxes paid by the Contractor will not be allowed. Compensation for the
taxes paid by the Contractor should be included when RTD pays for materials and/or
services as part of the normal billing process.
2. TAX ACCOUNTING: The Contractor shall maintain records of all sales and use taxes
paid under this Contract and shall provide all related information to the Contracting
Officer.
B. PUBLICITY AND ADVERTISING: The Contractor shall obtain RTDs prior written
approval before any information relating to the Work is released to anyone other than
employees of the Contractor, material suppliers, and the subcontractors who require the
information for the performance of their duties. No reference to RTD or the Work
contemplated by the Contract Documents nor any advertising done by or for the
Contractor with respect to the Work shall be made without prior written permission of
RTD.
C. FINDINGS CONFIDENTIAL: The Contractor shall not make available any reports,
information, data, etc., available to or prepared or assembled by the Contractor under
this Contract, without the prior written consent of RTD.

93

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

D. OTHER CONTRACTS: RTD may undertake or award other contracts for additional work
at or near the site of the Work under this Contract. The Contractor shall fully cooperate
with the other contractors, utility companies and with RTD employees, and shall
carefully adapt scheduling and performing the Work under this Contract to
accommodate the additional Work, heeding any direction that may be provided by the
Contracting Officer or the PM. The Contractor shall not commit or permit any act that
will interfere with the performance of Work by any other contractor, utility company or
by RTD employees.
E. RELATIONSHIP OF RTD: Nothing contained in the Contract Documents or the bonds
required under this Contract shall create any contractual, third-party beneficiary, or
trustee relationship between RTD and any tier subcontractor, supplier, material man,
laborer, or any other person whatsoever.
F. NOTICES  TIME REQUIREMENTS: Notices and all other documents that need to be
timely filed as required in this Contract shall be deemed filed or served when placed in
the U.S. Mail, if sent by certified mail, or by special messenger, return receipt requested.
Otherwise, notices are not filed or served until received by the party to whom they are
sent. In computing time under this Contract, the Day of the event from which the time
period begins to run shall not be included. The last Day of the time period shall be
included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday in Colorado, in which event the
period runs until the end of the next Day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday in Colorado. When the time period is less than seven Days, Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays in Colorado shall be excluded in the computation.
G. VALUE ENGINEERING: The following is applicable to contracts of $1 million and more
unless otherwise indicated.
1. GENERAL: The Contractor is encouraged to develop, prepare, and submit value
engineering change proposals (VECPs) voluntarily. The Contractor shall share in any
Instant Contract Savings realized from accepted VECPs, in accordance with this
Article.
2. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN THIS ARTICLE:
a. "Collateral Costs" means RTD costs of operation, maintenance, logistic support,
or RTD-furnished property.
b. "Collateral Savings" means those measurable net reductions resulting from a
VECP in RTDs overall projected Collateral Costs, exclusive of acquisition savings,
whether or not the acquisition cost changes.
c. "Contractors Development and Implementation Costs" means those costs the
Contractor incurs on a VECP specifically in developing, testing, preparing, and

94

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

submitting the VECP, as well as those costs the Contractor incurs to make the
contractual changes required by RTD acceptance of a VECP.
d. "RTD Costs" means those costs that result directly from developing and
implementing the VECP, such as any net increases in the cost of design review,
testing, operations, maintenance, and logistic support. The term does not include
the normal administrative costs of processing the VECP.
e. "Instant Contract Savings" means the estimated reduction in Contractor cost of
performance resulting from acceptance of the VECP, minus allowable
Contractors Development and Implementation Costs, including subcontractors
development and implementation costs.
f.

Value engineering change proposal (VECP) means a proposal that:
i.

Requires a change to the Contract to implement; and

ii. Results in reducing the Contract Cost or estimated cost without impairing
essential functions or characteristics, provided that it does not involve a
change in deliverable end item quantities only.
3. VECP PREPARATION: At a minimum, the Contractor shall include in each VECP the
information described in subsections (a) through (f) below. If the proposed change
is affected by contractually required configuration management or similar
procedures, the instructions in those procedures relating to format, identification,
and priority assignment shall govern VECP preparation. The VECP shall include the
following:
a. A description of the difference between the existing Contract requirement and
the requirement proposed, the comparative advantages and disadvantages of
each, a justification when an items function or characteristics are being altered,
and the effect of the change on the end items performance.
b. A list and analysis of the Contract requirements that must be changed if the
VECP is accepted, including any suggested Technical Specifications revisions.
c. A separate detailed cost estimate for (i) the affected portions of the existing
Contract requirement and (ii) the VECP. The cost reduction associated with the
VECP shall take into account the allowable Contractors Development and
Implementation Costs, including any amount attributable to subcontracts under
this Article.
d. A description and estimate of the costs RTD may incur in implementing the
VECP, such as test and evaluation and operating and support costs.

95

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

e. A prediction of any effects the proposed change would have on Collateral Costs
to RTD.
f.

A statement of the time by which a Contract modification accepting the VECP
must be issued in order to achieve the maximum cost reduction, noting any
effect on the Contract Schedule.

4. SUBMISSION: The Contractor shall submit VECPs in writing to the Engineer or PM at
the Work site, with a copy to the Contracting Officer.
5. RTD ACTION:
a. The Contracting Officer or the PM shall notify the Contractor of the status of the
VECP within 45 Days after receipt. If additional time is required, the Contracting
Officer shall notify the Contractor within the 45-Day period and provide the
reason for the delay and the expected date of the decision. RTD will process
VECPs expeditiously; however, it shall not be liable for any delay in acting on a
VECP.
b. If the VECP is not accepted, the Contracting Officer or PM shall notify the
Contractor in writing explaining the reasons for rejection. The Contractor may
withdraw any VECP, in whole or in part, at any time before it is accepted by RTD.
The Contracting Officer may require that the Contractor provide written
notification before undertaking significant expenditures for VECP effort.
c. Any VECP may be accepted, in whole or in part, by the Contracting Officers or
PMs modification to this Contract citing this clause. The Contracting Officer may
accept the VECP, even though an agreement on price reduction has not been
reached, by issuing the Contractor a Change Order with the change. Until a
Contract modification applies a VECP to this Contract, the Contractor shall
perform in accordance with the existing Contract. The Contracting Officers or
PMs decision to accept or reject all or part of any VECP shall be final and not
subject to an equitable adjustment or a Claim under the Article entitled
Changes, Claims, And Dispute Resolution herein.
6. SHARING:
a. Rates. RTDs share of savings is determined by subtracting RTD Costs from
Instant Contract Savings and multiplying the result by 45 percent for fixed price
contracts.
b. Payment. Payment of any share due the Contractor for use of a VECP on this
Contract shall be authorized by a modification to this Contract to:
i.

Accept the VECP;

96

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

ii. Reduce the Contract Cost or estimated cost by the amount of Instant
Contract Savings; and
iii. Provide the Contractors share of savings by adding the amount calculated to
the Contract Cost.
7. COLLATERAL SAVINGS: If a VECP is accepted, the Contract Cost shall be increased
by 20 percent of any projected Collateral Savings determined to be realized in a
typical year of use after subtracting any RTD Costs not previously offset. However,
the Contractors share of Collateral Savings shall not exceed (1) the Contracts firmfixed-price at the time the VECP is accepted, or (2) $100,000, whichever is greater.
The Contracting Officer or the PM shall be the sole determiner of the amount of
Collateral Savings, and that amount shall not be subject to the Disputes Section or
otherwise subject to litigation under 41 U.S.C. 601-613.
8. SUBCONTRACTS: The Contractor shall include an appropriate value engineering
clause in any subcontract of $50,000 or more and may include one in subcontracts
of lesser value. In computing any adjustment in the Contract Cost under this Article,
the allowable Contractors Development and Implementation Costs shall include any
subcontractors allowable development and implementation costs clearly resulting
from a VECP accepted by RTD under this Contract, but shall exclude any value
engineering incentive payments to a subcontractor. The Contractor may choose any
arrangement for subcontractor value engineering incentive payments, provided that
these payments shall not reduce RTDs share of the savings resulting from the VECP.
9. DATA: The Contractor may restrict RTDs right to use any part of a VECP or the
supporting data by marking the following legend on the affected parts:

The data, furnished under the Value Engineering clause of the Contract, shall not
be disclosed outside RTD or duplicated, used, or disclosed in whole or in part, for
any purpose other than to evaluate a value engineering change proposal submitted
under the clause. This restriction does not limit RTDs right to use information
contained in these data if it has been obtained or is otherwise available from the
Contractor or from another source without limitations.
If a VECP is accepted, the Contractor grants RTD unlimited rights in the VECP and
supporting data, except that, with respect to data qualifying and submitted as
limited rights technical data, RTD shall have the rights specified in the Contract
modification implementing the VECP and shall appropriately mark the data.
H. AUDIT AND RECORDS: The Contractor shall maintain all data and records pertinent to
the Work performed under this Contract, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and shall preserve and make available all data and records until
the expiration of eight years from the date of final payment under this Contract, or for
such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable statute or by other articles of this

97

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Contract. The authorized representatives of the State of Colorado and the District shall
have access to all such data and records for such time period to inspect, audit and make
copies of the data and records during normal business hours. Contractor covenants and
agrees that it shall require that any subcontractor utilized in the performance of this
Contract shall permit the authorized representatives of the State of Colorado and the
District to similarly inspect and audit all data and records of the subcontractors relating
to the performance of the subcontractors under this Contract for the same time period.
The federal government shall also have access rights under Federal Transit
Administration (FTA)-funded contracts.
I. AUDIT:
1. Cost or Pricing Data: If the Contractor has submitted cost or pricing data in
connection with the pricing of any modification to this Contract, unless the pricing
was based on adequate price competition, established catalog or market prices by
law or regulation, the Contracting Officer or a representative who is an employee of
RTD shall have the right to examine and audit all books, records, documents, and
other data of the Contractor (including computations and projections) related to
negotiating, pricing or performing the modification, in order to evaluate the
accuracy, completeness, and currency of the cost and pricing data. In the case of
pricing any modification, the authorized representative of the State of Colorado and
federal government (under FTA-funded contracts) shall have the same rights.
2. Availability: The Contractor shall make available at its office at all reasonable times
the materials described in the Section entitled Audit And Records for examination,
audit, reproduction, until eight years after final payment under this Contract, or for
any other period, if any, as is required by applicable statute or by other articles in
this Contract.
a. If this Contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
Work terminated shall be made available for three years after any resulting final
termination settlement.
b. Records pertaining to appeals under the Section entitled Dispute Resolution or
to litigation or settlement of claims arising under or relating to the performance
of this Contract shall be made available until disposition of such appeals,
litigation, or claims.
3. The Contractor shall insert a clause containing all the provisions of this clause,
including this subsection, in all subcontracts of more than $100,000 under this
Contract, altering the clause only as necessary to identify properly the contracting
parties.

98

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

J. PROJECT SIGN: The Contractor shall furnish, install, and maintain at each major
entrance a Project sign for maximum public identification of the Work. No more than
two Project signs will be erected at any site.
Each sign is to be made of exterior-grade plywood, 4 X 8 or 2 X 4 (at the discretion of
the Engineer),  cut to shape as shown on the drawing. The sign shall contain all
information shown on the drawing in the colors specified. The sign is to be supported by
two nominal 4 X 4 wood posts, to be installed as shown on the drawing.
The RTD Engineer or PM will determine the location of the sign on the site and, upon
completion of the Work, the Contractor will remove the sign from the site.
K. AUTHORITY: The authority of an employee or independent contractor to act on the
behalf of the Contractor in the capacity of a Superintendent, Project Manager, Quality
Control Officer or Safety Officer for the Contractor must be confirmed in writing and
signed by an owner/officer of the Contractor. Employees or independent contractors
cannot act in those capacities without the written authority from the Contractor.
L. SEVERABILITY OF CONTRACT CLAUSES: If, for any reason, any Article or any
portion, Section or clause of any Article in this Contract is deemed to be void, unlawful
or invalid, that Article portion, Section or clause is considered severable and severed
from the Contract and does not make the Contract, or any other Article, portion, Section
or clause of the Contract, void, unlawful or invalid. The parties will proceed under the
Contract without any reference or utilization of the void, unlawful, or invalid Article,
portion, Section or clause of the Contract.
M. IDENTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES: The Contractor shall be responsible for requiring
each employee engaged on the Work to display identification furnished by RTD. The
Contractor will request RTD in writing to furnish the total number of identification
badges required for its employees and will return all identification to RTD upon
completion of the Work. Lost identification badges will be cause for an assessment of
$25.00 each. This amount may be deducted from RTD payments. Final payment will not
be made until identification badges are returned to RTD upon completion of the Work.
N. ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES: This Contract may be executed by electronic signature,
which shall be considered as an original signature for all purposes and shall have the
same force and effect as an original signature. Without limitation, electronic signature
shall include faxed versions of an original signature, electronically scanned and
transmitted versions of an original signature, and digital signatures.

99

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

12. CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS AND ACCESS
BADGES
(CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS AND ACCESS BADGES TERMS AND CONDITIONS)

12.1. TERMS AND CONDITIONS
For each individual performing any portion of the Work, which portion of the Work requires the
individual to have (i) direct access to RTDs critical information systems or confidential
information, (ii) unaccompanied access to RTD secured facilities, or (iii) access to money or
stored value cards, Contractor shall ensure that the individual (a) passes a criminal background
check and (b) obtains an RTD access badge, each in accordance with the standards set forth in
this Article. Contractor also shall ensure that the requirements in this Article are included in any
subcontracts.
A. Criminal Background Check. Contractor shall ensure that all criminal background checks
required by this Article are completed. In order to pass a criminal background check, the
individuals report shall not include any Disqualifying Offense, defined below. RTD
believes all of the Disqualifying Offenses are job-related and consistent with business
necessity for any individual performing any portion of the Work. If, after an individual
review of (1) the nature and gravity of the offense, (2) the time that has passed since
the offense and/or completion of the sentence, and (3) the nature of the job held or
sought, the Contractor concludes that it would like to employ an individual to perform
any portion of the Work in conflict with these standards, the Contractor shall so notify
RTD in writing of the rationale for this conclusion at least three business days prior to
scheduling the individual to obtain an RTD access badge or begin the Work.
The criminal background check shall, at a minimum, cover the previous seven years, and
include the criminal record in the Colorado Bureau of Investigation database and shall
be conducted by a licensed firm in accordance with applicable laws. Contractor shall
maintain all records demonstrating the criminal background check results as confidential
and, upon three business days notice, shall make such records available to the RTD
Project Manager at any time during the Contract term.
Disqualifying Offense is any conviction in any jurisdiction of any of the following
criminal offenses.
1. Permanently Disqualifying Criminal Offenses


Espionage, Sedition, Treason;



A federal crime of terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g);

100

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)



A crime involving a transportation security incident (A transportation security
incident is a security incident resulting in a significant loss of life, environmental
damage, transportation system disruption, or economic disruption in a particular
area, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 70101. The term economic disruption does not
include a work stoppage or other employee-related action not related to
terrorism and resulting from an employer-employee dispute.);



Improper transportation of a hazardous material under 49 U.S.C. 5124 or a
comparable state law;



Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, manufacture, purchase, receipt,
transfer, shipping, transporting, import, export, storage of, or dealing in an
explosive or explosive device;



Murder in the first or second degree and manslaughter;



Assault with intent to murder;



Kidnapping in the first or second degree or hostage-taking;



Rape or aggravated sexual abuse;



Endangering Public Transportation, C.R.S. 18-9-115;



Violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C.
1961, et seq. (RICO), or a comparable state law, where one of the predicate
acts found by a jury or admitted by the defendant is one of the crimes listed
above.

2. Seven-Year Disqualification (seven years from the date of conviction)


Unlawful possession, use, sale, manufacture, purchase, distribution, receipt,
transfer, shipping, transporting, delivery, import, export of, or dealing in a
firearm or other weapon;



Extortion;



Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation, including identity fraud (welfare fraud
and passing bad checks do not constitute dishonesty, fraud or misrepresentation
for purposes of this paragraph);



Bribery;



Smuggling;



Immigration violations;

101

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)



Violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. 
1961, et seq. (RICO), or a comparable state law, other than the violations of
RICO listed above;



Robbery;



Distribution of, possession with intent to distribute, or importation of a controlled
substance;



Arson;



Criminally negligent homicide and vehicular homicide;



Assault in the first or second degree;



False imprisonment;



Enticement of a child or Internet luring of a child;



Sexual assault, unlawful sexual contact, or sexual assault on a child;



Burglary;



Any offenses involving bribery or corrupt influences as a public servant.



Violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, 18 USC  1030 or Colo. Rev.
Stat.  18-5.5-101  102.

3. Five-Year Disqualification (five years from the date of conviction)


Reckless driving;



Third-degree assault;



Any driving offense involving the use of alcohol or drugs;



Any violent crimes not listed above including but not limited to cruelty to
animals;



Any crimes involving theft, fraud or extortion not listed above;



Any crimes involving sexual misconduct not listed above;



Any crimes not listed above that are aggravated or involving domestic violence or
exploiting minors;



Any crimes involving firearms or weapons not listed above;



Theft of public transportation services, C.R.S.  18-4-802;



Hindering transportation, C.R.S.  18-9-114;



Endangering public transportation, C.R.S.  18-9-115 (misdemeanor conviction);

102

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)



Throwing missiles at vehicles, C.R.S.  18-9-116;



Any crimes involving alcohol or drugs not listed above.

B. RTD Access Badge. Contractor shall submit to the RTD Project Manager all requests for
badges required by RTDs Access Control procedures (Access Badge). Such requests
shall include a certification that the individual has passed a criminal background check in
accordance with this Article. Each individual performing Work must wear an Access
Badge when present at any RTD secured facility. Contractor shall ensure that all Access
Badges issued pursuant to the Contract are returned at the end of the Contract term.
Contractor shall pay a replacement fee for any Access Badge that needs to be replaced.

103

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

13. INSURANCE & BOND REQUIREMENTS
13.1. General
All defined terms contained in this Section shall have the same meaning ascribed to them in the
Contract.
The Contractor shall procure and maintain, and shall require that its subcontractors purchase
and continuously maintain, in full force and effect for the Contract period specified herein, all
insurance policies specified in this Section. The Contractor shall forward updated certificates of
insurance and endorsement(s) when policies are renewed or changed.
The insurance required hereunder shall not be interpreted to relieve the Contractor of any
obligations under the Contract, and liability of the Contractor under this Section shall not be
limited to coverage provided under said insurance policies. The Contractor and its
subcontractors shall remain solely and fully liable for all deductibles, self-insured retentions, and
amounts in excess of the coverage actually realized.

13.2. Commercial General Liability Insurance
At all times during performance of the Contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors shall
have and maintain Commercial General Liability Insurance insuring against claims for bodily
injury, property damage, personal injury and advertising injury. By its terms or appropriate
endorsements such insurance shall include the following coverage: Bodily Injury, Property
Damage, Fire Legal Liability, Personal Injury, Blanket Contractual Liability, Independent
Contractors, Premises Operations, and Products and Completed Operations Hazard for a
minimum of eight (8) years following final completion of the Project or the applicable statute of
limitations or statute of repose, whichever is greater. The policy cannot be endorsed to exclude
cause of loss related to earth movement, explosion, collapse and underground exposures
without the specific written approval of RTD, nor may the policy exclude or limit the
Contractorsor its subcontractors liability for acts or omissions of any independent contractor
or subcontractor, nor may the policy exclude work of any independent contractor or
subcontractor; nor contain any conditions regarding when coverage is available for acts,
omissions or work of a Contractor or subcontractor nor may the policy limit coverage to a
designated premises, nor may the policy exclude or limit coverage for liability arising from the
Products and Completed Operations Hazard.
The Commercial General Liability policy shall include the Limited Pollution Liability Extension,
ISO form CG2415 10 01.
If any construction work performed under this Contract is within fifty (50) feet of RTDs light
rail or commuter rail alignment, then the Contractor and its subcontractors shall have and
maintain ISO form CG 2417 1001  Contractual Liability  Railroads.

104

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

If Commercial General Liability Insurance or other form with general aggregate limit and
products and completed operations aggregate limit is used, then the aggregate limits shall
apply separately to the Project, or the Contractor and/or its subcontractors may obtain
separate insurance to provide the required limit which shall not be subject to depletion because
of claims arising out of any other project or activity of the Contractor and/or its
subcontractors. General aggregate limit applies per construction project.
The policy or policies shall have minimum limits of liability as follows:
A. Amount of Coverage:
o

$1,000,000 per occurrence

o

$2,000,000 aggregate

There shall be a separate minimum limit of liability for the Products and Competed Operations
Hazard not included within the general aggregate.
A. Amount of Coverage
o

$1,000,000 per occurrence

o

$2,000,000 aggregate

13.3. Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance
At all times during the performance of the Contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors
shall have and maintain Automobile Liability Insurance insuring against claims for bodily injury
and property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use of all owned/leased as
well as hired and non-owned vehicles. The Automobile Liability policies shall have minimum
limits of liability as follows:
A. Amount of Coverage:
o

$1,000,000 combined single limit

13.4. Workers Compensation and Employers Liability Insurance
At all times during the performance of the Contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors
shall have and maintain Workers Compensation Insurance sufficient to meet its statutory
obligations to provide benefits for their contractual and statutory employees with claims of
bodily injury or occupational disease (including resulting death).
The Contractor and its subcontractors shall each provide Employers Liability Insurance
covering their legal obligation to pay damages because of bodily injury or occupational disease
(including resulting death) sustained by their contractual and statutory employees with
minimum limits of liability as follows:
A. Amount of Coverage:

105

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

o

$1,000,000 bodily injury by accident

o

$1,000,000 bodily injury by disease

o

$1,000,000 policy limit

13.5. Umbrella/Excess Liability
At all times during the performance of the Contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors
shall have and maintain Umbrella and Excess Liability insurance on a following form basis with
minimum limits of liability as follows for a minimum of eight (8) years following final completion
of the Project or the applicable statute of limitations or statute of repose, whichever is greater:
A. Amount of Coverage:
o

$5,000,000 per occurrence

o

$5,000,000 aggregate

This excess insurance shall follow form and be at least as broad as the Contractors and/or its
subcontractors primary Commercial General Liability (including additional insureds), Commercial
Auto Liability and Employers Liability insurance. The above insurance levels may be met
through any combination of primary insurance and excess liability/umbrella insurance so long as
the total amount meets the stated minimum requirements.

13.6. Contractors Pollution Liability
At all times during the performance of the Contract, the Contractor and its subcontractors
shall provide Contractors Pollution Liability Insurance including contractual liability and providing
third-party coverage for bodily injury, property damage, defense, and cleanup as a result of
pollution conditions (sudden/accidental and gradual) arising from contracting operations
performed.
A. Amount of Coverage:
o

$5,000,000 per occurrence

o

$5,000,000 aggregate

13.7. Endorsements, Waivers and Related Requirements
Prior to entry upon, above or adjacent to RTD property, the Contractor shall furnish RTD with
proof of insurance and a certificate of insurance for each of the Contractors and each of its
subcontractors policies. All insurance policies required hereunder shall contain or be endorsed
to contain the following provisions:
A. The Contractor and its subcontractors shall request their insurance policies contain
language requiring the insurer to provide RTD with 30 days advance notice of
cancellation of policies by Registered or Certified mail. Regardless, the Contractor and

106

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

its subcontractors shall be responsible to immediately notify RTD in writing by email of
any changes to, cancelations of or notices of an insurers intent to not renew its
insurance. Such notice shall be provided no later than 24 hours after the Contractor or
any of its subcontractors receives notice of any changes, cancellations or notice of an
insurers intent to not renew. Failure to provide the notice shall be breach of the
Contract and the Contract may be terminated. Any notice of changes, cancellation or
intent to not renew shall be provided to the designated RTD Department or Division as
provided herein. Such notice requirement does not waive the insurance requirements
contained herein.
B. For the insurance specified herein, RTD and its members, directors, officers, employees
and agents shall be named as an additional insured (except Workers Compensation).
Coverage shall be provided by Forms CG 2038 (ongoing operations) and CG 2040
(completed operations) or by an alternative endorsement approved by RTD.
C. For the insurance specified herein, the Contractors and its subcontractors insurance
shall be primary and non-contributory insurance with respect to the Contractors and
its subcontractors insurance for RTD and its members, directors, officers, employees
and agents. Contractor and subcontractor policy/policies shall contain ISO Form 2001
04 13, or such other form or endorsement approved by RTD.
D. The insurance specified herein shall contain an express waiver of subrogation in favor of
RTD as by ISO form CG 2453 or CG 2404. The Contractor and its subcontractors and
their agents and employees waive all rights of subrogation against RTD for any liability
and workers compensation claims they incur in relation to the Contract and agree to
have all such policies appropriately endorsed with a Waiver of Subrogation
endorsement.
E. The insurance shall apply separately to each insured and additional insured party against
whom a claim is made or suit is brought, except with respect to the limits of the
insurers liability.
F. The amount of insurance must be at least equal to the limits of liability required herein.

13.8. Acceptable Insurance Company
The insurance company providing any of the insurance coverage required herein shall have at a
minimum an AM Best Key Rating of A, with a Financial Strength of VII or higher, (i.e., A VII, A
VIII, A IX, A X, etc.) or equivalent from similar rating agency and shall be subject to prior
approval by RTD. Each insurance companys rating as shown in the latest AM Best Key Rating
Guide shall be fully disclosed and entered on the required certificate of insurance.

107

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

13.9. Premiums, Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
The Contractor and its subcontractors shall be responsible for payment of premiums for all of
the insurance coverages required hereunder. The Contractor and its subcontractors further
agree that for each claim, suit or action made against insurance provided hereunder, with
respect to all matters for which the Contractor and its subcontractors are responsible
hereunder, the Contractor and its subcontractors shall be solely responsible for all deductibles
and self-insured retentions. Any deductibles or self-insured retentions over $25,000 in the
Contractors and its subcontractors insurance must be declared and approved in writing by
RTD prior to entry upon, above or adjacent to RTD property and prior to commencement of any
work under the Contract.

13.10. Certificate of Insurance
The Contractor will deliver to the designated RTD Department or Division a certificate of
insurance with respect to each required policy to be provided by the Contractor and its
subcontractors. The required certificates must be signed by the authorized broker or agent
representative of the insurance company shown on the certificate and authorized to bind the
named underwriter(s) and their company to the coverage, limits and termination provisions
shown thereon. All endorsements, waivers, and related requirements described above shall be
attached to the certificates of insurance when submitted to RTD. A certified, true and exact
copy of each insurance policy (including renewal policies) required under this Contract shall be
provided to RTD if so requested within three (3) days.

13.11. Maintenance of Coverage and Renewal Policies
No less than 21 calendar days prior to the expiration date of any policy to be provided by the
Contractor and its subcontractors, the Contractor shall promptly deliver to RTD proof of
insurance required by the terms specified herein for at least the next twelve months after the
expiration date of any policy. Such insurance may be either a renewal policy or a new policy or
policies.

13.12. No Recourse
There shall be no recourse by any party, insurer, the Contractor or its subcontractors against
RTD for the payment of premiums, deductibles, self-insured retentions or other amounts with
respect to the insurance required from the Contractor or its subcontractors.

13.13. Failure to Provide or Maintain Insurance Coverages
The Contractors failure to have or maintain, or failure to require its subcontractors to have or
maintain, any of the insurance coverage required herein shall constitute a breach of the
Contract. In addition to the remedies that RTD may have under the insurance specified herein,
RTD may take whatever action is necessary to maintain the current policies in effect (including
the payment of any premiums that may be due and owing by the Contractor or its
subcontractors) or RTD may procure substitute insurance. The Contractor is responsible for

108

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

any costs incurred by RTD in maintaining the insurance coverage required by the terms
specified herein or providing substitute insurance. Such costs may be charged to the
Contractor or may be deducted from any sums due and owing to the Contractor.

13.14. BOND REQUIREMENTS
CONTRACT SECURITY (PERFORMANCE BOND):
The Contractor shall post with RTD, not later than ten calendar days after Notice of Award, a
performance bond, naming RTD as sole beneficiary, of Fifty Percent (50%) of the Contract
Cost in such form and with such sureties or guarantors as are satisfactory to RTD (e.g.,
American Institute of Architects (AIA) Forms A-311 (1970) or A-312 (1984)). This bond shall be
executed to secure fulfillment of all the Contractors obligations under the Contract. The
Contractor shall notify its sureties of any Contract changes.
PAYMENT BOND:
The Contractor shall post with RTD, not later than ten calendar days after Notice of Award, a
payment bond, naming RTD as sole beneficiary, of Fifty Percent (50%) of the Contract
Cost in such form and with such sureties or guarantors as are satisfactory to RTD (e.g.,
American Institute of Architects (AIA) Forms A-311 (1970) or A-312 (1984)). This bond shall be
executed to assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and material in
the execution of the Work under the Contract. The Contractor shall notify its sureties of any
Contract changes.

109

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

14. SPECIAL PROVISIONS/ALTERATIONS SPECIAL
TERMS
The following provisions from the Section entitled, General Terms and Conditions, have been
specifically negotiated for this Contract and these provisions, as added or altered, shall
supersede to the extent that they conflict with corresponding provisions contained in the
Section entitled, General Terms and Conditions and any other conflicting specification required
by the Contract Documents.

14.1. The following Articles are hereby modified as set forth below:
None.

14.2. The following Articles are hereby added:
None.

14.3. DELETED ARTICLES
The following provisions have been deleted in their entirety from the Section entitled, General
Terms and Conditions:
None.

110

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

15. SBE CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
The following Article(s) are hereby added:
Contractor shall comply with and insert the requirements of this Article into each Subcontract
regardless of the tier:

15.1. SBE Flow-Down Provisions
While no subcontractor will be considered a third party beneficiary to the Contract between RTD
and the prime Contractor, RTD considers all subcontractors of every tier to be agents of the
Contractor. Therefore, every contractor of every tier will be held to all the requirements of the
Contract. With that understanding, the Contractor shall conform all subcontracts to the terms
and conditions found in the RTD Contract and make the RTD Contract available to all
subcontractors for review. The Contractor must include the following provisions in their
subcontract agreements with their SBE subcontractors as well as ensure that all tieredsubcontractors comply with this Section and insert the "Civil Rights" or "Non-discrimination"
provisions, as applicable, and the SBE Contract Requirements titled Prompt Payment, Joint
Check Utilization, SBE Removal/Termination/Substitution/Reduction of Scope, and Changes.
The contractor will be required to submit to the RTD Small Business Opportunity Office all SBE
subcontracts/purchase orders within 30 days of the execution of its contract with RTD or
issuance of the notice to proceed (whichever occurs first). Throughout any contract or after the
award of any RTD contract, including this Contract, if the Contractor makes good faith efforts
and engages or subcontracts with additional SBEs, the Contractor must get approval from RTD
if the Contractor intends to count SBE participation from those additional SBEs. To count SBE
participation toward the goal established for this Contract or commitments made by the
Contractor for SBE utilization, the RTD SBO must ensure that those additional SBEs are properly
certified as a SBEs with the RTD SBO under the appropriate NAICS code that coincides with the
scope of work that they will execute on the project/contract. Notwithstanding, RTD SBO shall
also request any appropriate documents it deems necessary including subcontract agreements
for review. The Contractor shall ensure that this information flows down to all tier contractors
that intends to subcontract or subcontracts with SBEs.

15.2. PROMPT PAYMENT OF SBE SUBCONTRACTORS
The Contractor agrees that:
A. It shall pay its SBE subcontractor(s) any undisputed amounts for the satisfactory
performance of their work within 30 days of the Contractors receipt of the
subcontractors invoice, regardless of whether RTD has paid the Contractor for such
invoice;

111

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

B. Its approval of SBE subcontractor invoices shall not be unreasonably delayed, and it
shall approve or reject them with written notice of deficiency or dispute to the payee
SBE subcontractor within ten days of the Contractors receipt of invoice;
C. Within 30 days after a SBE subcontractors work has been satisfactorily completed and
accepted by the Contractor or by RTDs Project Manager, whichever is earlier, the
Contractor shall make full payment to the subcontractor of any retainage the Contractor
has kept related to such work, unless a claim is filed against the subcontractor related to
such work. In the case of a dispute regarding satisfactory completion between a
Contractor and its subcontractor, within the first ten (10) days after work has been
completed, the Contractor must notify RTD in writing of the dispute; RTD, in its sole
discretion, shall review the dispute submitted and make a final determination with
respect to whether the work was satisfactorily completed.
D. Failure to comply with the above may give RTD just cause to impose one or more of the
following penalties, until the required payment(s) to the Contractors SBE
subcontractor(s) is satisfied, unless RTD has given prior written approval to the
Contractor for the delay or postponement of payment(s): (1) withhold payments to the
Contractor; (2) assess sanctions against the Contractor; (3) assess the SBE
subcontractors indirect or consequential damages against the Contractor; (4) disqualify
the Contractor from future bidding on RTD contracts as non-responsible; (5) enforce the
payment bond against the Contractor; (6) pay the SBE subcontractor(s) directly and
deduct this amount from any retainage owed to the Contractor; (7) provide notice of
default to the Contractor, stating the potential for termination or suspension of the
Contract, in whole or in part; (8) issue a stop-work order until the SBE subcontractor(s)
is paid, which order shall constitute an unauthorized delay under the Contract that could
result in liquidated damages against the Contractor. Unless approved by RTD, the
Contractors failure to comply with this Section is a material breach of the Contract;
E. It shall ensure that tiered subcontractors comply with this Section and that they insert
provisions (i), (ii), and (iii) of this Section into all lower-tiered subcontractor agreements
with SBE firms; and
F. On a monthly basis, it shall submit a report of its payments to its SBE subcontractors,
using Form E. The Contractor shall ensure that its SBE subcontractors at every tier
submit a monthly report of their receipt of payments from the Contractor, using Form E2. All report forms are attached to the Contract and shall be submitted to the RTD Small
Business Opportunity Office, 1660 Blake Street  BLK-31, Denver, Colorado 80202 or by
email to RTD SBOs designated compliance officer for this Contract.

15.3. JOINT CHECK UTILIZATION
A joint check is a two party check between a SBE, a prime contractor and a regular dealer of
materials/supplies. All joint check arrangements with SBE subs must be pre-approved by the

112

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

RTD SBO and must strictly adhere to the joint check requirements set forth in USDOT guidance
regarding same. At a minimum, the request must be initiated by the SBE to remedy a financial
hardship for a specific period of time. There are monthly reporting requirements that must be
complied with in order to receive SBE participation credit. The SBO will closely monitor the use
of joint checks to ensure that the independence of the SBE firm is not compromised. Joint check
usage will not be approved merely for the convenience of the prime contractor. Please note, if
Joint Checks are applicable, monthly reporting as defined by the RTD SBO will also be required.

15.4. SBE REMOVAL/TERMINATION/SUBSTITUTION/REDUCTION OF SCOPE
FROM CONTRACT
A Contractor must have good cause to remove/terminate/substitute/replace a SBE contractor
and such removal/termination/substitution requires the consent and approval of RTDs SBO.
This section also includes reductions to the SBEs scope of services and/or commitment values.
No SBE subcontract agreement may contain a termination for convenience clause/provision
because any termination for convenience provision/clause is contrary to the objectives of this
part and the objectives of the DBE Program requirements as defined under 49 CFR Part 26. To
initiate the termination, substitution, removal or replacement process with a SBE
contractor/supplier (regardless of the tier), the Contractor or lower tier contractor/subcontractor
must do the following:
A. Before transmitting to RTDs SBO its request to terminate and/or substitute a SBE
contractor, the contractor must give notice in writing to the SBE contractor and RTD
SBO. The notice must include its request to terminate and/or substitute, replace and/or
remove the SBE, the reason for the request and all documentation to support its claim.
The Contractor must submit a copy of the notice and support documentation to RTDs
SBO at the time the original letter is sent to the SBE contractor;
B. The Contractor must give the SBE contractor five (5) business days to respond to the
notice and provide the SBO with reasons, if any, why it objects to the proposed
termination of its SBE contract and why the SBO should not consent the Contractors
action;
C. RTDs SBO will then open a formal investigation inclusive of review of all documentation,
conduct interviews and site visits, if necessary. The Contractor carries the burden of
proof to demonstrate good cause for the termination and/or substitution;
D. If RTDs SBO determines the Contractor has good cause to terminate the SBE firm, the
SBO will provide written consent of SBE removal and the requirements to substitute
work to another SBE firm. If RTDs SBO finds that good cause does not exist to
terminate the SBE firm, the SBO will provide a written denial of the request to
terminate/replace the SBE contractor and will immediately request a corrective action
plan from the Contractor. Please note that if a contractor elects to terminate, substitute
and or reduce the scope of work initially committed to a SBE without the approval or

113

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

consent of the RTD SBO, this constitutes a material breach of a contract as set forth in
the DBE regulations as defined under 49 C.F.R. 26.13. This legal remedy may include
but is not limited to: withholding monthly progress payments, assessing sanctions,
liquidated damages, and/or disqualifying the contractor from future bidding as nonresponsible.
E. For purposes of good cause to remove, replace or terminate a SBE the following
circumstances should exist: (1) failure or refusal by the SBE subcontractor to execute a
written contract without good cause, (2) failure or refusal by the SBE subcontractor to
perform the work of its subcontract in a way consistent with normal industry practice
and the contractor has not acted in bad faith, (3) failure by the SBE subcontractor to
meet the contractors reasonable bonding or insurance requirements, (4) insolvency,
bankruptcy or credit unworthiness by the SBE subcontractor that creates a risk for the
contract, (5) ineligibility by the SBE subcontractor to work on public works project
because of suspension or debarment proceedings, (6) a determination by RTD that the
SBE is not a responsible contractor, (7) voluntary withdrawal from the project by written
notification that has been verified, (8) ineligibility to receive SBE participation credit for
the type of work to be performed, (9) other documented good cause that compels the
replacement of the SBE.
F. When a SBE subcontractor is terminated with the approval of RTD SBO, or fails to
complete its work on the contract for any reason, prime contractors are required to
make good faith efforts to find another SBE subcontractor to substitute for the original
SBE.
G. Prime contractors must show that it took all necessary and reasonable steps to find
another SBE to perform at least the same amount of work under the contract as the SBE
that was terminated, to the extent needed to meet the contract goal RTD SBO has
established for this project. The DBE regulations as defined under 49 CFR Part 26.53
shall serve as the criteria for evaluating compliance with the good faith efforts
requirements. Additionally, bidders/proposers are required to solicit the support and
assistance of RTDs SBO if they are unable to meet the SBE participation goal assigned
to this contract.
H. The good faith efforts shall be documented by the contractor. If RTD SBO requests
documentation under this provision, the contractor shall submit the documentation to
RTD SBO Compliance Officer within 7 days, which may be extended for an additional 7
days if necessary at the request of the contractor, and RTD SBO shall provide a written
determination to the contractor stating whether or not good faith efforts have been
demonstrated.
I. Prime contractors are required to comply with Good Faith Efforts procedures as defined
in the DBE regulation under 49 CFR Part 26.53 and detailed under this SBE Program

114

Request for Proposal
RFP 123DH077 - Downtown Rail Intersections Improvement Project (DRIIP) (20% SBE Goal)

Requirements. Prime contractors are required to comply with this section of the SBE
requirements or any SBE program requirements and failure by the contractor to carry
out the requirements of this part as they administer this contract is a material breach of
contract, which may result in the termination of the contract or such other remedy as
the recipient deems necessary as set forth in the DBE regulations under 49 C.F.R.
26.13. The legal remedies include, but is not limited to: withholding monthly progress
payments, assessing sanctions, liquidated damages, and/or disqualifying the contractor
from future bidding as non-responsible.
The Contractor shall ensure that SBE tiered subcontractors comply with this Section and insert
the provisions of this Section into all SBE lower tiered subcontractor agreements, regardless of
their certification status.

15.5. CHANGES
A. The SBE participation goal shall apply to the performance/dollar value of all obligations
under this Contract, including any Changes, Modifications, Amendments and Change
Orders whether initiated by the contractor or RTD. Post award requests for partial
waivers may be considered by RTDs SBO, but a final determination shall not be
rendered until the contract has been substantially completed and the Contractor
demonstrates lack of ability to satisfy the SBE participation goal.
B. Changes to the value or scope of work committed to a SBE must be pre-approved by the
RTD SBO and must be for good cause as set forth in the termination, substitution,
replacement provisions set forth in this SBE Contract Requirements.
RTD may revise and update the SBE Contract Requirements from time to time, in RTDs sole
discretion. Any changes RTD makes to the SBE Contract Requirements are effective
immediately when posted. RTD will provide notice of any material changes to the SBE Contract
Requirements. Execution of this certification shall constitute the Contractors agreement to
comply with the SBE Contract Requirements and any updates to such requirements.

115

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
Cc:
Subject:

Jack Kroll
Tuesday, February 27, 2024 2:08 PM
Erik Davidson; Debra Johnson; Melanie Snyder
FW: OP/ED COLUMN FOR TOMORROW'S BOARD PACKET

Good afternoon, Directors
Please see the article below. Miller Hudson, the author of the below piece in Colorado Politics, emailed the Board Office
and requested that his article be added to the record of todays meeting and that it be shared with the Board.
As such, I am transmitting it now to you all.
Best,
Jack
From: MILLER HUDSON
Sent: Monday, February 26, 2024 10:51 AM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTDDenver.com>
Subject: OP/ED COLUMN FOR TOMORROW'S BOARD PACKET

Antidemocratic state transit policy scheme politically
tone deaf | HUDSON


By Miller Hudson

2/26 COLORADO POLITICS

HEADLINE: Antidemocratic state transit policy scheme politically tone deaf
Fortyfour years ago, Denver state Rep. Jack McCroskey and I successfully passed a bill for the second time in the
Colorado House to elect Regional Transportation District board members. Our bill failed again to receive a vote in th
Senate. Roger Walton was the lobbyist representing the appointed board members, who were virulently opposed to
being replaced with elected members. Walton had persuaded Senate leadership to pocket veto our legislation. Th
torpedoing of our proposal was permissible under existing procedural rules. We warned Roger we were prepared to
circulate petitions and place this question before voters on the 1980 ballot. With time running out, we only had 60 d
to collect 150,000 signatures and were required to use all volunteer circulators.
1

Few observers thought we could pull this off. It would be several years before Common Cause placed its GAVEL
amendment, guaranteeing every bill received both a committee hearing and a floor vote under the Gold Dome. The
prohibition against paid petitioners would not be reversed by Colorado courts for nearly a decade. The odds were,
indeed, stacked against us, and I am the only sponsor of the RTD ballot question remaining.
Stay up to speed: Sign up for daily opinion in your inbox MondayFriday
What no one anticipated at the time was the intense public disgust for the appointed board governing RTD. During t
previous year, it committed three incredible blunders: (1) they leased a private jet to attend a national transit meeti
(2) used tax dollars to hire a private detective to produce evidence of a personal relationship between the general
manager and a member of the board, details of which were leaked to Denver newspapers, and (3) approved the gift
a fullyequipped Winnebago RV to the board chairman by the winning contractor selected to construct the 16th Stre
Mall.
The board had also failed twice to advance a transit alternative despite voter approval of funding for a personal rap
transit (PRT) system which collapsed when the technology proved unworkable and federal dollars evaporated. Ther
was a record of incompetence, arrogance and apparent corruption. Our initiative may be the only petition campaign
where circulators were rushed by voters asking whether they were collecting signatures for an elected RTD board. T
summer, the Denver Art Museum hosted a Muppets exhibition. Jeff Hardcastle and I collected 6,000 signatures daily
we worked our way down the lines of waiting parents. We also purchased tickets for Red Rock concerts, courteously
holding doobies for fans as they signed our clipboards  another 6,000 to 8,000 signatures at each concert. Volunte
descended on parknride lots morning and evenings. We submitted 160,000 signatures two weeks before our dead
In November, 83% of voters supported the elected board. In todays political climate I doubt you could achieve 80%
approval for anything. Voters also rejected the appointed boards third attempt to launch transit with a halfbaked,
lightrail proposal along Interstate 25  without grade separations and requiring crossing arms on exit and entrance
ramps. I cannot tell you the elected board has proven a seamless success. It has had its ups and downs, as always oc
in a democracy. I can say, I believe it required an elected board to finally jumpstart the lightrail system we enjoy to
The priority for the newly elected board was to fix a bus system which had been allowed to badly deteriorate. Trans
planning was put off for a decade. Jack McCroskey resigned his legislative seat to serve as the elected boards first
president. He and the board insisted every bus be equipped with wheelchair lifts  a full decade before the Americ
with Disabilities Act (ADA) was signed by President George H. W. Bush. The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) too
dim view of this policy, as did most other transit industry operators. It was RTDs success that prompted the ADA to
extend a similar requirement nationwide. When RTDs initial request for federal transit funding was denied, McCros
2

persuaded his colleagues to build an initial segment entirely with local funds. Initially it was suggested this would be
connection from I25 and Broadway to Stapleton Airport. When that concept was resisted by majorityBlack
neighborhoods in Park Hill, the segment was changed to link Five Points to Broadway. RTDs next application to the
allowed the agency to use this investment as its match for federal dollars.
Regional transit planners recognized the I25 corridor would provide the most ridership, but neighborhoods along th
route could not reach agreement on routing or stations. Bob Tonsing, former mayor of Littleton, lined up support al
the Santa Fe corridor and grabbed the federal dollars available. Jon Caldara, now at the Independence Institute and
transit skeptic, was elected to the board from Boulder with two objectives: (1) privatizing a significant portion of bus
services and (2) slowing the rush towards transit expansion. Cal Marsella was hired as general manager and Caldara
achieved half of what he wanted  privatization of many routes, but transit proceeded ahead. Caldara did secure
implementation of SKIP routes in Boulder to supplement the existing HOP and JUMP services.
So, why is a cabal of legislators attempting to roll back the elected board in favor of an appointed board after more
than four decades? It isnt a lust for good government, but a desire for special consideration. The Broomfield sponso
have their noses out of joint because their neighborhoods lost several routes when RTD curtailed service in the wak
COVID19 impacts on ridership throughout the region. RTD has weathered pandemic changes to commuting pattern
better than most major transit operators  reducing fares without raising taxes. It likely faces continued choppy wa
for another few years.
The push for an appointed board is not a grassroots demand from riders, but part of a scheme to centralize the cont
of transportation policy along the Front Range. Picking this quarrel at a juncture when Gov. Jared Polis is seeking vot
support for Front Range Passenger Rail is politically tone deaf. RTD has cooperatively joined with CDOT and the Fron
Range Passenger Rail Commission in releasing a joint rail service white paper outlining a strategy for resolving the
promised FasTracks northwest rail extension to Boulder and Longmont. Tossing the elected Board members
representing more than half of Front Range voters before going to the ballot feels colossally selfdefeating.
Im reminded of William F. Buckleys admonition he would prefer to be ruled by a Congress comprised of the first 50
names in the New York City phone book than one appointed from the faculties at Harvard and Yale. Its particularly
disappointing when national Democrats are asking America to protect threatened democracy in Ukraine that legisla
Democrats here are seeking to repeal democracy in favor of a coterie selected among the usual 17th Street suspect
Undoubtedly, they will prove more responsive to elite power brokers than the elected board. Why not put this coup
a vote? Transitdependent riders are likely to take a profoundly dim view of this alleged "improvement."
Miller Hudson is a public affairs consultant and a former Colorado legislator.
3

4

