2023-06-27
Board Meeting Part 3
LYNN GUISSINGER: One minute, and we will start again. Please take your seats.
OK, calling the Board meeting back to order, please. The second recommended action for us tonight is item
C, 2023 Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy Revisions, for the Board of Directors to adopt
revisions to the Code of Conduct and Service Suspension Policy.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have Director Tisdale moving, and Director Buzek as the second. Just to be
clear, the Executive Committee tabled this item to tonight. So this is the original set of revisions. And we
will be the presentation and then some staff changes after. I see two speakers waiting. We were going toSPEAKER: I was going to divide the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great. OK, Director Dishell.
JACK KROLL: We have a-LYNN GUISSINGER: What's that?
JACK KROLL: --it's like the presentation, then we need the motion [? for likes, ?] and then we'll divide the
question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. All right, staff presentation. Is that you, Ms. Johnson, and Mr. Summers?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. If we can have the presentation brought up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege. If we're going to divide the question, is it not more appropriate
to have each presentation accompany each separate question?
SPEAKER: No.
SPEAKER: No, I think it's an attribute presentation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it seems like time-wise, we might-- I mean, I guess-SPEAKER: Let's just hear the presentation first.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder, is this a-- the question is, should we divide it after we-- but I think the
preference is to just do one presentation and then divide it, if you're OK with that. Sorry, Jack.

JACK KROLL: If it is acceptable to Director Dishell, the plan was to have a presentation, and then Director
Williams will make a motion to adopt the changes as provided by staff. And then we were intending to divide
the question at that point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To accept your motion.
JACK KROLL: Oh, yes. So the intended plan here is, we'll take the presentation now. Then Director Williams
will make a motion to adopt the staff changes. Assuming that's seconded, which we assume it will be, then
we were planning on dividing the question at that point.
BOBBY DISHELL: It seems like you'd be amending something before dividing it, and then you'd be dividing
it post-amendment. Is that correct?
JACK KROLL: The Board may adopt whatever plan it wants. This is the recommendation from staff. If you
are making a motion, and you are recognized to divide the question at this time, it's not a debatable motion.
So, Chair, do you recognize the question or the Director to divide the motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. If you-- I mean, I think that the presentation is all one piece. So I think it will go
smoother, and we'll get out of here sooner, if we can do the staff presentation and then divide it, if you're
OK with that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that's fine. I just would also like to reiterate that our goal here is not to get out.
Our goal here is to have a public deliberation. And it sounds like there's a lot of folks who are not as
interested in that, my fellow Board members who are talking out of turn. And so that's fine with me. But our
whole purpose here is not to get out of here tonight. It's to have a public deliberation on the items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Pardon me, but I think that's taking it a little out of context. My point is that we have
this plan, and it has a single presentation. If you want to divide it now, I can ask if we can divide the
presentation. I'm not trying to cut off debate. I'm just trying to run the meeting efficiently. And-BOBBY DISHELL: That's fine. We can proceed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're not trying to cut off any debate, OK? So everyone's on the same page we'll
hear the presentation, there'll be a motion by Director Williams to adopt staff changes. And then we'll
entertain a motion to divide the question.
SPEAKER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's move forward with the staff-- Director Ruscha, did you have something? No,
OK. With the staff presentation at this point, please.
SPEAKER: He's working on the-LYNN GUISSINGER: Presentation, OK. Great. Go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Once again, Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO. And joining me this evening for the presentation is Stuart Summers, who serves as our
Chief Communication and Engagement Officer. Next slide, please.
During this presentation, I will give a snapshot of both the Administrative Code of Conduct as well as staff's
recommended revisions to the code, which has been rebranded as Respect the Ride. There will be more
on that momentarily.
Mr. Summers will prevent information regarding the robust public outreach campaign, as well as the
feedback received from customers, community members, and RTD employees. And lastly, I will round out
the presentation by presenting a brief overview of the service suspension policy. And lastly, we will come
back and then entertain whatever direction which the Board Chair provides.
One thing's for certain. I'm sure you have all read the report that encapsulated the feedback that was
received and contained in the Board packet. I do respectfully ask to hold any questions and comments that
you may have until after the end of the presentation so that everyone has an opportunity to garner context.
Thank you. Next slide.
So now we're going to turn to the agency's existing Administrative Code of Conduct. Next slide.
So as the Board is aware, RTD's statutorily defined purpose is to develop, maintain, and operate a mass
transportation system for the benefit of inhabitants of the district. Being a recipient of public funding, RTD
must ensure equal access to its services. But moreover, as the Chief Executive of this agency, it is right
and just. Hence, it is incumbent upon the agency to ensure, to the extent possible, that a welcoming transit
environment as well as a workplace are provided for all customers and employees, respectively.
In providing and maintaining that welcoming transit environment, RTD must also ensure that individuals
utilize the agency's vehicles and facilities for their intended purposes. To that end, the agency's code of
conduct, referred to as Respect the Ride, outlines a framework of acceptable behaviors and guidelines.
Next slide, please.
Next slide, please. Thank you. No-- right there. Thank you.
So RTD first implemented a formalized Customer Code of Conduct approximately 6-and-1/2 years ago in
December of 2016. The agency revisited the Code of Conduct during the early days of the COVID-19
pandemic. The Board adopted the most recent iteration of the code in July of 2020.
Four months ago, staff brought recommended revisions to the Code of Conduct for the Board's
consideration during the Operations and Safety Committee meeting on February 15, 2023. Next slide,
please.
Following the initial adoption of the code on February 15, 2023 by the Operations and Safety Committee
on a vote of 5 to 2, the Board requested that staff conduct a public engagement process to solicit additional
feedback on the recommended revisions. As you may recall, after a robust discussion at the Board
Executive Committee on February 22, this item was tabled to a date certain of June 27-- hence, here we
are-- with a corresponding request for a thorough and comprehensive engagement process.
Prior to the launch of the public engagement process, the Customer Code of Conduct was rebranded as
Respect the Ride. The feedback period opened for 60 days beginning on Monday, April 3, and concluded
on Friday, June 2, at 11:59 PM, during which time staff launched a comprehensive media strategy and

engaged with customers, community members, and RTD employees across the myriad of events and
through engagement surveys, the responses to which Mr. Summers will share in just a moment. Next slide,
please.
Rebranded as Respect the Ride, the guidelines contain their end focus on RTD's provision of a safe,
convenient, enjoyable experience for all customers, with an emphasis on respect, respect being one of
RTD's organizational values defined in the agency's strategic plan as the ideal that we will demonstrate
respect and integrity in all our interactions with both our colleagues and community members, while the
code is intended to continue to deter illegal activities and discourage disruptive behaviors. Next slide,
please.
The revisions simplify the existing guidelines and emphasize an expectation of respect for fellow
employees, customers, RTD vehicles, and facilities. Next slide, please.
Focusing on an expectation of common courtesy, education is key in establishing and maintaining a
welcoming transit environment. As such, encouraging customers to respect the ride will always be the first
step in encouraging appropriate behaviors at stations and stops and aboard transit vehicles. For individuals
who may be in need of Public Health and Safety resources, RTD deploys a professional support team to
assist those individuals. The team is comprised of third-party mental health care clinicians and an outreach
coordinator focused on unhoused individuals. And in areas where the agency does not have the resources
or expertise to assist those individuals, RTD can provide information regarding available community
resources.
I cannot stress enough that enforcement of the code is limited to situations where a more direct response
is warranted beyond education or resource assistance. Verbal or written warnings are often effective tools.
And sworn police officers or contracted transit security personnel engage with contacted individuals in a
fair and reasonable manner. Next slide, please.
Now, shifting focus to the proposed Respect the Ride revisions-- going forward to the next slide, please-staff is recommending 17 rewrites and four removals from the current 49 sections currently found in the
code, with the goal of simplifying the existing code, eliminating redundancies, and emphasizing the
expectation of mutual respect. The revisions were shared with customers, community members,
stakeholders, and employees throughout the two-month engagement process. Next slide, please.
So going forward to the next slide, with that, I will yield the microphone to Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer Stuart Summers to share information regarding the public engagement campaign and
the resulting feedback. Mr. Summers, the floor is yours.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you. Madam Chair, members of the Board. It's my pleasure to talk a little bit
about the engagement campaign and then the results of our feedback survey. As you all received a couple
of weeks ago, we had about a 100-page summary report that was prepared with all the-- collected all the
information that we received.
In March 2023, RTD staff developed a comprehensive outreach and engagement strategy to garner the
feedback that we were asked to collect. During that two-month campaign, we utilized a combination of
assets, including earned media, which is public relations, owned media, which would be things like our
website and other assets, and paid media, like paid advertising on social media and other digital platforms.

All campaign materials were available in English and Spanish. And we had a full internal employee-facing
communications suite that we utilized. Next slide.
A few highlights that I want to point out that I think are worth noting, we have more than 31,000 social media
impressions, 2,000 engagements. This would include things like likes, retweets, comments on the posts.
We garnered 519,000 total impressions across digital advertising.
Spanish-language campaign on social media garnered 682 click-throughs to the Respect the Ride
campaign website. And the QR code which was used on our vehicles was scanned 149 times to learn more
information about the Code of Conduct. And that's just a few of the highlights. Next slide.
So getting to the feedback survey, this is designed to be a listening tool to gather information about
perceptions, opinions, and attitudes. It is not an intercept survey of customers. It's important to note that
this is not a statistical representation of RTD's customers as a whole, community members, the Metro area,
or RTD's employees. It is meant to provide individual perspectives and comments that were collected.
Respondents were limited to one response per device. And we put in the survey skip logic to allow for better
data collection to ensure that respondents were only required to answer questions that they felt were
applicable to them or they felt comfortable answering. Next slide.
Overall, through this feedback survey, we had 1,683 respondents. All respondents were required or asked
to identify their connection to RTD. Of that, 913 identified as customers, 301 RTD employees, 136 as
community, and 333 skipped this question to identify which category they fell into. As you'll note in this
presentation in the top right-hand corner, it corresponds with a page number in the summary report if you
have additional questions, and you want to follow along. Next slide.
One of the questions we asked was, how familiar are you with RTD's existing code of conduct that was
approved in 2020, as GM CEO outlined a few minutes ago. Of the 913 customers, about half were
somewhat or very familiar. Less than that, community members, 40.8% were somewhat or very familiar.
And 81.4% of RTD employees were somewhat or very familiar. This points to a need for more education
and signage and information about the Code of Conduct, with less than half of individuals feeling that they
were somewhat or very familiar with the Code of Conduct. Next slide.
Another question, how much do you agree with the following statement, the proposed changes to RTD's
Code of Conduct support a safer environment for customers. Of the 913 individuals that identified as
customers, 77.6%, or 685 individuals, somewhat or strongly agree with that statement. 76.5% of community
members somewhat or strongly agree. And 79.2%, or about 225 RTD employees that filled out the survey,
somewhat or strongly agree with that statement. Next slide.
If the prohibited activities or behaviors you observed were less common or prevented completely, would
you use RTD services more often? Of the 913 customers, 80.6% indicated that they would use RTD
services more often. Of the community members, 85% indicated that they would use RTD services more
often. That was 108 individuals, for a total number of 840 respondents indicating that they would use the
system more than they currently are. Next slide.
One of the questions we wanted to ask was about the prohibited activities and behaviors that have been
observed in the last six months by the respondent. So this is for customers' top five observed behaviors.
Number one, littering-- 667 customers indicated that littering was the number one thing that they observed.
Individuals were allowed to select all that apply.

Number two, loud music, 621 individuals, for 68%. Illegal drug use was number three at 66%, or 603
individuals indicating that as the top three. Next slide.
For community members top five observed-- and, again, able to select multiple options. Number one,
littering at 66.2%. Number two, illegal drug use at 61.8%, followed by fare-related violations at 56.6%. And
then number four and five rounding out, smoking marijuana or cigarettes and threats or harassment. Next
slide.
When we asked this question to RTD employees of which prohibited activities or behaviors they've
observed and were able to select all that apply, the number one, at nearly 80%, was illegal drug use. 240
employees indicated that. Number two, littering, at 79.1%. And then fare-related violations rounding out the
top three at 77.1%. Next slide.
Another question we asked was, of the prohibited activities and behaviors, which do you feel is the most
important issue for RTD to address? And respondents were limited to one response. They could only select
one option. Number one for customers was illegal drug use. 347 of the 913 customers indicated illegal drug
use.
And I will note that you'll see four down on that in the not listed. Under not listed, there were 70 that added
additional context. And about a third of those said all of the above or some sort of variation of all. Next slide.
When this question was asked of community members, the number one also was illegal drug use, 43 of the
136 total respondents at 38.7%. And similarly, under the not listed, about a third of individuals indicated in
their open-ended response something of all of the above or all options. Next slide.
When this question was asked of RTD employees, number one again, illegal drug use. 124 of the 303
respondents indicated illegal drug use. And additionally, under the not listed, approximately about a third
also indicated all of the above or unable to select just one option. Next slide.
One question that we asked specifically to RTD employees was, please tell us how much you agree with
the following statement. The proposed changes to RTD's Code of Conduct supports a safer environment
for employees. With this question, 72.4% somewhat or strongly agree that it does support a safer
environment for employees. Next slide.
And then to the open-ended responses, which was a bulk of the summary report, we received 531 written
comments from customers, 66 open-ended written comments from community members, and 146 from
employees. And all of those comments are included in the summary report and the public documents. And
I will say that staff did not make any edits, any changes, or any alterations to any of those public comments.
One last thing I want to point out is, we went through the open comments, read through all of them,
obviously. We tried to figure out if there were some categories, terms, or topics that were the most frequently
addressed. For customers, the number one topic that received open feedback were fare or fare-related
comments and topics. For community, it was issues around safety or being safe. And for employees, it,
again, was fare, fare-related violations were what most of those open-ended comments were about. And
with that, I'll yield the floor back to Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Summers. So before concluding, I would be remiss not to
briefly summarize the service suspension policy that accompanies Respect the Ride. So if we could move
forward to the next slide, please.

So the policy, just to be clear, is an administrative tool utilized to promote a welcoming transit environment,
both for customers and employees. For customers who do not Respect the Ride, the policy establishes
suspension periods based on the severity of the offense. The more serious or the more frequent a person's
violations, the longer the person's access to facilities and services are suspended.
For example, a one-year minimum suspension is warranted for an individual committing a crime of violence.
To reiterate, for RTD's purposes, this is an administrative, rather than a criminal, matter and is intended to
address behavior that is detrimental to a welcoming transit environment. Anyone receiving a suspension is
given notice of the reason for the suspension and is afforded the opportunity to appeal the suspension.
During the appeal process, relevant information related to the incident or incidents that warranted the
suspension, as well as any mitigating or aggravating factors, will be taken into consideration.
So with that, that concludes our formal presentation, Madam Chair. And I would welcome any questions or
comments from the Board at this time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. We will go to discussion here in just a minute. I think I'm getting this in
the right order. Director Williams, do you have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I've been waiting very patiently. I move to amend the Code of Conduct and
Service Suspension Policy by adopting the staff's proposed changes dated April 3 that are outlined in pages
152 through 156 of the Board meeting packet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second?
SPEAKER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. And then do we have a-- I don't know if this is Director Dishell or a
Director Ruscha motion to divide the question.
SPEAKER: It says we need to get a vote first, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. No, not for a motion to divide, apparently.
SPEAKER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to divide the question as follows. A, for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions
to the Service Suspension Policy. And B, for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the Code of
Conduct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is there a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will second that, Director Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha has seconded it. And my understanding is that this is not a debatable
item. So it's a matter that goes directly to vote. Is there anybody who would vote no on this motion to divide?
OK, seeing none, the motion carries with 14 yes votes and 0 no votes and one person absent. All right.
We have a motion to-- a motion and a second to amend to adopt the staff's changes as of the April 3
version. I believe it's April 3. Do we have discussion?

JACK KROLL: Speaker, we're going to discuss the Code of Conduct first and then the suspension policy
second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. This is on the Code of Conduct. Any discussion on that item? I believe we
have some amendments. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is more of a question. Are we allowed-- generally, when
we have a staff presentation, we can ask for follow up, or we can ask clarifying questions. Is this where we
could do that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's for now. You're welcome to ask questions and raise comments and any other
discussion.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. So actually, I was wondering if staff could walk us through. We have some
additions to the code. If they could just briefly explain the rationale for those.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, do you have some specific questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, I think there are four new rules, and just understanding the rationale behind them
would be helpful before, I think, we discuss-SPEAKER: That's why I love being here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that Ms. Johnson? Or whose-DEBRA JOHNSON: So there's no confusion, Madam Chair and Director Ruscha, if you could specify
exactly what package page you're referring to so nothing's left to ambiguity, I would appreciate that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that the matters at issue, the chart that shows the old version and the newer
version is 152 to 165 or something like that.
SPEAKER: 152 [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER: 152 to 156.
LYNN GUISSINGER: 152 to 156. It should-- going there, it should become clear.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So the first one, I'm looking out on package page 152, where we have proposed
revision, where it says, "Being within an RTD fare paid area without prior payment of the proper fare." So
in relationship to that rationale, recognizing what we're moving towards with the welcoming transit
environment, is we look to have a closed fare payment system. It's to ensure that people have the adequate
fare, and they're in the area in which they should be in, and they're utilizing the facilities and the vehicles
for the intended purpose, which is for means of public transport.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I am going to clarify my question. I just-- I was hoping that
you could provide the rationale to the Board for the new rules, because these are rules that we might not
be familiar with or would be new to the community, just so that we don't have to infer the intent.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, so just a point of clarification. So as I look, you're looking at the proposed action
that says, "new addition." Is that correct?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. And I think in the presentation, it said there were two new additions that would be
brand-new rules. And I was wondering if you might take a moment to walk us through those.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So as we have on package page 154, right immediately after item 20, where
the new edition says, "Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive
behavior, unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an individual
because of their sex, race, color, national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity,
pregnancy, ancestry, age, military status, disability, genetic information, or any other status protected by
law."
As we stated, this is administrative in nature. Quite naturally, there are certain elements relative to us being
a public agency. Of course, we're going to adhere to local, state, and federal laws. And this just qualifies
what those are. And we call that out specifically.
The following line says, "Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of
the peace. This includes, but not is limited, fighting words or threatening language that causes others to
fear for their safety." Once again, that supports the effort of creating a welcoming transit environment. And
we've qualified that specifically by including language so there's no ambiguity in what we are expecting
relative to behaviors and guidelines.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, I think there's one more. And I apologize, because I'm scrolling through to find
the appropriate page.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see one on page 155-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I just saw.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Three from the bottom. It doesn't have a number, but new addition, it says.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So package page 155, it is the one right before the marigold-highlighted element
that says, wheeled devices. And this says, "Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of
the circumstances indicates that an individual is not using RTD services, contracting lawful business,
engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a fundamental right." This new addition also speaks
to what I just said in my aforementioned comments relative to ensuring that the purposes of our facilities
and vehicles are being used for movement or access to public transport. And we're qualifying that in such
a way, recognizing that oftentimes, we have had various comments relative to people occupying spaces
without the intent of utilizing those for the means of public transport.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I don't have any further questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Anybody else with questions or comments on the presentation? Staff changes
and the presentation? OK, I think we have a few amendments, not as many as were handed to us earlier,
but maybe five or six. Yes, ma'am?
KATE WILLIAMS: Do we not vote on this movement before we go to additional amendments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think they're amending-- they're moving to amend the version that's on the table.
STUART SUMMERS: So the best way to handle this is, we've made a motion to amend. And we have all
of those changes available in the Board document. So that we get the best and most complete outcome, if
there are additional Director-initiated amendments, we should entertain those before holding a final vote on
the Code of Conduct as amended by staff, which you have recommended, and any additional amendments
which come from Directors that are approved to be included.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
SPEAKER: Well, I wanted to know. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
STUART SUMMERS: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we received one yesterday from Director Dishell. I think we'll start with that
one. Just going in order, Director Dishell, you have an amendment?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. It is on the screen? No. But I also just want to quickly note and commend staff on
the presentation and on the survey itself. We had almost twice as many, or more like 1-and-1/2 times as
many, Spanish-speaking click-throughs as we did English click-throughs. And I think the emphasis on
Spanish-language engagement at the agency is newer under Ms. Johnson's leadership.
And I think it's important for all of us Directors to take note and look at those numbers and look at our
community and who is really engaging with us and the way in which they are engaging. That is really
amazing to see and really, really amazing. So thank you, guys.
Now, on to the amendment, which was circulated via email. So I move to amend-- oh, it's on the screen.
Wonderful. I move to amend rule number 16 to read as follows, "Engaging in disruptive behavior"-- oh, can
you scroll up a little bit on the screen? Or down. Yeah. So that I can see it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There you go.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. "Engaging in disruptive behavior that materially interferes with other
passengers'," apostrophe, "utilizing or accessing RTD services or materially interferes with RTD personnel
performing official duties."
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to explain that at all?

BOBBY DISHELL: Oh-LYNN GUISSINGER: Chris, we need a second. Yeah.
DIRECTOR BOUQUET: I'm happy to second the amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. OK-SPEAKER: Director Bouquet seconds the motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell has made the motion, and Director Bouquet has seconded it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, and the logic behind the motion, so you want-LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to start with an explanation?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, so the logic behind the motion is to shift from the exhibiting verbiage, which
focuses more on the way in which someone exists and presents themselves, to engaging, which is a more
active act and requires someone to be doing something. And then adding the-- changing it from
"reasonable" to "material," just sort of elevating that standard to avoid what might be perceived discomfort
with other people's existence to someone truly actually engaging in behavior that interferes with someone's
ability to use our services or interferes with someone's ability to do their job.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, so I have another procedural question. So right now, I'm OK with my own
amendment. And I'm OK with Director Dishell's amendment. But I understand that there are other
amendments, and then do I get to vote individually on the ones I'm OK with and the ones I'm not?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We will vote individually here. That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: After we hear them all? So we don't vote-LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think what we'll do is, we'll take this-- unless somebody else wants to change
it, I think we have a motion and a second. We'll have discussion, and then we'll vote on Director Dishell's
motion before we move on.
KATE WILLIAMS: And what about mine?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, these are motions to amend your motion. So we'll come back to yours. Yours
is the big motion. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's why I was asking for help. I'm a transit person, not a policy person.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other comments or discussion? Anything from staff?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, I would recommend that we utilize the word customer in lieu of
passengers.
BOBBY DISHELL: Friendly.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Is that a friendly-- you're open to that? OK. May I borrow this? Any other
comments? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. Is there a definition of materially interfering?
BOBBY DISHELL: How many times have you argued that one?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't think we should have to argue it, right? I guess I have a concern that it's just
undefined. But if staff is OK with it, I'm good. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It's essentially the same point, that I was
comfortable with reasonable. I'm nervous about materially. But as Director Buzek says, if staff can live with
that, that's fine.
I do appreciate the change of exhibiting to engaging. For one thing, that's just what the balance of the
document already says, so it's a very sensible amendment. So I'm quite happy to see that. But I raise the
question of materiality to see if staff would like to comment on it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that's a very good question. Would staff like to comment on the question
of materially rather than reasonably? No? OK, Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I, too, agree with Director Tisdale on the engaging verbiage. But
"materially interferes with other passengers utilizing or accessing RTD services" can be interpreted as, well,
if you get on, and you get to your place, you don't have a complaint. So I believe "disturbing the reasonable
comfort" is more in line with the intent of the Code of Conduct than "materially interferes with other
passengers." And I don't know why we have to then add extra wordage about interfering with RTD personnel
if we can just put the two together.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'll take Director Ruscha real quick and then come back to you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. We also don't define what is reasonable. And I think that
we'd have a range of definitions for what reasonably disrupts or impacts customer comfort. So I would agree
with Director Dishell that materially is just more appropriate and, I think, draws a more clear line. We are
not here to-- we're not targeting individuals. We are here to target behavior.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I was just going to explain that the logic behind removing "reasonable comfort"
has to do with someone's mere existence could make someone reasonably uncomfortable. If you were
born in a place where you may believe that a marriage is only between a man and a woman, and you see
two queer folks together on a train, that may reasonably make you uncomfortable, and you may take action
to make yourself reasonably comfortable, which would be directly harmful to those individuals. And so the
reason for changing it from "reasonable comfort" to "material interference" has to do with the fact that,
again, you need to actually do something to interfere with someone's transit, as opposed to "reasonable
comfort."

Well, I know most people are probably thinking of, you're playing music too loud. My main concern is that
there are a number of-- and an increasing number of people who are feeling discomfort with other people's
existence and taking action on that discomfort. And as a result, the interference language was added.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Whereas I don't necessarily go along with the explanation that
Director Dishell offers, staff has not expressed any opposition to this. So I'm going to support the
amendment unless staff says they're against it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess in order to address some of the concerns, the
key words are also "disruptive behavior." It's not just sitting there. It's also a person engaging in something.
And that's both in the proposed change and in the planned amendment. So I believe that we should stick
with the current proposed change. I don't think it's necessary to make any change to this. And so I'll vote
no at the appropriate time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'm sorry for speaking twice. But I agree with what Director Sloan said. You
know, "materially interfering" can be so many things.
For example, you get on the bus, and somebody pushes you or spits in your face, but you make it to your
seat. I got to my seat, so is that materially interfering? It didn't really interfere with me. I'm in my seat. Is that
a violation of our Code of Conduct? I think it opens up too many unwanted activities to be acceptable.
Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to note that things like spitting, interfering with
someone's ability to exit, get into an aisle, profanity, et cetera, those things are already covered in the other
rules that we have. I'm not sure if we're at 49 or 51 rules. But just about every other disruptive behavior is
covered in a different rule.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Next point. Anything else? Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Call to question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I have one quick comment. But I guess looking for a second on calling the
question. Or can I make one quick comment?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Make the comment. It's OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't see a huge difference in terms of the ambiguity of "reasonable comfort"
versus "materially interferes." But I do hear the argument that judging it by somebody else's comfort could
be problematic. I think that, again, this is warnings from our police and security. And I don't see a huge
difference between these two, so I will probably support it as well.

I'm calling-- we don't even need to call the vote. There's no more discussion. So we will go to the vote. I'm
going to call the roll to go through it. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
DIRECTOR DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Har-- is not here. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: No
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we have-- oh, my vote is a yes. Thank you. 1, 2, 3, 4, we have 4 nos and 10
yeses. The motion passes. All right.
And now I think we have maybe four or five motions from Director Ruscha and Director Guzman,
amendments. Who would like to start?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. So we did send out quite a few of these, and we worked on them very hard.
So what we would like to do is present five to consider. And then we have asked the Chair of the Safety
and Operations Committee if she is amenable to us bringing the rest back through that committee so that
they can be fleshed out in the committee process and brought back to the Board at a later time. So-LYNN GUISSINGER: For the record, she said yes. And so did the Vice Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So we will begin by looking at number-- the first number 4. Sorry, there
was a misnumbering in the packet that we gave you.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: If somebody can just direct me to exactly which document and where we are, I'd be happy
to follow.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This document is-- it's a very good question.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It starts with Director Dishell amendment on one side. The other side has Regional
Transportation Resolution number. It goes with the Colorado Proud Day. But you want to find the Director
Dishell amendment and go in a couple of pages to amendment 4. There are two amendments 4. We're
going with the first one here.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so we are addressing it. I'm sorry. A motion has not been made yet. So I'm speaking
out of turn. But I'm asking on a point of order. I take it we're about to have a motion to amend to adopt
language that is set forth in this document as amendment 4.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: First amendment 4, correct. All right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and it's the first of the two discussions that are labeled amendment 4.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Just I'd like the record to be clear for anybody who ever reviews this. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman, go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I apologize for the misnumbering. It was just a mistake. So I motion to amend the
language to add language to the rule that says, "Failing to"-- currently, the rule says, "Failing to leave an
RTD vehicle once fare has expired or upon reaching the fare zone for which fare was purchased." There is
a staff-proposed change to it, which says, "Once media has expired or upon reaching its final destination."
We would like to make the change, which is an addition of language to the staff-proposed change, which is
that "a fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit or if the service has been delayed or
interrupted in such a way that it would have caused a customer to pay more than originally required to
complete their trip," which I think is common sense, but it does happen.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Anything else you'd like to add? Do we have a second to this motion?
SPEAKER: Point of order on behalf of Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams is looking at-- not able to find where this language failure-LYNN GUISSINGER: You see the packet that is-- the front page is Director-KATE WILLIAMS: No, I see that. I don't see where-LYNN GUISSINGER: This should be-- if you go two pages again and look on the back of that page, there
should be an amendment 4 and then another amendment 4.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I was reading-- OK, got it. Thank you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Let's see. We have a motion. Do we have a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll second that motion, Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Guzman and a second from Director Ruscha.
Any discussion? Director Williams, are you still wanting to discuss?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: So then the language in red-- I'm sorry, apologize. This is why I didn't want to do this
without having time to study all this. I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the current rule says, "Failure to leave an RTD vehicle once fare is expired or upon
reaching the fare zone for which the fare was purchased"-LYNN GUISSINGER: No. That was the original rule. The current rule is the next one, failing to exit-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. Madam Chair, that's actually the original motion. The motion that I made
is what you see, because it would retain the current rule.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. But the motion that we are discussing-DOUG TISDALE: The motion Director Williams made to amend to adopt staff changes is what you would
see under staff-proposed changes. That's the sub-motion we're currently under. But the sub-sub-motion is
now the motion to amend to include the language that Director Guzman has moved and Director Ruscha
has seconded.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's right. But this is an amendment to that amendment. So we need to-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The language.
KATE WILLIAMS: That is my point. So now, what we are seeing that I don't know about anybody else in
the world-- yeah, they are seeing it-- in red is what I need to take a moment to read and understand and
perhaps to have an explanation of what the reasoning behind the changes are, since that seems to be what
we've done so far is, Ms. Johnson explained her reasoning. Director Dishell explained his. So, Director
Guzman, what is the reasoning behind the read language?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So the read language is that we failed to consider in this rule that fare media may
expire while you're in transit, either because of a disruption to service, a deer making contact with the W
line, for example, and pausing that train as you're getting back from BIA and have transferred to get to
Golden-- just an example, a hypothetical-- that would have otherwise caused you to pay for two separate
fare media and not just one.
Now, the A Line fare is a full-day fare, and it would get you all the way there without a problem. However,
if somebody was just doing a regional, it may expire while you're in transit. So it's just to be thoughtful,
create the welcoming environment that if you are 3 hours into your trip, you're delayed a half an hour, your
fare has now expired, but you're still on the train or on the bus, that it's till you get to your final destination,
that you're not going to be recharged 30 minutes before you arrive at that final destination. I think it's kind
of a common-sense approach to collecting the fare properly if somebody only intended to ride for 3 hours
and ended up having to ride for longer not due to their own cause.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson, would you like to address this? Or would you rather hear other
comments first?
DEBRA JOHNSON: In relationship to this, if there's broader discussion on this, I'd rather hear the rationale
associated with such, because-LYNN GUISSINGER: My fourth speaker is waiting. So if you want to hear the four speakers who are in the
line and then-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that would be most helpful to us. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. This was also brought forward in consideration of those who
might have a three-hour pass. And it's very similar to the idea if you're in line at the time of closing or when
the polls closed, you know that you are still in line. You will still be served. So this is really intended for folks
who are currently in transit going to their destination, but their fare has expired because it had a time on it.
And I suppose it also could mean a day pass if you're on a trip that extends past what is it, midnight or 2:00
or whenever that expires.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So my concern is that this proposed amendment is so
wide, you could drive a truck through it, in that a person is on, let's just say, a train. And they want to get
onto a bus. And in order to reach their destination, they say, OK, well, I need to get onto that bus. And so
they leave the train. They need time to get onto the bus. And they could say to someone who maybe checks
fares, well, you know, I need to get to my destination.
But then would this also open up the opportunity that they could just stay on transit forever? They could
keep saying, well, I'm getting on another bus and another bus and another bus. I have not yet reached my
destination yet. And that is a good and valid concern for a person to stay on transit in perpetuity. And I think
that we need to be aware of-- inasmuch as tonight, we're talking hypotheticals, and we're talking about how
some might misuse this system, I can definitely see somebody misuse it by saying, well, I'm just not, quote,
at my destination, end quote, when there is no destination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. And this is a question for staff, which is, should the Board choose to adopt the
fare policy that has been proposed, my understanding is that we would no longer-- you're paying for a fullday fare. And so with the time-based element, is this really a stopgap measure for the time between when
the code of conduct goes into place and when you're able to purchase full-day fare? And I guess that's a
question for Ms. Johnson just to confirm, and then for Director Guzman to also provide insight.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. I don't want to be presumptuous relative to
what the Board may decide to consider at the July meeting. But let's say we're in a utopian society, and
everybody agreed unanimously that we would basically leverage a new fare structure. This would not be
applicable for all intents and purposes, as we look at our new fare structure going forward. And so when
we talk about day passes, they generally end at a time certain. And that's usually in alignment with the
service delivery model that we have utilized.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a good question. Go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, and then Director Guzman or Director Ruscha, either way. Would that change
your amendment looking in the future, should the Board choose next month to adopt that fare structure?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So perhaps we should just clarify just for everyone. We also have day
passes. Could staff, just for the record, remind us when they expire? And do we run service after midnight?
I'm also thinking about that situation.

DEBRA JOHNSON: We currently do have transportation that exceeds midnight as we go forward. In relative
to the day past, I don't have that information off the top of my head. Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial
Officer, come save me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To the rescue.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. Doug MacLeod. The new fare structure would be we have both a day
pass and a single-trip pass. That single-trip pass is good for 3 hours. The day pass is good for the service
day, which is-- I don't recall what the exact hours are, but it does pass midnight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else? Director Dishell, I believe.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair, sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So two things. Director Rosenthal, it's upon reaching-- the final destination refers to
the RTD vehicle that this person is on, not their personal interpretation of what their final destination is.
Ownership is not given to the customer in that situation. It's given to the vehicle that they're on.
This is intended to protect customers from overpaying for fare that is not necessary because, through no
fault of their own, they're stuck in transit. It's as simple as that. Somebody's checked my fare, and it expires
30 minutes. We hit a problem in transit. And the train or the bus does not move for 20 minutes, and it's
going to take me 15 to get to the destination or the end of that line. My fare will have expired by the time I
arrive.
Are they going to throw me off 50 feet away from the train consist? Are they going to allow me to ride to the
end fairly because I paid that fare and, through no fault of my own, I'm delayed 20 minutes. And I'm thinking
of EH&R lines and construction work that's being done where delays are real, but somebody is paying for
a three-hour pass to get somewhere, and they may not make it.
And this is not an everyday thing. This is a small measure until we move forward into the new structure,
and we can address it again then when it is a different relevance in the situation of the new system-wide
fares that potentially may pass if this Board moves in that direction.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. I'm glad we're having this discussion. Director Guzman, I think I understand
where you're going with this. I think that the verbiage is excessive. I think if it's that a fare is not considered
expired if a person is still in transit, no or. No or. If the service has been delayed or interrupted, and quit
right there. Then you would solve the problem that you-- I believe that you're working toward, which I think
we all are supportive of.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am friendly to that.

KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else with me on that one? Do I need to read it again for the record? So the
original statement, we're all in favor of, "Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or upon
reaching its final destination," period. A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, if the
service has been delayed or interrupted, period.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That helps.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Making a motion to that effect?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have a second for that?
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I'm wondering, Director Williams, if when you read that, you meant to say that
the new language would read, "A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, and the service
has been delayed or interrupted." Is that what I understood you to be saying? I will second that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's correct. It's and instead of or.
DOUG TISDALE: If the person is still in transit, and the service has been delayed or interrupted, so that
there are two conditions present. That's how I understand the amendment, and that's what I seconded.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is kind of picky. But in that statement, I think a person could argue that they are in
transit. And would it be more clear to say-- to discuss it as a trip, because that person purchased fare media
for a specific trip with an origin and destination. But the process of being in transit could be argued that it
was-- that, well, I'm still in transit, to Director Rosenthal's point. So to amend the amendment, I would
suggest changing it to say, "a trip."
KATE WILLIAMS: If the person is still on a trip?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, that wouldn't be good. No, Kate. If a person's trip or service has been delayed or
interrupted-- if a person's trip. I struggle with the term "in transit" is my point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you wanting to make a motion to amend this language?
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: Would staff mind adjusting the language on the screen so we can all work from a
common set, versus our own--

LYNN GUISSINGER: A fare is not considered expired if a person is still in transit, and the service has been
delayed or interrupted. That's the language. While they are working on that, Director Ruscha, I guess you're
next. We'll come back to you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of personal privilege. When we are amending amendments on the screen, can
you use the strikethrough option so we can see what is actually being amended? Thank you. And so to
Director Rosenthal's points about folks potentially taking advantage of this rule, we have multiple rules
already that address fares evasion and not having the appropriate fare. So I do feel like that is already
taken care of. The purpose of this amendment is to not cause conflicts between customer and staff when
they did purchase the appropriate fare, and they are still in transit.
And I would also note that we have not debated, voted, or done much in the public body regarding future
fares changes. But one major proposal before us is to eliminate the three-hour pass and replace it with a
single trip. So the amendments before us and the Code of Conduct before us relates to what is relevant to
this moment. We don't know what will happen in a few months when we talk about the fare media changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I think in order to alleviate the concern that I brought is
to put something to the effect of, "In their current bus or train." So that way, it is upon-- so failing to exit a
vehicle once fare media has expired or reaching its final destination using their current bus or train.
So in other words, they can't just keep getting off one transit and another transit and getting on another
transit and saying, you know what, I'm not at my destination yet. And this goes to everybody's point, which
is, well, you know what? They're late, or there's a delay, what have you. So I think if it really, truly means
this bus or this train is late, then I don't see why anybody would oppose such a change.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. So we've got two discussions here. And am I hearing a motion? Do you want
to come back to you?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I suppose that I would be moving to amend the amendment to the amendment. Is that
correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And to clarify that it says, "on the current bus or train in question," let's just say. And
if somebody wants to wordsmith. But you understand where I'm going with it. So nobody can say-LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't exactly. Where are you putting that?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right at the end of the word destination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: In the first sentence.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Or actually, is still in transit-- actually, that's a better spot for it-- "In transit on their
current bus or train."
DOUG TISDALE: Will the gentleman yield for a question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Rather than "current," do you want to say "initial"?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: On their-DOUG TISDALE: Current, because anything I'm on is the current one.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right, on their initial. Yes, that's fine. That's a friendly change, "on their initial bus or
train." And that would take care of my concern.
SPEAKER: Can we vote on that separately?
LYNN GUISSINGER: On what? This?
SPEAKER: Director Rosenthal?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we don't have a second yet. Is there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Rosenthal to add "on their initial bus or train,"
and a second from Director Buzek. It is getting a little strung out here. I'm going to take the next two
speakers, and then maybe we'll start to see if we can make them so-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Yeah. Ms. Johnson, do you have someone that wants to-DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I'm going to speak-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah, this kind of wordsmithing would be good in ops.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that what you were going to say?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I may, I was just conferring with the ADM bus operations. We
don't have a route or a train that travels for 3 hours. So that's what I wanted to qualify or clarify. If there is
service disruption, understood. But when we're talking about the verbiage that you guys are currently
discussing, where we talk about "initial bus or train," really, you're talking about on a revenue vehicle. So
we could basically make that more succinct there. But we don't have any bus or train that is in revenue
service on a one-way trip for 3 hours.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so in other words, you're addressing the "on their initial bus or train," that's the
language that doesn't make sense-DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. That's all I just wanted to offer up because I heard some comments relative to
the 3-hour pass and things of the like. And then I think it's important to note, too, as we talk about going
forward that we will have fare capping.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Director Sloan?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to say that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I do agree that no one would disagree with the substance of the proposed
amendment. I would like to point out two things, though. One is that all these rules are subject to reasonable
interpretation by our law enforcement. One of the reasons that we have the proposed staff changes is to
simplify. And we are now expanding the language on each of these provisions.
The other is, a Board of 15 people is not the appropriate place to do wordsmithing. And we will-- because
we received these on our way into the meeting rather than before the meeting, I think every one of these
amendments is going to have the same difficulty. I'm uncomfortable with reaching different wordage as we
go forward tonight as a general proposition. Because I'm uncomfortable with us reaching a good provision,
I am going to vote no on each of these, not because I oppose them, but because they have not had
thoughtful vetting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. If we could refrain from insulting a director's work, I think the meeting will
go more smoothly. So we do actually have routes that take an hour and a half. Sometimes you have to
transfer. Sometimes you have to wait for 30 minutes. Sometimes the bus is late. Sometimes it blows by
you.
Again, we have-- I didn't count-- multiple rules on fares evasion and paying for the correct fare media. The
language that's now in front of us on the screen no longer reflects the intent of the amendment. So, again,
the point here is to ensure that we don't entrap a paying customer into an arbitrary rule, and also to make
sure that we are not creating more potential for conflict between staff, be that an operator or RTD PD or
our contracted security and the customer. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. So this no longer reflects what you're looking for. Is that right? OK. I don't
think there was any insult there. I think it was just a statement that people haven't had a chance to review
these. Normally, they go through the committee, and that probably is a better process than getting them
right before the meeting. So Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. In regard to the comment relative to multiple rules
addressing this, I'm not finding all of those. That's undoubtedly my fault. And the Director is undoubtedly
correct in what she states. But I'm not finding multiple rules that address this specific issue.
Secondly, the GM CEO's suggestion, at first, I didn't agree with. And then I realized it is an excellent and
elegant fix to the whole thing, given the scheduling, so that we don't even need the words, "and service has
been delayed or interrupted," because we're talking about the initial bus or train. So I think that's fine.
If we wanted to, I think we could adopt that, and we could fix it. However, that having been said, I am-when we get back to the amendment by Director Guzman, as seconded by Director Ruscha, before the
amendment as made by Director Williams and seconded by me and then the amendment by Director
Rosenthal, which was seconded by Director Buzek. But when we get back to that first amendment to the
amendment, I'm going to move to table. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Okey doke. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And just because we may disagree with a Director does not mean
we mean any kind of insult. So I didn't hear that either.

However, the fact that we got these moments before our meeting is problematic, because we don't have
time to consider or understand what your intent is and consider it. And then we're faced with these
amendments after amendments. And what you just talked about is what happens. It's not what you intended
or what you wanted. And now it's changed dramatically. And it could pass like this, whether you like it or
not.
So I think a better way is to have this come through committee like the original one did and came out of
committee unanimously. It should go back to that committee, and all of these amendments should be
proposed, given their due consideration and good discussion and wordsmithing that reflects your intent. I
think that's really important. That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's similar. I want to point out that nobody is insulting anybody here, and that's not
a necessary comment, and that I think that Director Guzman and Director Ruscha spent a lot of time and
put a lot of thought into this and that the rest of us would like to put the same amount of time and thought
into it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, two things. Just one on the 3-hour thing, when I would take the 0 to Union Station
to the FF1 to get to Boulder for school, on a snowy day, that takes more than 3 hours. It just does. And
that's one fare.
So secondly, to just the comments that have been made, I can understand and would agree that it is
offensive to tell someone who worked pretty hard on a series of amendments that it hasn't been duly thought
through. So I just-- language is important. And so that's that.
And I think the other side of it is, we all have had the same amount of time to consider the language. And
just because they chose to bring forward amendments, and other folks may or may not have, we've been
getting letters for a long time. It's not new. And it's not unprecedented for amendments to come at the
Board.
And so I appreciate what folks are saying. But I think the other reality is, everyone has had time to think
about these rules. And if you're just now interpreting the rules as we're looking at these amendments, then
maybe you didn't do the homework ahead of the Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I guess at the risk of looking like I haven't done my homework, with all due
respect, perhaps you're right, to the level of others. But we have had some discussions about postponing
very valid work to our committee to further look through these types of items. This one may be a moot point
in five months or whatever. But others may not.
So I guess my thought was to have these-- well, whichever ones we choose, perhaps this one-- be
postponed to the Operation and Safety Committee for further work. But with that thought in mind, we do
need to move forward with something tonight. We've heard it loud and clear. But I do respect the work, and
I expect the thoughtfulness of that. And I think it's worthy of more discussion with the committee later on.
And I don't know what that proposed date looks like, Madam Chair of the committee, or Madam Chair, or

our staff. But it's just a thought to get off center here and move along and not just cast these aside. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So OK, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with Director Whitmore. I, for one, spent 4 to 5 hours
reviewing all of this material, and I read every single comment that was written in our packet. And I think
we need to move forward. And I did do my homework, and I was quite comfortable with the Code of Conduct
as staff proposed the changes.
So I think what we're talking about here is that these several pages of amendments, we have not had the
same time to vet those amendments as some of us had to look at the initial staff proposal. And I think that's
where the concern is about the time, because I would have liked to have had more time to consider these
proposed amendments.
I think the quality is good. I really appreciate the rationale. But I just had to read them right before this
meeting. And I didn't even get all the way through it. So I think that's the concern, that we have not had time
to look at these amendments, because a lot of us did take the time to look at the staff proposals. And I, for
one, was very comfortable with the staff-proposed changes. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: How would we like to proceed? Would it be
LYNN GUISSINGER: Rather than-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Amenable to the Board-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, go ahead.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If I withdraw my motion, if somebody else would make a motion to move this to
committee so it can be worked on. And we will take these amendments there and do that work with the
committee to potentially bring them back what is worthy of being brought back so that it is thoughtfully
vetted-LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And entertained by everybody to move forward in a faster manner.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's great. And are you talking about all of the amendments, Director
Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I only made one here. But I think the next motion could be to move all of them to the
Safety and Operations Committee.
JACK KROLL: So if you are amenable to withdrawing your motion, we can go back to the staff changes as
amended along with Director Dishell's. I don't believe you need to make an additional motion to table these
items to the Performance-- or the Operations and Safety Committee because Director Williams has already
indicated her willingness to entertain all of those.

Should Director Williams decide that that's not the case, your other-- which I don't think she would. I'm just
going to outline your options here-- is that you would then need to initiate a three Director-initiated action
items through the Operations and Safety Committee, at which point then they would go on the agenda. My
recommendation is, if your motion is successfully-- if we're going to withdraw that motion. Now, Chair, if we
can agree that we would be then back to the original motion made by Director Williams that has been
amended by Director Dishell's amendment. At that point, as the Chair, you could choose to end the debate
by asking your colleagues to end the debate and call the question, which would require a 2/3 majority vote.
And then the question is called, and then you're voting immediately thereafter on simply just the Code of
Conduct amended-LYNN GUISSINGER: As amended by staff.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Director Dishell. So I think that's the best course of action here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I'd like to hear from Director Guzman and Director Ruscha. I think that
sounds like a course of action that will be supported. But I'd like to hear where you are.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I guess I'll go first. My dear peers, I am a new Director. Thank you. I've been reminded
of that almost every month. And it is not easy to catch up with all of you who have had more experience
and time doing this, because this is not the world I came from, nor the world I live in most of the time.
So I thank you in advance for your consideration in Operations and Safety. I also thank you for giving us
the time to try and be Directors, because this is not easy, OK? I now have to go back to my community and
answer for what I am about to do. And I am certain to be very disliked for this move. So I want to put that
on the record.
But I'm grateful for the opportunity to be able to come back and have a second chance at getting this right.
And as I learn, and as we learn, I appreciate you assigning us the grace of trying to do this and keep step
with all of you who have had much more practice. Therefore, I withdraw my amendment to this motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. I think a member cannot unilaterally withdraw. It has to be
done by unanimous consent. And that means if anyone objects, it cannot be withdrawn. And then you have
to go through the process of either laying on the table or postponing to a definite time or postponing
indefinitely, each of which are three separate motions governed by different rules.
And I don't want to anticipate that somebody will object to this. But it also begs the question that Executive
Manager of the Board brings up, which is, if this is, in fact, withdrawn, rather than either tabled or postponed,
it requires a new three-Director initiative to bring it before the Operations Committee. Therefore, speed
might be facilitated in this process if, in fact, we had a motion to lay on the table, which always sounds like
a death knell, but you can take up from the table, too, and then let that be considered by the Operations
Committee or postponed to a definite time for the Operations Committee. I just wanted to lay those
procedural options out there. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe-- and maybe Ms. Snyder or Mr. Crowe. But I believe that our Chair of the
Operations Committee can put it on the agenda and has agreed to do that, so that that's the point. You're
saying that he cannot withdraw his motion, is that-DOUG TISDALE: Except by unanimous consent. And I don't know if anyone is going to object to that.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that correct, Ms. Snyder? Or Jack? Everybody's looking it up. All right. Well, maybe
the easiest thing to do is to go for unanimous consent and do it that way. There are several other
amendments that I think Director Ruscha or Director Guzman was speaking of bringing. So those are still
out there. And I guess the question is, are you OK with this process? OK, you are recognized to speak,
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So it should be noted that, as Director Dishell said, we had
multiple emails from key constituency groups and constituents about the original proposed revisions back
in February. I understand and respect that staff went out and did a survey process and had some dialogue.
But none of those individual groups were ever offered a one-to-one meeting or a one-to-five meeting or a
one-to-ten meeting. And that is very different from how we previously changed our Code of Conduct when
key constituency groups raised concern.
Previously, we had ad hoc committees. Some Directors here were involved with them. We didn't do that
with this process. The process was, we had a survey that didn't specifically ask about the proposed
changes, but just about having a Code of Conduct in general. That survey, as it's been noted, was
disproportionately answered by folks who ride rail, who were disproportionately white and not necessarily
representative of our ridership as demonstrated in the ZIP code data that we got.
It is our obligation, it is our duty, to actually have debate on these issues. And while I respect consternation
regarding time and folks wanting to go home, it doesn't absolve us of that duty. Now, I had no less than 32
requests for amendments. I spent a long time trying to get consensus from multiple groups, RNOs, in and
out of my district to bring forth what I did today.
And even then, we were asked to take those amendments and pick five, or else they would be tabled or
shot down. So we picked five. I don't think it would be appropriate to send this to Safety and Operations.
This is a whole-Board exercise.
I could, however, as long as we were allowed to discuss the content, I would be amenable to tabling these
amendments to a future full Board meeting after some additional discussion and folks having time to sit on
it. That concludes my comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to be clear, this is not about getting home early. This is about Directors not being
handed 19 amendments, 18 amendments, as we're going into a meeting and being able to assess them.
And in terms of the suggestion about not having thoughtful analysis, I don't think that's directed at either of
you. I think people appreciate all the work you went into.
I have to say, I think there is merit. I haven't had a chance to read through most of these. But I see merit in
some of what I've seen. I just-- I think what you're hearing is people saying, this isn't the way we need to
be deciding it. We've had so much time to read through everything else. And the amendments just are
coming to us late. So that said, yes, Jack.
JACK KROLL: Oh, to get back to Director Tisdale's point, he is correct. So you can't withdraw a motion
without unanimous consent. However, it sounds like you probably don't have unanimous consent to
withdraw this. So at the conclusion of the discussion on this, my recommendation is you can have a vote.
And if it's voted down, it doesn't mean that it can't be reconsidered at the committee level. That's probably
the fastest way out of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We have two more in the line. We'll see Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to address the repeated comments about people who want to go home. Some
people come to the meeting on time. Some people don't. So if we're going to have that discussion, we're
going to have that discussion.
Secondly, I'm amenable to anything that anybody wants to do. I'm interested in reading these and
considering them. I'm going to move that we postpone the continuation of this meeting to give us time to
give these the work that Director Ruscha and Director Guzman and Director Dishell did with their
constituents who did not get to meet with our staff but did get to meet with them so that we can all digest
this the way it deserves.
And we can postpone this meeting for an hour and go-- there is that option, I believe, and go read this stuff
and digest it and then come back, and we can all discuss it. Is that something that we can do legitimately?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that there is merit to the idea of the motion to table and move this, since you're
open to taking it in the Operations and Safety Committee. That is open to all Board members. It will still
come back to the Board ultimately. So that may be the direction we want to go. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just a point, I'm not even sure what Amendment is currently on the table. Are we
asking to send this to Operations? Or are we asking to adopt these changes to the amendment on the wall.
And if I may, it is against this Board's rules and Robert's Rules of Order to levy insults at fellow Directors,
subject to censure. So let's, please, again, watch our language. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: So the motion currently on the floor here is to consider the amendment as edited above.
SPEAKER: The amendment to the amendment.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. So rather than motion to table, we just take a vote. Is that-JACK KROLL: Well, if someone wants to make a motion to table, that takes precedence over everything
else.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to call the question.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. The issue would be that if we make a motion to table at this point in time,
all we're doing is tabling the amendment to the amendment to the amendment, as opposed to if we go
through the process of voting and can vote down each of the subsidiary amendments, then we can proceed
to the main amendment to the main amendment motion to the main motion which I made. And that would
then take that particular Guzman Ruscha motion and put it before the Operations and Safety Committee's
table, which they can then vote to take up from the table, OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So Director Dishell has called the question. We need 10 votes to call and go
directly to the vote. Although there's nobody else in line, so I think if everybody's OK, we will go directly to
the vote. The first vote we are voting on is-JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, Madam-- Madam Chair, I'm sorry. I'm very grateful to Director Tisdale. I caught
one-third of that. Can we say that in layman's terms? Are we currently voting to take the amended
amendment or the original amendment to Operations and Safety?

LYNN GUISSINGER: We are currently voting on the language of their initial current bus or train, as I
understand it. That was the last-JOYANN RUSCHA: So is that the first vote we're taking?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It's just the language.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, it's the Rosenthal motion that we are voting on at this point to amend.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Then we will get after that to the Williams motion-- I'm sorry, to the-- yeah, no, the Williams
motion to amend, and then back to the Ruscha-Guzman motion to amend. So we have to vote through
each of those to get to the Guzman-Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the first one is the-SPEAKER: What's highlighted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's just their initial bus or train is that amendment. Is there anyone that
opposes-- wait, yeah, I guess I need to just call the role. Is there anyone in favor of this motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. We made the motion. We're in favor of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we're trying to-- I thought you wanted-- if the goal is to move this to a committee,
I think we want to vote these down. Is that-SPEAKER: All in favor.
All right. Is there anyone in favor of this motion? OK, see, no one-- that motion is-- the motion fails.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, there's one. There's one. There's mine.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of order. Can the Chair please when you say in favor of motion or whatever, what
motion are we talking about?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This one we were just saying, it was Director Rosenthal's motion that says, "their
initial bus or train."
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, did we vote on that? That's what I'm asking about.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, and then I have a comment as well. My concern is that we vote down this
amendment, then we vote down the bigger amendment, and then it reverts to the original read language,
including the stricken version. And then that would be voted on potentially to adopt.

And some may say I'm not going to send that. Some people could say, we're not going to send that to the
committee. Let's vote on it now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not hearing that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Some could say that. So that is my concern, is that we could have a switch at the end
to where our agreement is, let's send this to committee. But then what if it doesn't go to committee? Then
it's just adopted in a version that I don't support.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, if I could get another point of order. Director Guzman made a-- Director Guzman
offered to withdraw his amendment. That was not voted on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess if we-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Do you have unanimous consent on that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: The Chair would have to ask.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Can we have order?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, yeah. We're going to-- I guess we'll go back to that and see if we have
unanimous consent. I thought we were not hearing that. Director Guzman has made a motion to withdraw
his motion. And is there anyone opposed?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, just to clarify, because there was a lot of conversation after. As long as the
motion is just to withdraw the amendment, it's not to send it or table it for a date certain or uncertain. It's
simply to withdraw, then I do not object.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right, I hear no-- I'm kidding. [LAUGHS] All right.
DOUG TISDALE: And, Madam Chair, for the record, let me-LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear no objections to the motion to withdraw.
DOUG TISDALE: Unanimous consent that we suspend the rules to allow the withdrawal in that manner,
because ordinarily, you'd have to go up the ladder of motions. So if we can have unanimous consent to
suspend the rules and to allow the withdrawal of the motion as stated by Director Guzman and allowed by
Director Ruscha.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: That's what I would say. If we can ask that question now, if the Chair would ask, do we
have unanimous consent to do that.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have unanimous consent to suspend the rules and to allow Director Guzman
to withdraw his motion? Is there anyone opposed to that? Yeah. Thank you, Director Tisdale. All right. That
motion is withdrawn.
Now, we have a motion, Director Williams' motion, to adopt the changes that staff made to the original
motion. Are there other motions?
JACK KROLL: And Director Dishell's-LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell's motion adopted as well. Yeah. All right. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I would still like to go ahead and offer the other four amendments for
discussion. So if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So yes?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. So in your packet-- and these were accidentally misnumbered. But
it's amendment 4, the second amendment 4. It's related to harassment, sexual harassment, and bullying.
And please tell me if I'm out of order. Would it be an appropriate motion to adopt the language in the packet
that Directors have in front of them? Or would I need to read it in full?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's OK unless one of the Directors is requesting it be read in full.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. I agree completely with that. Can we just number these
pages so we can at least make a reference for the sake of the record so that people in the future know what
we were talking about?
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a handout, page 1, which says at the top, Director Dishell amendment. Then
there is-- on the second page of that same handout, it says Director Ruscha-Guzman amendments. Then
page 3 of that handout begins with-- or, I'm sorry, contains in the middle the words "amendment 3," boldface,
underlined, and highlighted. Then on page 4 of that document, there is the phrase "amendment 4" that
appears twice on that page, boldface, underlined, and highlighted.
Then the fifth page of that document begins with the words "proposed amendment" and has strike and
replace with and contains five paragraphs set forth in red. Then on page 6 of that same attachment, there
is a heading, "amendment 5," at the top of that page that is boldface, underlined, and highlighted.
Then on page 7 of that handout at the bottom of it, boldfaced, highlighted, and underlined is the phrase
"amendment 7." Then on page 8 of that document, there is a boldfaced, underlined, highlighted statement,
"amendment 8." That is page 8 of that document. Then on page 9, it says at the top, boldface, caps,
underlined, highlighted, "amendment 9."

Then on the next page, it says towards the bottom of that page, boldface, underline, caps, highlighted,
amendment 11. That is page 10 of the document. Then on page 11, it begins-- I'm sorry, it says in the
middle, "amendment 12," boldface, underlined, highlighted, caps. And then the next page is page 12, which
says at the top, "amendment 13" in the same format. And then the next page is 13, and the next page is
14. And that page 14 says at the top "amendment 17" in the same formatting as described heretofore. And
then the last page of that document has page 15 as relates to these rules.
Just for the sake of clarity, I understand Director Ruscha to be addressing now the language contained on
page 5 of this instrument, which is the second listed amendment 4. And it's the language that begins on
page 5 and is contained therein. That's my point of order and inquiry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair and Director Tisdale. So I'll go ahead into the rationale for
this proposed amendment. This amendment, to be very clear, does not in any way weaken the proposed
rules regarding harassment, bullying, sexual harassment, or any other conduct based on a protected class.
So the first point is that offensive behavior in the proposed staff rule is not defined in the original rule
proposal. And that was raised by a handful of groups, including the ACLU. Bullying is actually not quite
defined. And I think bullying is-- it is not even something we could even look to statute to get some ideas
on what the definition of bullying is. But I think if we clearly define harassment, whether it is or is not based
on a protected class, we effectively capture bullying.
So the amendment clearly states that the behavior that we won't permit and the standard that behavior
becomes unreasonable, and thus a violation of the rule. We did separate-- and, again, this was based on
an extraordinary amount of feedback-- general harassment from hate speech, just in the paragraphs for
clarity. It doesn't remove one or the other.
And then to provide the expansion of the greatest possible protections for riders and our staff, we included
gender expression, ancestry, and the phrase, "real or perceived," because a person could make a slur
based on someone else's perceived protected status. That's something we generally recognize in a civil
procedure or employment law or any other areas, which I think a lot of this original language was borrowed
from. So, again, this is intended to, I think, meet staff's intent.
And then we also, in this revision, we capture what we believe to be the one-time incidents and removes
the severe or pervasive standard that we think is written in the current proposal. So "severe and pervasive"
generally means that somebody has to continuously harass you, even if their initial offending language or
conduct was severe. And so with that, you have the language before you. And I would welcome any
conversation or follow up on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion as written here from Director Ruscha. Do we have a second?
OK. Not hearing a second. I think, Director Ruscha, that what this means is people would like to go to have
more time with it and take it back to the Operations and Safety Committee so that we have a chance to
really understand these.
We are at the-- back to the Director Williams motion. I guess-SPEAKER: Right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to call the question?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have a request to call the question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: What are we-- I'm sorry. Are you asking to end debate and amendments? Is that what
we're doing?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think the calling the question ends debate and goes to the vote on that amendment.
And what that would do is put all the rest of the amendments-- proposed amendments into Director Williams'
agreement to take those up as the Operations and Safety Committee.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So we can't have two motions at once. Are you asking to call the question and the
debate and vote on this? Or are you making two amendments, which would send anything else to
Operations?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think your amendment didn't get a second, so it has died. So it's back to-PEGGY CATLIN: So I'm calling the question on Kate's original motion to adopt the staff-recommended
amendments to the Code of Conduct as amended by Director Dishell.
JACK KROLL: So that would now require-- is there a second to call the question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
JACK KROLL: OK. So now that's immediately-- it's immediately you have to vote on it. And it requires 10
votes to pass.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. OK, I will call the roll. The motion as moved by Director Catlin and seconded
by Director Rosenthal is to call the question of the Director Williams motion, as amended by Director
Dishell's motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. For a procedural motion, I think you can just take a show
of hands.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All in favor of calling the question at this point?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Chair, since I'm not there to raise my hand, I'm in favor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you, Erik. All right. Do I see-- I see no votes from Director Dishell and
Director-JACK KROLL: Ruscha and Guzman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, Guzman is raising his hand. So there are 12 yes votes, 2 no votes. And, again,
this is not the end of your amendments. I appreciate-- I think everybody appreciates the work you've put
into it. It looks like there's some merit here. It's just hard to take on a lot of new amendments before we
have a chance to look at them.

So all right, we have called the vote. This is Director Williams' motion, seconded by Director Buzek-- no-yeah? Who seconded that motion?
JACK KROLL: Who seconded Kate's motion?
SPEAKER: My [INAUDIBLE] yesterday.
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you want to talk? We just called the question?
SPEAKER: I don't remember.
VINCE BUZEK: I don't remember. It could have been me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Tisdale. Seconded by Tisdale and amended by Director Dishell's motion. I think
I'll call the roll on this one. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yep.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- oh, Hardwick's not here. Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, I'm just-- Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. We have 2 nos, 1 absent, and 12 yeses. So the motion passes. The
Code of Conduct as amended by the staff and as amended by Director Dishell passes, and these
amendments will be taken up separately by the Operations-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Now we're on to the main motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: The main motion was the original motion that I made to adopt the Code of Conduct. It
was then amended by Director Williams' motion to incorporate the staff changes. And that motion was
amended by Director Dishell to do a tweak on one particular section. And so now we're back to the main
motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The main motion is to adopt-DOUG TISDALE: And it is appropriate to have that. And I would suggest the absence of debate on the main
motion being desired by the body.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Did you want to speak right now? OK. Does anyone else want to speak? Or
can we move to a vote on the main motion? The main motion is to adopt the Code of Conduct as amended.
OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to say that based on so many of the comments that were written and also
the comments that we received tonight from the public, I think it's really important that we do adopt

something to give our staff some teeth to move forward and be able to enforce some of this stuff. I just think
it's very important that we give them something with which to move forward. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that we failed to do our duty in even having
discussion. Clearly, again, we had pretty considerable feedback from key constituency groups. And that
also included some staff. So I regret I wasn't able to even present ideas for us to discuss, because public
policy is for this boardroom.
But for whatever it's worth, one of the amendments I wanted to bring forth was to expressly prohibit open
drug use, which is not currently a rule. But we've closed debate, so I guess we'll talk about it in Safety.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. I will call the roll. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Hardwick-- oh, sorry. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Guissinger, I am a yes. There are one absent, one no vote, which is Director
Ruscha, and the other 13 all yes votes on the Code of Conduct as amended. Thank you.
SPEAKER: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SPEAKER: Can we take a break for just a moment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. We're dealing with some odd video Zoom thing. If we take a break here, is that
good? OK. 10 minutes, is that enough for you all? Is that enough for everybody? 10 minutes, OK.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

