Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 1 of 6
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

April 13, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, April 13, 2010 at 5:32 p.m.

Special Board Meeting
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.
I.

Roll Call
Thirteen (13) Board members were present for roll call. Director Brohl arrived late and
Director Martinez was absent.

II.

Public Participation: Comments on Putting FasTracks on 2010 Ballot
Chair Kemp opened up public participation by sharing the RTD Board planned to make a
decision about going to the ballot in 2010 on FasTracks; however, before we do this,
we want to hear from our constituents, stakeholders and members of the regional
community on this issue. He began by reading aloud two letters that had been received
from elected officials:




Letter from Honorable Mayor Murphy, Lakewood, and also Chair of the Metro
Mayors Caucus—a summation from this letter states that in his opinion, 2010 is
not the year to seek the tax increase for FasTracks. A copy of this complete
letter is available with the special Board meeting minutes in the Board office.
Letter from City of Arvada, William A. Ray Jr, Deputy City Manager—This letter
also states that while supporting the full build out of FasTracks, the City of
Arvada does not believe 2010 is the year to ask for a tax increase. A copy of
this complete letter is available with the special Board meeting minutes in the
Board office.

Chair Kemp then opened the meeting up for public comments.
Ira Schreiber representing Colorail stated they are 100% behind FasTracks and had
done a yeomen’s job in 2004 to help get it passed. However, this is not the time; the
planets are not aligned. RTD needs to defer to a more appropriate time.
Gene Putnam, Transportation Manager for the City of Thornton, stated that the City of
Thornton wants to see FasTracks finished and especially before the projected 2042
year if no sales tax increase. He urged the Board to make a decision one way or the

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 2 of 6

other so that collectively we can work together to educate the public and get
FasTracks done. The Board needs to be definitive on a date-if not 2010, then when?
John Huggins representing the Coalition for Smart Transit referenced the resolution
adopted by this committee that stated conditions for a FasTracks funding increase (a
copy available in the special Board meeting minutes located in the Board office). He
referenced specifically the three indentified on the resolution that called for:
 The Coalition would have to be confident based on additional polling and focus
group information that it is an appropriate time for RTD to have an election on
FasTracks funding.
 The Coalition would have to be confident in the community’s ability to raise the
funds needed for such a campaign.
 RTD would have to have secured, or the Coalition would have to be very
confident in RTD’s ability to secure the expected federal funding for RTD’s
Eagle Project; and the Coalition would have to be convinced that RTD had
exhaustively pursued all other potential sources of funding before asking the
voters for a funding increase.
Based on the fact that these three conditions have not been met, the Coalition does not
support going to the ballot in 2010.
Chair Kemp recognized and acknowledged John Huggins as a friend of transit who
works tirelessly behind the scenes.
Jack McCroskey, former Board member, shared his perspective that until RTD cleans
up their act, they should not consider going to the voters. He expressed that
FasTracks was doomed from the beginning.
Miller Hudson, 2001 Executive Director of I-70 Corridor, shared some similar
experiences in working with focus groups to determine the timing for getting voters to
approve their project. He stated that the voters know it is needed; it is just not
economically feasible to do right now so he says no to the 2010 ballot.
Kathleen Osher, Transit Alliance Executive Director, stated that the Alliance supports
realistic and expeditious completion of FasTracks. She stated the Board could benefit
from lessons learned in the 2004 election and stated they have over 300 graduates
who are poised to help the community understand the benefits of transit. They can be
a voice when the right proposal and time are determined.
Helen Bushnell from Lakewood expressed concerns about if a tax increase can pass.
She raised the question is RTD using current funds in the most efficient way possible.
She sees problems that the current Board does not appear too concerned about. She
stated if you cannot fix bus, you cannot fix rail.

State Representative Jim Kerr indicated that as a member of the Legislature, they will
be watching the progress of RTD to fix some of the problems identified in the state
audit findings. In light of the former General Manager compensation and other mishaps,

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 3 of 6

RTD is facing a dilemma about improving its public image. He believes the issues of
transparency will be resolved. Relative to the question is now the time to go to the
ballot, he thinks RTD is on the right path. The region definitely needs some form of
transit system. RTD needs to take this time to regroup but not go to the ballot in
2010.
Adam Gardner stated he was not a fan of FasTracks in its present form. It needs an
overhaul of its major policies and the opinion polls should not play a role in the decision
to go to the ballot. However, putting FasTracks on the ballot in 2010 provides a third
option for the voters to reject and demand changes/cleanup before any approval for
funds. RTD needs to redesign FasTracks to be economically feasible.
Dan Burkin who identified himself as the taxpayer who pays the freight and calls the
shot, referenced an article in The Denver Daily News of a statement made by Chair
Kemp about being diligent and now wanting to hear from the taxpayers. He stated the
Chair had it wrong. The taxpayers should be heard first. He also stated that the RTD
current record and how we have handled things do not give him confidence that going
out for a tax increase will solve the matter. He is looking for date certain when RTD
will present the exact amount they are asking, and stick to this. He pays the freight,
he calls the shot.
III.

Recommendation from CAC Committee
Melvin Bush, a member of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee and former co-chair,
shared that the committee had held a special meeting earlier in the day to discuss the
issue of whether RTD should go to the ballot in 2010. While the committee did not
come up with a consensus, the committee does support the Board fully on going out
for a tax increase. They were just split between which year to go. He also noted there
are lots of stakeholders committed to moving forward such as the TOD investors and
others concerned about jobs in the community. It is a matter of economics. If it is not
done this year, it will cost an additional $100 million every year. FasTracks will
reinvigorate the community by bringing jobs and increasing revenue and sales. The CAC
supports the Board in their decision for moving forward.
A copy of the letter from the CAC Committee is available with the special board
minutes located in the Board office.

IV.

Recommended Action: Resolution on FasTracks for 2010 Ballot
Chair Kemp requested Maria Garcia Berry, CRL Consultant, to provide an abbreviated
synopsis of her finding from a survey. Maria provided a risk analysis from these
findings;
 In the last polling of March 2010, public transit and transportation congestion
appeared at the bottom list of concerns from the voters, specifically public
transit at 6% and congestion at 3%. This raises the question if people consider
public transit a necessity or luxury.
 Approximately 56% of the voters believe the economy will improve a little over
the next year but overall there is measured optimism.
 Approximately 49% of those polled indicate they are having some difficulty
keeping up with their bills.
 From a good news perspective, 61% expressed familiarity with FasTracks.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 4 of 6





Overall 77% feels good about FasTracks and do not have any buyer’s remorse.
FasTracks is the right decision for this region.
Relative to the test for going to the ballot, 50% is for and 48% against. This is
a small margin considering the margin of error and the difference between these
numbers in 2004.
Approximately 64% do not feel the vote would pass if RTD went to the ballot in
2010.

A copy of the presentation is included with the special board meeting minutes located
in the Board office.
Resolution to go to ballot on FasTracks in 2010
Motion:
Director McMullen made the motion to approve the resolution to
go to the ballot in 2010.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director O’Boyle says the emotional side of him says go to the
ballot in 2010. However, his brain tells him this is not a smart
move so he will be voting no to this resolution.
Director McMullen concurs but says FasTracks has so much
working for it now—West Corridor, hopefully the East corridor to
DIA, Denver Union Station, and a host of other activities and
construction all focusing around jobs and stimulating this
economy. He too will vote no.
Director Tayer shared there are lots of attractive reasons for
going to the voters in 2010. He cited the need to stimulate the
economy, and the perspective for significant cost savings.
However, these are challenging times for our economy and
constituents—this is not the right time for the voters.

Vote on
Motion:

The vote failed with 14 electronic votes against going to the
ballot in 2010.
Chair Kemp declared this action FAILED Unanimously.

Chair Kemp stated he would entertain another motion to prepare for future FasTracks
ballot plans. Director Tayer shared his resolution for a commitment to path forward
which gives the considerations for going to the ballot in 2011 or some date in the
future. He acknowledged the hard work of reviewers of this resolution such as Marla
Lien, General Counsel, Directors Busck, Christopher and Chair Kemp. He also
acknowledged the last minute edits by Director O’Boyle on the redlined copy that the
Board members were given. Director O’Boyle emphasized that the Board will work on
and bring to the taxpayers and constituents the most successful campaign for

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 5 of 6

FasTracks at the appropriate time.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve the resolution titled
Future FasTracks Ballot Question, Commitment to Path Forward.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
Director Christopher requested a reading aloud of the section of
the resolution beginning with “Now therefore be it resolved…”
Director Tayer read it aloud.

Discussion:

Director Busck thanked everyone who had come to provide
public comments and who has worked hard on this issue. It is
not an easy decision for the Board to decide not to go in 2010.
The people in his District simply cannot afford to go right now.
This is a ballot issue. The Board is tasked that even if they don’t
go to the ballot now, they need to keep their fingers on the pulse
of the community and be ready to go when appropriate. They
will take a hard look at 2011 or whenever to make that decision.
Director Christopher thanked Director Tayer for his leadership in
putting this alternative resolution together. RTD has only one
bite of the apple to do it right. The Board should pay attention to
the polling results and place this on the ballot when it is more
conducive and has a chance to be successful.

Vote on
Motion:

The vote passed with 14 electronic votes for and 0 against.
Director Martinez was absent.
Chair Kemp declared this action PASSED Unanimously.
The approved copy of this resolution is included with these
minutes.

Resolution 004
Future FasTracks Ballot Question Commitment to Path Forward.pdf

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m. to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 13, 2010
Page 6 of 6

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

