2020-07-28
RTD Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. I would like to call the Denver RTD Special Study
Session to order. It is July 28 and I have 5:31 PM. And before I start, I'd like to just say something,
which is that I have received several phone calls from board members regarding the Allied
contract. I have talked to Mr. Ballard, our General Counsel, and Mr. Meader. And I would like to
turn it over to our General Counsel. Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Yeah. Yeah. [ELECTRONIC ECHO]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have a lot of reverberation.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes,
I understand there are questions around the Allied Security contract and also potentially some
issues regarding the delegation authority. And I think what I would recommend is that I work with
you, Madam Chair, and Mr. Ballard to get that added to an agenda at a later date so that we can
have a conversation about that and get you the information that you need.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much, Madam Counsel. OK. With that, I'm going
to turn it over to the safety management system component, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer. Excuse me. May I? OK. OK. Thank you very much. Tonight, we've got-- excuse me.
One of our SMS consultants who has come here to provide a brief presentation to the Board
regarding our efforts to develop the safety management system and give you a briefing on one
element of that. And that is the leadership instruments, kind of a status on where we stand right
now and then give you an opportunity to ask Lurae Stuart, who is with WSP. And then begin the
briefing. Lurae.
LURAE STUART: Thank you. Good afternoon, all of you. My name is Lurae Stuart. I work for
WSP, a part of the Vital Insurance WSP team supporting Mike Meader and Dan McClain and their
safety management system.
Thank you for having us, Madam Chair and directors. What I'd like to do is go through this
PowerPoint quickly. And I would ask, if possible, if you would hold questions till the end. But if
they're burning and you want to stop me, I will absolutely stop and try to address any questions
along the way. But to save time, it would be easier if we could address the questions at the end.

So with that, I will start this presentation. Before we get too far, I want to give everybody some
key definitions of terms that I'll be using so that we're all on the same page. When I talk about safe
and safety, we're talking about unintentional harm. So slip, trips, and falls, a car accident. When
we talk about security, we're talking intentional harm. So somebody means to do harm to people
or the system. Hazards are those real or potential conditions that can cause injury. So we talk about
hazardous conditions, it could be a real thing or it could be a potential for that to happen.
Safety risk is a term that is looking at how often or how frequent something might happen and how
bad that thing might be. So when you assess safety risk, that's different. And I noticed that several
of you come from a legal background. That's not the same as a liability risk. Safety risk, you never
can give away. You as a board, you as RTD, safety risk always belongs to the agency. And it is a
measure of how much risk you're facing related to different hazards or conditions.
And the last two terms are very important because they help define how much risk an agency wants
to take on. When you talk about a tolerable condition, you're not saying it's risk free. You're just
saying you've made an assessment that you can live with the outcomes because the benefits you're
going to see justify that that acceptance of risk that exists. When I talk about acceptable risk, that
says you've made a decision to do no further mitigation, at least at this time. Again, it is not using
the liability sense of risk. It's using safety and security risk, which happens to be defined as harm
to the system or harm to people. We can't undo once we've done harm. We can satisfy the liability
piece, but we can't undo the activity.
So we've assessed, as part of our evaluation of your safety management systems, where you
currently are in this, what we call this scheme of moving through the safety management maturity
process. And currently, you're not quite at coping. And don't get too upset about this. This is a
normal place for most transit across the United States. We're early in this SMS process adoption.
But we'd really like to see RTD move to this level three, which is consistent application of SMS.
Above level 3 is a long haul. Those are time and experience moving past that. So just getting to
level 3, that systematic approach to management of safety risk, is a good achievement to be looking
at as a goal.
For that to happen for RTD, we need you. SMS needs you. You are part of the execution of SMS
in Denver. You need to understand and support the vision and embrace your responsibilities and
understand the expectations. We provided a video link for you. And I'm hoping some, if not all of
you got to see that. It's a Metrolink video, a message from the Board in California. If you haven't
seen that, I am going to talk about a little bit further. But it's a very powerful video that I would
encourage you to look at at some point.
So safety management systems is a process and a concept that FDA has applied to transit in the
United States. And they did it as they looked at safety performance and how safety performance
was not trending in the right direction. Over time, we were not becoming more safe. We were
actually having more accidents. As you see across the different types of transit and rail, the
distribution of fatalities and accidents isn't equal and it's a little overrepresented if you only look
at fatalities in heavy rail. But when you standardize that by revenue mile, this is kind of the picture.
But it's not good. We should be safer than this.

This all started when we started looking at what was happening across the system. And in 2009,
within the space of two months, these three accidents happened. And there were fatalities. There
were multiple injuries. There was a lot of damage. And a lot of us that were in transit safety and
security were saying, what is going on? Why are we not becoming safer?
And our question to you and our question to Dan and Mike as we looked at some of this is, we're
a little concerned that RTD could be part of that story and that you might be closing in on a big
event. And that you, as the Board, can be part of taking some role and some changes that might
make the picture different for Denver RTD Transit.
So safety management systems it's just an organized set of principles and programs that is overlaid
on system safety. And the term ALARP, as low as reasonably practicable, is very critical in transit
because we don't have all the resources. We have to determine where and what is enough. So we
look at safety and we determine, where do we need to spend those resources and how.
When we've talked to staff at RTD and we were visiting just before COVID hit the industry and
hit the United States, we asked them to assess where they believed RTD was in the implementation
of safety management systems and where they were compared to the transit industry. And as you
can see by the graphic on the slide, you're lagging behind the industry generally, in your
application. It varies and it depends on resources. And it also depends on where you are in your
maturity as an agency. RTD has had tremendous growth. With growth comes change, and that is
indicative of things that you need to catch up with.
So going back, what is safety? What are we talking about? Is it zero accidents? Zero incidents? Is
it, you don't have safety concerns? Are you having perfect employee performance? Are you just
complying with regulation?
Well, a lot of traditional safety thinking looked at accidents and incidents and focused in on what
and who and how. But we didn't and weren't very good at looking at why. We need to examine
closer some of the concepts of what happens in these accidents and what's the role of the
organization. How does human performance play a role? And what does practical drift mean when
it comes to a transit and transit safety?
Responsibility is applied to everyone from the board all the way down to the person that cleans
the buses or the trains. It can't be implemented by safety. And that's what safety management
systems is all about.
When we talk about a model of accident causation, we start with the organization. What are the
organizational processes that are pushing and driving the agency towards certain goals? And then,
what are the working place conditions that support those or influence how people work for that
organization and in those conditions? Then we add people. And people come with certain frailties.
We make errors. We violate principles. Sometimes we don't do everything right.
So what do we do? We put up a lot of defenses. We train people. We put technology into place.
We pass regulation. But still, sometimes things break through. I liken this to a game of soccer
where the goal in the back of the net is not the cause or the fault of the goalie. There were 10 other

people on that playing field that contributed. In fact, there were 22 other people on that playing
field that contributed to that goal. And sometimes, we just stop and we say, only that person that
had the ball or only the goalie that missed the ball, those were the causes. And that's not really
what's happening.
We call these things latent conditions, and they participate in making something available for a
breakthrough. Part of that is organizational failure. And we should be looking every time to how
does the organization fail our frontline employees or our frontline people.
Take a quick minute to remember your R line derailment. It happened at South Sable Boulevard
and East Exposition Avenue. You had a derailment as a train was going too fast around the 90
degree curve. You had a very serious injury of a passenger thrown from the train. And then you
had others injured.
And we know that the light rail operators are trained to slow their trains when approaching this
sharp curve-- excuse me, turns. But what other things might have been happening at that time?
What were the other processes and workplace conditions that might have contributed? What were
the defenses that didn't work? What were active failures? There's more to the story than just what
the operator did or did not do.
So the bottom line is, we really need to be thinking at a bigger and a wider look at what causes
accidents. They're not just caused by individuals. We have to focus from the individual to the
organization and understand errors in the context of these service delivery demands. People are
the solution. They are not the problem.
I want to play a very short video here of Sidney Dekker as he talks about people in production and
trade offs.
SIDNEY DEKKER: My name is Sidney Dekker. I'm a professor at Griffith University. And for
the past 20 years, I have studied why things go wrong, why a patient dies of a medication overdose
in a hospital, for example, why an airliner crashes.
So why do things go wrong? Well, we used to believe that things go wrong because somebody
makes an error or something breaks. Today, however, we believe and we have since the mid to
late 1980s that things go wrong because lots of things, lots of little things, larger things inside the
organization are wrong, have been wrong for a long time. These are things related to procedures,
culture, design of equipment, supervision, work practices. And all these things can combine to
create the potential for an accident.
Now, this has been an extraordinarily empowering idea. It has shifted the focus upstream to the
systems surrounding the work that people do. We now expect organizations to have vast systems
in place that are all supposed to look for these holes, these little wrongs, and fix them before they
can combine to create trouble.
The risk becomes that we invest in safety work that focuses on the higher frequency but lower
consequence events, such as people not wearing their safety glasses or having their coffee in a cup

without a lid on it. And that we then mistake low counts on those things as a statement of the
general safety health of the process or operation as a whole.
So we used to know that we were safe if we had competent managers and people at the sharp end
who knew what they were doing. How do we know whether we're safe today? We have the
paperwork to show that we are. And then we blow stuff up.
How did we end up here? Here is how. We still see people as the problem. We believe that as long
as we have great systems in place and that people conform and stay within the narrow bandwidth
that we have assigned to them, things will be OK. But this is an illusion. And it is increasingly a
dead end. People are not the problem we need to control. People are the solution that we should
harness.
LURAE STUART: So at RTD, we want to harness the potential of the staff and the potential even
at the Board level to make things go right. I want to speak a little bit about this concept of practical
drift.
At practical drift, we start off an operation and we have it designed and engineered in a certain
way. And then reality hits and over time, we drift away from how that task was engineered or
designed. It becomes uncoupled. And there are a lot of reasons for this to happen, and some of
them aren't even bad reasons. This is where we get a lot of new ideas. But a lot of times, we don't
understand that and we want to harness those employees who are thinking outside the box, because
they're not following exactly the procedure as written. And we don't quite understand why. So
another short video that will illustrate this.
VIDEO SPEAKER 1: What's the fine?
VIDEO SPEAKER 2: You're a bicyclist so it's anywhere from $10 up to $130 [AUDIO OUT].
But it's a bicycle summons. A bicycle summons is for not riding in the bicycle lane.
VIDEO SPEAKER 1: You know-VIDEO SPEAKER 2: red light-[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
SPEAKER 1: So I had a ticket for not riding in the bike lane. But often, there are obstructions that
keep you from probably riding in the bike lane.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
LURAE STUART: So you get the concept, that sometimes, the procedure or the process isn't
always the optimal solution. And sometimes we put our employees into a position where they have
to make and use priorities for making decisions that actually contrast with each other. We want
them to balance safety and security, but we also want them to make the current operation

functional. And yet, you want to expand the system. But you also have to maintain and manage all
the infrastructure.
And when they search to do this, sometimes the outcome is not optimal. And sometimes they come
up with great solutions but we're not always listening.
So back to my original question of what is safety. Safety not the absence of accidents. Safety is
the presence of the right mitigation, the right defenses. So what we need your help in doing is
keeping failure from being successful. Because safety doesn't happen by accident. Human activity
is never free from risk. By allowing people on transit, we engage in risk.
But human error is just the beginning of the investigation and not the end. We should be looking
at organizational failure every time, to make sure we didn't fail the individual. SMS is all about
putting processes in place to help with that.
So I want to walk quickly through the requirements for SMS and talk a little bit about your role
and where we could use your input. The first place is safety management policy. So RTD has a
safety management policy. They've defined this. It supports the roles and responsibilities. It
provides direction for risk management and assurance and promotion. And it sets up the
coordination with security and emergency management.
Part of this is a commitment to safety resources, a place where the Board can be helpful. This is
also a proactive identification of hazards and risks, understanding what's happening on your system
and asking about that before it comes to a place where you're asking about an accident or an
incident. It's also fostering a safety culture.
So the Board is part of these responsibilities and accountabilities, along with the accountable
executive, which is your GM, the SMS manager, which is Mike and Dan, and key personnel which
support the system.
So the Board of Directors sits at the top of this structure. And what are their roles? Well, we're
asking that you embrace safety as an RTD value. Originally, I had this as a priority. And we had a
very long discussion about priority versus value. And a value stays. Priorities sometimes change.
We think that a role for you is also to hold the agency accountable for safety. Ask questions, see
the data, understand what's happening, provide resources for safety. Currently, your accountable
executive, Paul Ballard, is that accountable executive that has to make them available if there's a
need. But he needs your support.
And then finally, you need to understand your leadership role at RTD around safety. And I'm
referencing that Metrolink video again. It's a very powerful statement about the Metrolink Board
in California right after a tragic accident on their system where board members met with families
of people that were killed on the system. They met with families of people that were injured. They
were at the accident site.
And they talk about the before, the profound impact it had to them as understanding their role to
embrace safety, that sitting on the board of directors was not just something they did on an interim

or on a basis where they showed up occasionally. It was a commitment. And they asked for that
commitment. So if you haven't seen the video, I would ask that you take a look at that video.
Obviously, the senior leadership team has a lot of accountability and requirements within this
process. They've signed the SMS as policy and the statement plan. They have to monitor that the
performance is happening and provide strategic direction.
At RTD, like many systems, security and emergency management is both also under your SMS
manager, Mike Meader, in your case. And that's good. That means that these are coordinated
systems. And when something happens, the response will be coordinated. That means Mike, in his
role as pulling this all together, also needs support to make sure that, whether it's COVID or
whether it's another situation, that the processes are supported and integrated.
It is key under the SMS requirements that FTA handed out that the activities that RTD take related
to SMS are documented and that documentation is sufficient to show that you're moving in this
process. FTA says, if it's not documented, it didn't happen. Your staff know that well. But you
should also know that.
Key to SMS is understanding and managing the risks that RTD is faced with. Part of that is not
only identifying and evaluating the risks and then prioritizing and implementing, but you have to
have methodologies which give you a consistent look at risk. And you have to have a process that
defines what risk acceptability is for RTD. You as a Board should understand what that is. And I
have said that I noticed several of you were attorneys. If you don't know what the risk acceptability
criteria is for your agency, you may want to ask that question.
It is not defined by the industry. It is something that is left in the hands of individual agencies. But
it does refer to this level of risk to where you believe, as a group, that further risk reduction or
measures or additional resources will not result in a significant reduction. It is a personal to RTD
decision. And it's defined in your risk management process. If you don't know how that's defined,
if you're not sure, you might want to ask those questions.
It is key to remember that residual risk still remains. You never completely get rid of risk around
running transit in an environment like Denver or any environment, actually.
So your team, your safety team, have defined a process. This is a matrices that they use to evaluate
risk. It's one that they were considering. I know that they continually look at this. But the only way
to know what your risk is, is to evaluate it before things happen. To do that, you have to have staff
that are willing to look and identify those hazards.
One of the key issues is that for every big accident that happens, there are lots of little incidents
and latent conditions that go without being evaluated. And we don't always pay attention to them.
And then things happen. And a lot of that is that practical drift, where we allow things to move
along at a pace and we don't take them seriously or consider all of the pieces. But we need to be
paying attention to the small things so we can minimize the big things.

Evaluating risk is just that. How much risk is there, and do we own what's left? We need to have
ownership of the risk. And you need to provide oversight that the safety risk activities are sufficient
to manage the risk that RTD has. Excuse me.
Part of that is using the safety assurance process. The safety assurance process helps us
continuously verify that what we think is happening out there is happening against the objectives
that we've set, the targets that we've developed. It provides data and information. These are the
types of activities that could be shown to the Board on a regular basis to evaluate whether your
risk targets are being met. We also have to evaluate change and continuous improvement.
When we talk about risk management-- that's this left side of this slide, which talks about
evaluating those hazards. But once you start monitoring and measuring, that's that assurance
process that tells you, you are where you want to be or perhaps you're not where you want to be.
So it's very critical that safety assurance, which really wasn't a big piece of system safety
previously, is implemented and is very strong in your agency.
It's very hard to make progress if you don't know where you are. And that is part of the monitoring
and measuring. We need to know and the Board needs to know what's happening on the ground.
The executives need to know what's happening on the ground. One of the things we were surprised
about was the lack of data that we would have expected at RTD. Now, your current safety and
security team are rectifying that. They're gathering data. They're doing analysis. But that data is
critical to know where you are going and whether you're meeting your goals.
RTD put together some key performance indicators. On the screen are some of these indicators
that they were looking at. These are things that you should be asking about, asking to be reported
on. These are things that will have to be reported to FTA. It's a good thing to know where you are
so you can make progress in your goal of becoming more mature in SMS. But we need to achieve
these. And to do that, we need people that are invested.
I mentioned some of the data that was being pulled. If you look at your total accidents over time,
you can see that in 2019, things weren't necessarily getting better. They were actually a little bit of
mixed reviews. And to us, this was indicative of things that we saw across some of your system
that caused us concern. So again, just a snapshot. This was current when we were going to show
you this briefing in March. It's a little stale. But it's a thing to be monitored. It's something you
should be asking about.
RTD has a lot of changes you introduce new systems. You have new contractors in and out. You
need to be monitoring the changes to make sure they're not introducing new hazards. You have a
team to do that. You should ask how that's being done every time new changes come to your
system.
And we should also strive to be better. That improvement in SMS maturity is something that every
agency in the United States is now trying to work on their journey. And it is a journey. Even though
it sounds like the three was only midway to what was shown on that original screen as a five, being
a mature system, three is a very good target. Three is where you need to be to be a functional
agency. And the other pieces will come with time.

The last piece of SMS is safety promotion. And that involves both the communication and
competencies and training. These are setting the tone for safety culture within the agency.
Safety culture is another thing that we heard from several of your employees that they felt was not
where they wanted it to be. They did not feel that there was a just and a flexible safety culture
going on. It's a piece that I know Mike and Dan are paying attention to. But it must be embraced
at a higher level than just the safety team.
Safety communication has to happen with open communication without reprisal. They have to be
free to speak up when they see something. They have to be willing to provide that safety critical
information of things that they've seen or the hazards that they're concerned about. And the agency
needs to communicate back to your people what's happening around those activities and those
items. Communication is the key to making changes.
The other key is training incompetency. We do a lot of training. We offer a lot of information. But
that doesn't necessarily mean the people are becoming competent, that they can apply those skills.
Sometimes there are so many things happening, so many pieces of information flowing, that we
hear a lot but we never develop that competency.
So we need to strive for competency, making sure our employees are competent. For SMS, we
have some competencies that we would like to see developed. For all employees, we need them to
understand how they should be performing their tasks safely. They should be demonstrating
competency as they do those. And they should we be reporting any safety concerns that they have.
Managers and supervisors, they should be preparing and analyzing the safety data, extracting
information and trending. And they should be encouraging their people to report hazards as they
see them. For senior management and for the Board, you need to be the strategic piece of this
organization where you're asking about the goals. You're asking about the metrics and the
reporting. And you're part of fostering that culture of safety where people feel safe about telling
you not just the good news, but things that aren't working as well as we hoped, and that they need
to try new things.
So bottom line, how will you contribute? I guess I have three questions for you. Where do you
believe RTD is in the SMS journey? We asked staff, but I'm curious what you think about this
journey. What do you believe the Board's role is in moving this forward? And lastly, this is what
we gathered from staff, this disconnect between the perception that RTD was a safe agency and
the reality where people didn't feel is safe and didn't feel the safety culture was embracing them.
So with that, I will complete my presentation and open up to questions or comments or discussion.
I would let you know, I have two of my associates on the phone, Kevin Chandler from Vital
Insurance and Harry Saporta from Vital Insurance also available to help answer questions. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much for that presentation. Are there any questions
from any Board members? OK. I'm looking to see if there was any hands raised. And I don't see
any. All right. So thank you so very much for that presentation. I do think that the video was quite

sobering and really made me think about our role as Board members in making sure that everybody
is safe getting to and from where they need to get to.
But I thank you for this. And I would ask any Board members, if they would like to respond to any
of these questions, just to send them forward to Miss McManus to get to the safety group. Thank
you.
LURAE STUART: Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: With that, I'd like to turn it over to Miss McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. I'm going to share my screen, hopefully, here. Hold on one second.
And it takes just a second to bring it up. Can you guys see it yet?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Not yet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. Let me try that again. It says it is sharing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you see it, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I don't, either.
ROGER SHERMAN: Heather, have you clicked on that screen on your desktop? Once you share,
you've got to make sure you click the right screen.
Heather, I'm showing you muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I'm also showing Heather muted and no video.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. Oh, there she's back. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry. It kicked me all the way out. So I had to start all the way from
scratch to get back in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So let me see if it'll let me do that this time here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there it goes. Yes. Perfect.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. So sorry about that. I just-- knocked me all the way out. So all right.
So tonight, really the focus of tonight is to talk about the forecast that we received recently from
Leeds in July. So we have a May, we have a June, and now our July forecast. And what we're
really looking for this evening is to walk you through that, some different options in the forecast,
and then get a direction. Because we really need to determine a target that we're going for for '21

through '26 so that both the system optimization plan group as well as the COVID internal task
force, which is the group Bruce is heading, really has a target to aim for that we can start bringing
that information back to the Board and having you make decisions going forward. But without a
target, it's really hard to do that.
So as we talked about before, we knew the June forecast might be really optimistic. And so I want
to present to you some options for the July forecast. So I'm just going to go through these first few
pages rather quickly, because you've seen them before. And really start focusing on the sales and
use tax revenues.
So in this screen that I'm showing you right now-- and those of you that are following in your
agenda packet, it's agenda packet page 87. I'm just comparing the Leeds forecast. So the first one
on the left hand side is the May 2020 forecast. And it has the lower, medium, and high forecast. I
just want to point out that the Board had given its direction to use the low forecast for 2020, so the
$500.9 million. And then the medium forecast for 2021 through 2026, so starting with $485.9
million down. And then in 2026, it would be $694.8 million.
So that's kind of where we're sitting at now.
PAUL BALLARD: Heather, Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PAUL BALLARD: You need to advance your screen. You're just showing us the title slide.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. We see the title.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You still see the title? You don't see the-JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. It's just the title page.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Man, why? Well, it was working earlier. I apologize. No, title page?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
SUSAN COHEN: Hello, this is Susan. Would it help if I tried to share my screen instead?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Do you want to try to do that? Because I'm having all kinds of
problems here, so.
SUSAN COHEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let me get out of here so you can do that.
SUSAN COHEN: Oh, you have to get out first.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yep. Hold on. Let me get out if it's going to let me out.
SUSAN COHEN: Ah, still [AUDIO OUT]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Hang on. I'm sharing.
SUSAN COHEN: OK. OK. There we go. Can everybody see this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LURAE STUART: Yes.
SUSAN COHEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. Sorry, you guys. I tried it earlier and it worked. I apologize.
OK. So this screen is the the one I was talking about where we had gotten directions from the
board before to use for 2020 in the May forecast, which is in the upper left hand corner, the $500.9
million. And then for 21 through 26, the medium forecast, which is in the middle column. So that
is where we've been sitting and what we've been using to date.
We then received, a couple of weeks ago, the June forecast, which across the board was up from
the May forecast. And you can see just for comparison purposes, if you look at the totals, the range
went from $3.9 million to $4.1 in the May forecast in the upper lower balance. And then in the
July one-- I'm sorry, in the June one, we're looking at $3.6 to $5.8. So not only did the numbers
get larger, but the upper and lower bounds became wider. So you had a very narrow margin, $3.9
to $4.1 in the May. Then you move to June and we have $3.6 to $5.8 million.
And now we have the July forecast that just came in a week ago. And that is somewhere right in
between. So the July forecast is down from June, but up from May. So if you look at the total
column in the low, it ranges from $3.5 billion to $5.5 billion. Again, a much larger range than what
you saw in May, but a higher number than May overall, if you look at the medium or the high. But
if you look at the low, it's actually lower, because that bound became bigger.
So Susan, can you move to the next slide, please? So what I wanted to just show you for
comparison purposes is, this is a comparison of the low forecast in May for 2020 and then the
medium forecast for 2021 through 2026. And then I compared it to the same forecast in June and
July. So you can see, there's a difference. If we use that same philosophy, so a low forecast for
2020 but the medium forecast for '21 through '26, then the difference between May and June was
$706 million for that total period of time. The difference between May and July drops to $494. But
it's still a positive number.
So that's the current thinking that we are using already, low forecast for 2020 and medium for '21
through '26. But there are some other options. So if you go to the next slide, Susan.

In this particular slide, I said, OK. We have the low forecast for 2020 already established and the
medium for '21 through '26. What if we compared that to the June and you used low for 2020
through 2026 or the July low 2020 through 2026?
And you can see that there's a considerable difference. So between May and June, if you use low
across the board, there's a $400 million or $394 million shortfall. But between May and July,
there's a $500 million shortfall. But that is a very conservative option. This would put us, if the
Board chose this option, below what the May forecast was and increase that shortfall-- or not
increase it, but keep it about the same as it was before. So you'll see that in an upcoming chart.
The next one is if we did medium across the board. So we have low for 2020 in our baseline, in
our May forecast, with medium 2021 through 2026. And then we just compared that to medium
forecast for both June and July. And you can see in that, the difference between May and June is
$740 million difference to the good. And the difference between May and July is still to the good.
It's about $524 million.
So if you use a medium across the board, you're in a pretty good situation, or I shouldn't say a
pretty good situation. A better situation than where we were when we used the May forecast. None
of these are good situations, but they're better than they were in May. Next slide.
So if I just took 2021, and I showed the options, our May forecasts that we were using, which is
the medium forecast, was a shortfall of $251 million in 2021. So when we kept talking about
between base and fast tracks, we had a shortfall of $250 million, this is based on the May forecast.
Then I took just the July forecast. So in this comparison, I'm just taking June out entirely because
that's a forecast that is no longer relevant at this time. So if I take the July forecast and I take the
low scenario, that would take us to a $245 million shortfall. So basically, the same shortfall we
had using the main medium forecast.
And that the Board always has the option of going to a medium forecast, which is what we used
from the May 2020 forecast, we used for 2021 was the medium. That takes our shortfall down by
not quite $100 million, but down to $166 million. So that's a considerable difference by using the
July medium forecast versus the May medium forecast. Next slide.
So this just looks at the totals between those. So if you take the '21 to '26 shortfall comparison, the
low, you show overall between 2021 and 2026 a higher shortfall, so a bigger shortfall over that
period of time of $539 million. So in that case, we would have to come up with more money than
what we had shown you when we used the May forecast.
If we go to the medium scenario for '21 through '26, this still assumes the low forecasts for 2020.
But in '21 through '26, if we go to the medium forecast, then in that case, we actually see a slightly
better forecast over that period of time. That results in $460 million smaller for shortfall. So you
have less of a shortfall in that period of time by $460 million, so a better scenario if you use the
medium forecast. Next slide.

So in this case, I also wanted to point out what this would look like in 2020 for reserves that would
be carried over in 2021. Because that can be used to offset some of these shortfalls that we're
talking about. So in the base Board appropriated fund, we had originally-- I'm sorry, based on the
May Leeds forecast, we had $81 million total that we could carry forward. Under the base
unrestricted, this $39.7 million that you see in the middle, that is based on the amended 2020
budget. So we're carrying forward $39 million that the board had given me direction for $25
million. And we were able to come up with $39.
With that low forecast still for 2020, we'll be able to add another $20.3 million. And we're
estimating the carry forward would be $60 million there. So a total carry forward of $101.8 million.
This sounds really good, except three months of operating reserve, which is our goal, would be
$136 million, just for comparison purposes. So even with all of that carry forward that we might
be able to do for 2020, we are still going to be short from three months of operating reserve. But I
just wanted to use that for comparison purposes.
And then you can see, we also had additions to the FasTracks unrestricted, $13.5 million more,
even with the low forecast. And then we cover our three month operating reserve and still have
$13.5 million left over there. We also start with a large beginning balance. We have shown this
before to you. And we have the FasTracks internal savings account.
So there will be discussion starting on August 4th, which is next week, about, what does the board
want to do as far as maybe trying to offset some of the shortfalls, regardless of what scenario you
choose tonight, by looking at using some of our reserves that we are anticipating having going into
2021? So next slide.
So before we move on to this next part, I just wanted to emphasize, what we're trying to do tonight
is figure out which of those scenarios you would like to go with, the July using our low forecast
or July using the medium forecast, or something else, and really need that direction tonight. So I'm
going to finish the presentation real quickly. And then I want to open it up so we can spend time
hearing from the board members on what their feelings are about the revenue forecasts.
The next three slides are just restating the principles as the Board adopted them. So we can just
skip through those. Just to remind you what the principles-- so on this page, the COVID-19 fiscal
response task force, the status is, the AGMs have submitted their proposed reductions, the task
force has reviewed all submittals, there are meetings being held now with each AGM to go over
the recommendations from the task force, and then those recommendations will be forthcoming to
the Board, starting, my understanding is on August 4th. Bruce will start covering that in a very
high level discussion.
And then as I just mentioned to you, the future Board considerations will be use of reserves, use
of the funds to either future contributions or the existing balance, looking at reductions in
administrative overhead costs, and that will be coming out of the fiscal response taskforce, and
then looking at what type of service reductions we need to sustain in order to be able to balance
the budget.

But some of that will be dependent, of course, on which scenario you choose. So with that, unshare,
I would love to open it up to the Board and ask them to provide guidance. Or I'd be glad to answer
any questions about the various options that were presented.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Heather, it's Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead, Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to remind the directors on the call that if you go to the bottom
of your screen and you click participants, the participants will be listed on your right. And to the
far right, there is an opportunity to raise your hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. I just wanted to clarify that everybody understood that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Let me see. Are there any board members?
I'm not seeing anybody's hand raised. And I know that cannot be right.
JUDY LUBOW: I see Vince Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I raised my hand and it worked.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, good for you. I didn't see it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Heather, for that presentation and for the materials ahead of time. I spent
a lot of time over the weekend looking at this. And I guess I'll just cut to the chase. And I would
say that I would be in favor of using the July medium forecasts moving forward. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger? I think
you're muted.
[AUDIO OUT, TYPING]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger? Maybe I'll-- whoever needs to mute their
phone. Perhaps I'll go to Director Tisdale and then come back to Director Guissinger. Mr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to say that I concur in the
words of Director Buzek, that he just expressed. And I thank you for that opportunity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Director Guissinger? We may have lost her.
Miss McManus, do you see any other hands raised? I do not.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think Director Cook had a comment or question.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Sorry. I don't have-- you know, the last Zoom session I did, I think. But
I don't have a hand raising option on this one for some reason. So forgive me. Heather, can you
please identify-- we don't have the full report like we did in May, which kind of detailed the
assumptions and so forth that went into this. Can you describe the assumptions, first of all. In a
phone call earlier today, you had indicated that the medium case does not assume a new wave of
infection this fall. And there probably are other things that feed into that, too. So that's the first
thing.
Second thing is, what gives you confidence that the medium is the one to place our bets on here?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes. And in regards to the forecast, Susan, if you could go back to
the one towards the very beginning when it compares the three, the May forecast, whether it was
the low, medium, or high forecast, did assume that there would be a slow down again at the end
of 2020 and into early 2021, assuming that there would be kind of another wave that came through
at that time.
The June forecast did not have that in there, and neither does the July forecast. So the July forecast
really assumes that the sales and use tax wasn't hit as hard in 2020, which we saw in the May
number. It wasn't as bad as we thought it was going to be. And definitely, April was much better
than we thought it was going to be. So assuming that trend continues, that June, July on will be
fairly strong. Again, not where it was before, but fairly strong. And that the markets will hold up
and that we will be able to move forward and businesses will stay open.
So it does not assume kind of a re-entrenchment or slowing down like the May forecast did at the
end of 2020 or 2021. But it is a much slower, more steady forecast than what was in May also.
Definitely, it was slower than what was in the June forecast.
So I think what we're looking at is, with what we saw in April and May when I ran some of my
numbers separately, I was seeing numbers that could be closer to what they are showing for the
medium or even closer to the higher category as far as where we could be, assuming we don't have
to [AUDIO OUT] again. And so I think with the amount of uncertainty going on, that the medium
forecast is probably a good place to be right now. I think the low is just really conservative and is
even below where we were in May. And we have information now that really doesn't support
something that low.
Now again, six months from now, or three months or whatever, if we start seeing that changing,
then we will come back to the Board and have that conversation. But we did talk to Leeds and they
did say right now, they're not seeing not from even the national models or the Colorado, especially,
because we've been doing much better than the national front. So that's why I feel pretty
comfortable with the medium forecast right now for sales and use tax.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. And just to underscore one point. The fact that there is such a span
between the lower and upper bounds is a reflection of the great amount of uncertainty. And to me,
in some ways, knowing that's true and knowing the huge impacts that we might face if there's
another shutdown, I almost want to be a little bit more conservative. But something you said
sparked a question about whether we could adjust.
Like one time Bob Broome had thought about identifying a second scenario for cuts and being
able to pull the trigger if we saw a new wave and new shutdowns in September, October,
November timeframe. And that would get us a little bit ahead of the game. Is that a possibility? Is
that feasible? We could come up with two ideas. One is either what you had suggested if we wanted
to be more conservative, or splitting the difference between the middle and the low, and/or
developing two scenarios, assuming one, but being able to kind of pull the trigger on the other one
if things started to go south this fall. Can you comment on that, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. So yes. So one of the things you and I had talked about was, I'm
presenting what Leeds has as far as their low, medium, and high. The Board could always direct
me to come up with something in between, right? The low and the medium or something like that,
if they so chose. That's your prerogative to do that.
The other thing I wanted to mention, though, along those lines, is we could control that with some
of the cost piece of it, too, right? So in Bruce's task force that they're working on, we could have
some different scenarios. For this type of forecast, these would be the reductions we'd make. If the
forecasts started going south, we could have these additional reductions on standby. Wouldn't want
to do those unless things got really bad. But here are the things that we could do if that happened.
So we could also control that by looking at the cost side, not just the revenue side of it, too. So
there are some options there. But I felt the fiscal policy kind of directs me to present you what the
Leeds forecast is. If the Board wants me to do something different than that, you have that
prerogative to direct us in that way, which in this case, might be something between the low and
medium or something like that for the July forecast.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And/or the ability to have that as something in our back pocket having
planned for it, and deciding firmly before we adopt the mid-term financial plan and/or the 2021
budget, which one it'll be. So I guess that's my preference, go with a lower number and/or develop
a scenario, at least, based on it. And then make a firm decision later.
And the second thing is, this is my last comment, the future Board considerations in line with our
COVID principles, I would hope that one of the things that Bruce's group, understanding that we're
time pressed here, but in addition to service reductions, we'd be identifying service alternatives as
well. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Guissinger, are you
available?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you hear me now?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can. I don't see you, but I hear you. Go ahead, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, you know, I think my question was answered. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so much. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks, Madam Chair. I initially had my hand raised to make sure that
Director Cook was recognized. But while I have the floor, I do concur with Directors Tisdale and
Buzek on the July medium plan, especially in light of the just prior discussion of the flexibility
that Heather and staff will have if we sense the need for a little tweak to the plan. Hopefully all it
is is a little tweak. That's all. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I hope so, too, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm inclined to agree with Director Cook. I'm a little
bit nervous recognizing the volatility of some of these forecasts. And I guess what concerns me
more is the fact that we do not know if the federal unemployment subsidy is going to be continued.
And the fact of the matter is, a number of consumers who are spending money for which we are
collecting sales and use tax, we're relying on an additional $600 per week. And if that goes away,
has that been factored into any of these forecasts? Or even if it's been reduced?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. So we did ask that question. My understanding is,
yes, it's been factored into the July forecast. That they knew the stimulus funding and the additional
unemployment funding would be terminating at the end of July.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. Can you speak into your phone? It's hard to hear you.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there you go. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. That was a very good presentation. And I know there's just so many
caveats and so many unknowns that this is most certainly not the last time that this gets edited.
And I guess, until the next iteration, I guess I would say go ahead with the July medium, given all
the consideration you've given. But yeah. I just think there's just so much uncertainty. It's not
positive uncertainty. So that's just my two cents. Thanks
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so very much. OK. In the queue, there are some
directors who just dialed in. So let me check one more time. Does anybody have any questions for
Miss McKillop?

DOUG TISDALE: I believe Director Lubow does.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow, please.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't have questions. I have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I also am very concerned about the really unstable economic and health
condition that we're in. I mean, it could go south pretty quickly. So I support, actually, Shelly
Cook's idea of having perhaps in our back pocket a darker analysis, perhaps in between the low
and the medium, that we could use quickly if things start going south, as well they might. That's
my take on it. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I do want to make sure that you can hear me, as I had to link
my phone to my computer. Can you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you clearly. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Great. All right. So to start with, the main question was, which
forecast. And as maybe not surprise, I would go with the low forecast. I feel that puts us in a better
position to address the unknown. And we certainly have had enough of that.
And then the second part of the question was, with the five options as we move forward, where
would we address the funding shortfall? In order of ranking of the five options, the first would be
the reduction in overhead as a first option to look at. Secondly would be future FISA. Third would
be existing FISA. Fourth would be service reductions.
And as a last resort, would be the main base reserves. Because I still have continuing concerns
that-- Although it's been stated this is a common amount of reserves in the industry, to me, it seems
to be exceptionally low. And that gives me concern. And that is why that would be the last resort.
And so I hope I have answered all the questions you were looking to get answers for there, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss McManus or Mr. Sherman, I'm not seeing any other hands
in the queue. Are you?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. If there's no one else in the queue, can
I maybe summarize and see if this is acceptable?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what I'm hearing is that there is support for the July medium.
However, that maybe I should do a calculation of something between the low and medium by year
and have a range, so somewhere between the medium and what maybe a more worst case is. So
when then we work towards the overhead service reductions reserve use and those type of things,
we can look at it from a range perspective. But I'll run the numbers using the medium and then
something between the medium and low, using the July forecast as a backup.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Is that acceptable to most people?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anyone opposed? Miss McKillop, I'm not seeing anyone doing
that. So I'm going to say yes, that is exactly correct.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Then I will get on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Anything else in your presentation?
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me. I believe Director Lewis has her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I can't see it. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I did have a question regarding the FISA. I was
surprised that we were dipping into the reserves. I mean, we hadn't addressed the FISA. And so as
Director Menten has pointed out, I was just curious as to when that might come into play.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So we'll start the discussion next week
on the August 4th meeting about using reserves. And then that will continue, I'm sure, for the next
several study sessions on what that will look like till we get a resolution on where the Board wants
to go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Reserves or the FISAs? Just to clarify.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: FISA is part of the reserve, yes. So the FISA and the reserves.
Everything on that that's attached in your packet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Does that answer all your questions, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Because I'm not seeing people's hands up, does
anybody else see anyone's hands up? Because I'm not seeing anybody here. OK. I think that is it
for the presentation this evening. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct for me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is there any other matters to come before the Board on this
special study session? OK. I'm looking at all my phones and everything and I'm not seeing
anything. So I'm going to call for an adjournment. Do I have a movement?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Director Tisdale. All in favor?
TROY WHITMORE: Aye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Aye.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We are adjourned at 6:46 PM. Thank you. Have a good
evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

