1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, November 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:19 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Absent

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:19 PM
5:21 PM
5:25 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:20 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

5:27 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:29 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:24 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:17 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:24 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Jessie Carter, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Mitch
Kuharski, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Bill Van
Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Ryan Archibald, Maggie Bedwell, Jenifer Brandenberry, Z.J. Czupor,
Mike Dino, Jane Donovan, Elizabeth Enserro, Maria Garcia Berry, Joni
Goheen, Pauline Haberman, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard,
Leesly Leon, Sheryl Machado, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• 2016 FasTracks Public Information Consultant Contract Award
It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager and CEO to
approve the fourth one-year option to the Virtegic Group, Incorporated as
the FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach
Consultant, extending the period of performance through 2016, the final
year of the contract. The scope of work is negotiated annually between RTD
and the Virtegic Consultant Staff, and awarded annually by the RTD Board
of Directors at the discretion of RTD. This contract amendment is for an
amount not to exceed $745,411.52 for the year 2016. Funds for the
award are contained in the 2016 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks
program.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 17, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager for
Capital Programs, explained that this is the continuation of a
contract that augments the RTD public information staff
through Virtegic. He noted that with five corridors opening up
it is essential this contract is extended so there is enough
staffing.

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications,
expressed that RTD has had good service from Virtegic in the
past and gone through a lot of learning together. He noted
that with all five openings it is critical for RTD to have the
Virtegic team in place, especially since they are familiar with
RTD’s process, services, etc. He stated that the Board has
been very clear in the expectations of communications, public
outreach, etc. as part of the openings and Virtegic will be a
key element to those efforts.
Scott Reed said that RTD began working with Virtegic when a
Request for Proposals were issued in 2011. He explained that
the incumbent contractor at the time submitted a bid that was
almost double the price of Virtegic. He commented that staff
loved working with the previous contractor but, given the
procurement process and that RTD is a public agency, Virtegic
was awarded the contract. He stated that staff has not been
sorry of the decision to work with Virtegic. He pointed out
that Virtegic has been great working with other departments
within RTD, which is so important since the openings will be a
team effort. He reiterated that staff has been very pleased
with Virtegic’s work but recognized that there are some Board
members who have a different opinion. He stated that
Virtegic has delivered what has been expected of them and
provides a great value to RTD.
Scott Reed noted that this will be the final year that staff
requests the extension of the Virtegic contract as the
FasTracks projects are winding down.
Director Tobiassen thanked Virtegic for their support over the
past several years on the I-225 Line. They have, in his
opinion, gone above and beyond by working nights,
weekends, short notice, etc. to try and keep the public
informed. He feels they are very responsive and professional.
He stated that with 2016 coming RTD needs all hands on deck
to make our openings successful. Director Tobiassen looks
forward to working with RTD staff and Virtegic as one team.
He stated he will be voting for this recommendation.
Director Francone noted an increase of approximately $59K
from 2015 to 2016. She asked for further information as to
what this increase would cover. Scott Reed explained that
one of the elements embedded in the contract is an option to
add additional resources. He said this contract is negotiated

annually to ensure the proper resources are allocated. With all
of the openings in 2016 Scott Reed said that two additionall
people would be added through Virtegic to work with RTD.
Director Francone stated that her inclination is to vote no.
She said her short experience with Virtegic has been one of
inconsistent quality. There have been some wildly successful,
beautifully managed events and some not so good events.
Scott Reed noted that he and Director Francone did have a
discussion about her concerns offline. He appreciates her
candor and the discussion they had. He acknowledged that
there is a shared responsibility in making sure the Virtegic
team is headed in the proper direction and takes responsibility
for any time they might have been directed the wrong way.
Director Deadwyler thanked Scott Reed for the beautiful
statement of support for Virtegic; however, she does not feel
that way. She expressed that often Directors hear about
events, meetings, etc. at the last minute. She stated that,
contrary to what Scott Reed said about them working well
with other departments, she has heard Virtegic is a detriment.
She thinks that many of the people brought on by Virtegic
have no clue about what we do at RTD. She does not feel the
expertise that RTD was seeking is there. Director Deadwyler
believes Virtegic is just a pair of hands and not doing the work
they were hired for. She does not like the idea that Virtegic
will be getting a $60K increase. She said she does not think
RTD needs Virtegic just because of the openings. Director
Deadwyler stated that our marketing department does a great
job and that RTD staff does a better job than what she has
seen from Virtegic. Scott Reed reiterated that while there is a
contract increase of $59K it is because Virtegic will be
providing two additional employees.
Director Lubow shared that she would also be voting no,
which she finds extremely difficult because she does like the
people she has worked with from Virtegic; however, she is not
voting no due to the quality of Virtegic’s work. She noted
that the contract keeps going up at a time when RTD has
raised fares for people who cannot afford to pay more. She
commented that she has been asking herself what RTD can
do. She said that the Board is always told that RTD can either
raise fares or lower service but Director Lubow thinks there is
a third way. That third way is the possibility of really
tightening RTD’s belt and finding additional funding. She

thinks that increasing the contract for Virtegic while many
Board members are expressing concerns with the work being
done sends the wrong message to the community.
Director Anderson stated that she will be supporting this
recommendation. She stressed that with five new lines
opening the RTD staff is going to be extremely busy. She
feels $59K for two extra people is reasonable and is really a
drop in the bucket for helping with fares.
Director Walker expressed that he too would be supporting the
recommendation. He said his experience with Virtegic has
been great. He cannot tell who is RTD staff and who is an
augmentation when working with public information. Director
Walker has not heard anything negative about their work from
staff. He stated that there is no way he can support putting
RTD’s staff in that kind of bind with five new lines opening.
Chair Sisk said he supports this recommendation with great
vigor. He thinks Virtegic has intertwined themselves very well
with the RTD staff. He shared that he has been spoiled with
first class treatment from Virtegic. He asked the Board to
keep in mind that RTD wants to do a first class opening for
our five lines.
Director Solano said he too would be supporting the
recommendation. He thinks Virtegic has done extraordinary
work. He shared that every time he has an event to attend or
a speaking presentation they provide him with all the
information he needs. He also sees them at many community
events.
Director Folska expressed she has similar concerns as those of
Director Francone that Virtegic’s work is inconsistent, at best.
She said she is glad to know there are Board members that
have had flawless experiences but she has been consistently
disappointed. She shared that last year she was provided
incorrect information for her telephone town hall and this year
she received her information very late. Additionally, the night
of her town hall she was approached by a new Virtegic
employee who asked Director Folska to be patient because the
employee said they did not know anything about RTD.
Director Folska stated that when RTD pays $745K for an
expert contractor she expects those employees to be on their

game. She really feels, in light of Director Lubow’s comments
that it is time for RTD to tighten our belt, that this contract is
irresponsible. She recognized that the opening of five new
lines is a huge undertaken but noted that three are being
opened by Denver Transit Operators, so RTD is not alone.
Director Folska shared that she specifically reached out to RTD
staff because she did not want to put them in an untenable
position and the response she received was that Virtegic was
not necessary.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 5]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, James, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lasater, Lubow
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks
Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract
amendment to Jacobs Engineering, in an amount not to exceed
$22,579,180, for Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks
through June 30, 2017. Funding in the amount of $16,934,180 for the
2016 work program is included in the 2016 Recommended Budget for the
FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC support
would be utilized. Funding for the balance of the contract through June
30, 2017 is included in the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation for 2017,
and will be appropriated in the specific projects in the 2017 capital
budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 17, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska asked for clarification as to why the Board was
being asked to approve the contract through 2017 but there
was only funding for the contract through 2016. Committee
Chair Hoy explained that the contract amount for 2016 had
been included in the 2016 Requested Budget. He said that the
funds for 2017 are included in the Annual Program Evaluation

but noted that the 2017 Requested Budget has not yet been
created.
Henry Stopplecamp noted that this is the end of a 12 year
contract. He said that staff was hoping to receive Board
authorization for the contract through mid-2017 so they did
not have to come back to the Board for approval of a very
short term extension. He explained that RTD only pays for
services provided so often the total dollar value is under the
not-to-exceed value.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that as far as the work done by
Jacobs they really function as an extension of RTD staff. He
said it is very difficult to tell who is a Jacobs’ employee and
who works directly for RTD. He recognized that a good
portion of the FasTracks staff are consultants that have
integrated within RTD staff over the years. He shared that the
goal is to ramp down the contractors over the next several
years as the corridors wrap up construction.
Committee Chair Hoy asked if his understanding is correct that
the idea behind this contract is that when the work is done the
contractors will go away. He noted that it is hard to get rid of
someone that is hired as a full-time RTD employee. He thinks
this is a simple way to reduce the workforce efficiently. Henry
Stopplecamp stated that was correct. He explained that
Jacobs had people with specialized areas of expertise that
RTD could not bring in-house on a full time basis as many of
these people are needed only part-time.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Approval of 2016 – 2017 Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2016 –
2017 Contract Amendment for Delcan in the amount of $2,669,575 for

FasTracks Quality Management Consulting Services. The term of this
Contract Amendment covers the period of January 1, 2016 through July 31,
2017 when the Contract ends. The cost breakdown for 2016 and 2017 are
$1,662,900 and $1,006,675 respectively. Funds for the amendment are
contained in the 2016 RTD FasTracks Budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 17, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Kevin Diviness, Director of Quality Assurance, noted that one
subtle difference between this contract and the Jacobs
contract is that for this contract the funding for both 2016
and 2017 are included in the 2016 Requested Budget.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Station Names for Eagle P3 Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed station name for the Eagle P3
Project “Gateway Station” as follows.
East Corridor:
Peña & 61st
Prior to the Board having the opportunity to move the recommended action
made by staff, Committee Chair Hoy made a motion to approve a substitute
main motion. He explained that the goal of his substitute motion was to
keep this station name in conjunction with our typical naming convention, as
outlined by RTD’s Station Naming Policy.

Motion to
Approve
Substitute
Main
Motion:

Committee Chair Hoy made the substitute main
motion to read as follows:

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed
station name for the Eagle P2 Project “Gateway Station” as
follows:
East Corridor:
Pena at 61st
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Bagley asked Interim General Manager Genova’s
insights as to what staff thinks about this substitute main
motion. Interim General Manager Genova commented that the
City of Denver preferred to have the station name be just
Pena; however, he said he too noticed that this station name
did not follow policy when presented to him by staff. He
thinks the change is appropriate and said that staff supports it.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning,
suggested a slight modification. He pointed out that other
stations along the corridor have an ampersand rather than at.
He suggested the name read: Pena & 61st. Committee Chair
Hoy and Chair Sisk agreed with the recommendation.
Committee Chair Hoy explained that the real reason to include
a cross street is that Pena Boulevard and the rail tracks run
parallel for about five miles.
Director Deadwyler expressed her support of the substitute
main motion. She thinks a lot of people from Commerce City
will use the station and it will be helpful for them to know the
intersection.
Director Walker asked if he was correct that the substitute
main motion was to have Pena listed first and then the street
that included a number. He commented that other stations in
the system have the numbered street first. He asked if it
would be possible to switch the order. Committee Chair Hoy

explained that the order he proposed is more acceptable to the
City of Denver. He said the information he received from staff
was that there was no policy outlining what cross street
needed to come first.
Director Bagley called for the question. Director Folska had
wanted to speak but Director Hoy called for the vote.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Committee Chair
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the substitute main motion PASSED.

C. Other Matters
Director Folska said she wanted to explain her no vote related to the naming of the
station at Pena Boulevard and 61st Avenue. She explained that what Director
Walker mentioned was about being consistent with standards that have been set-up
with planning design and wayfinding in mind. She shared that one of the problems
that really dogs people with disabilities is random inconsistency at the whim of an
individual, city, municipality, etc. She thinks it is a tragic mistake that the name
was approved this evening as Pena & 61st. She recognized that this might not be a
big deal to those who can see but it is a very big deal when you are blind and trying
to find your way around.
Scott Reed introduced the newest member of the communications department,
Nate Currey, who will be assuming the role of Senior Manager of Public Information
and Public Relations. He said that Nate come to RTD from DRCOG. He shared that
Nate worked with the communications department previously during the Stand Up
for Transportation Day and they were blown away by his efforts. Scott Reed
stated that Nate brings a wealth of knowledge and collaborative spirit that will be a
great asset to the department.
Henry Stopplecamp noted that there had been some concern from the Board about
the Sable and Alameda closure being resolved before Thanksgiving. He said he was
happy to report that if all works out well, Sable and Alameda will be open this
Thursday. He stated that as soon as it is confirmed staff will issue a press release.

D. Next Meeting Date - December 01, 2015
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:12 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

