1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, November 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• 2016 FasTracks Public Information Consultant Contract Award
• Approval of Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for FasTracks
Program Support Consulting Services

• Approval of 2016 – 2017 Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services

• Station Names for Eagle P3 Project
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - December 01, 2015
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 28, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 27, 2015

Board Meeting Date: November 17, 2015

Subject:

2016 FasTracks Public Information Consultant
Contract Award

Discussion

It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the Interim General Manager and CEO to approve the fourth one-year option to the Virtegic Group,
Incorporated as the FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant,
extending the period of performance through 2016, the final year of the contract. The scope of work
is negotiated annually between RTD and the Virtegic Consultant Staff, and awarded annually by the RTD
Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD. This contract amendment is for an amount not to exceed
$745,411.52 for the year 2016. Funds for the award are contained in the 2016 Recommended
Budget for the FasTracks program.
BACKGROUND
Utilizing a Public Information Consultant team to extend the staffing needs of the FasTracks Public
Information Program contributes to the agency’s Board adopted goal to Advance/Complete
FasTracks.
In October 2011, RTD issued a Request for Proposals for a Public Information, Communications a nd
Public Outreach Consultant to serve as an extension of staff in the implementation of the FasTracks
Public Information Program. Following a comprehensive evaluation process, Virtegic Group,
Incorporated, a certified SBE firm, was selected for this contract award, at a rate that was
approximately half that of the previous Public Information Consultant.
The procurement was set up as a one-year contract award with four one-year options, negotiated
annually by RTD and Consultant Staff and awarded annually by the RTD Board of Directors. This gives
RTD the opportunity to assess and address the public information and outreach needs of the
FasTracks program on an annual basis as the program evolves. The services needed through this
contract may be reduced or increased from year to year depending on the future financial situation
and changing needs of the FasTracks program.
Virtegic began its work in January 2012 and the RTD Board approved th ree previous option years
through 2015. In the three years of working as the FasTracks public information consultant so far,
the Virtegic team members have satisfactorily performed their work assignments and have remained
flexible in meeting the needs of the public information program during several key staff transitions.
They are also playing a key role in augmenting RTD Public Relations outreach, as FasTracks projects
begin transitioning into base system operational services.
DISCUSSION
The initial contract to Virtegic for 2012 was in the amount of $451,459.20. The first one -year
option for 2013 was $485,167.20. The second one-year option for 2014 was $487,308.80. The
third one-year option for 2015 was $686,009.60. The fourth one-year option for 2016 is not to
exceed $745,411.52 bringing the total on this contract to $2,855,356.32. The option to provide

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

additional staffing to assist with specific corridor public information project outreach as well as
preparation for the FasTracks project openings in 2016 is being exercised. It is crucial that proper
amounts of staff who have direct experience with RTD’s programs, procedures and policies be in
place to provide adequate resources for the unprecedented five rapid transit line openings in 2016,
something with which no other transit agency has ever been tasked.
The FasTracks Public Information Program is implemented through six functional areas: Internal
Relations, Government Relations, Media Relations, Public Involvement, Public Outreach, and Crisis
Communications. The 2016 PIC scope of work is divided into the PI Program’s function al areas.
The 2016 Scope of Work is as follows:


Public Information Program Management and Administration
o Coordinate PI staffing needs, tasks and projects with FasTracks Public Information
Manager
o Participate in team management structure
o Produce monthly progress reports and invoice of work performed



Internal Relations
o Assist with revisions to Strategic Public Information Plan
o Facilitate development and distribution of 2015 Annual and Quarterly PI Plans
o Serve as PI Liaisons to project teams
o Assist in coordination of PI Coordination Meetings
o Assist in development of internal FasTracks e-newsletter
o Participate in strategic approach and timely resolution of program and project -related
issues
o Provide strategic approaches for communicating the efforts and accomplishments of the
RTD DBE/SBE program and WIN program
o Assist in development of key messages for internal team
o Facilitate web content management process



Government Relations
o Establish and maintain relationships with RTD Board and assist RTD staff in coordinating
with Board members on FasTracks PI events and activities
o Assist in coordination of periodic Elected Officials’ Briefings
o Assist in coordination of periodic regional Public Information Officer Briefings
o Assist RTD staff in coordinating information regarding emerging issues with elected
officials and other key stakeholders



Media Relations
o Develop and implement media strategies and activities
o Coordinate and participate in annual media visits and FasTracks Media Working
Groups
o Assist in writing and distribution of news releases
o Coordinate communications/media training sessions for internal team members
o Coordinate article and photo submissions to community newspapers and trade
publications



Public Involvement
o Facilitate development and execution of FasTracks public opinion surveys and focus
groups

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

o
o

Provide support to the liaison of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)
Assist in planning and orchestration of Telephone Town Hall Meetings



Public Outreach
o Assist in maintenance of FasTracks website
o Coordinate development of FasTracks external e-newsletter
o Coordinate development of FasTracks brochures
o Coordinate FasTracks program photography and videography
o Coordinate production of FasTracks educational videos
o Collaborate with Public Relations and Marketing staff on development of public education
and awareness campaigns, collateral materials and social media efforts
o Coordinate public information and education campaigns
o Assist with FasTracks presentations and tours
o Coordinate planning and orchestration of FasTracks special events
o Advise on strategic approaches to grassroots and community-based outreach efforts
o Assist RTD Small Business Opportunity Office in ensuring that Disadvantaged and Small
Business Enterprise (D/SBE) firms are informed and engaged about FasTracks progress
and business opportunities
o Maintain stakeholder contact lists



Crisis Communications
o Revise FasTracks Crisis Communications Plan, as needed
o Provide crisis communications training to internal team members



Option – Special Events/Public Information (PI) Outreach Staffing(to be exercised on an
as-needed basis
o The Events and PI Outreach Coordinators perform a variety of communications
activities at the program level and serve as a PI Liaison to the FasTracks project(s).
o Assists with special events, coordinates RTD’s presence at community events and
festivals, writes articles and copy for informational materials, contributes to web and
social media efforts, and assists with maintenance of the FasTracks website.
o Provide staffing to assist with special events planning and preparation for FasTracks
project grand openings in 2016

The following basic components are included in the 2016 contract:
o

The consultant team consists of direct contract project staff including six full-time staff
members and three part-time staff members.

o

A seven percent Small Business Enterprise (SBE) goal is assigned to this contract.
However, 100 percent of the work effort on this contract is SBE-performed given that
Virtegic is a certified SBE.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for this fourth and final one-year option are included in the 2016 Recommended Budget for
the FasTracks program.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth and final

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1

one-year option to the Virtegic Group, Incorporated as the FasTracks Public Information,
Communications and Public Outreach Consultant, extending the period of performance through
2016. The scope of work is negotiated annually between RTD and the Virtegic Consultant staff, and
awarded annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD. This contract amendment
is for an amount not to exceed $745,411.52 for the year 2016, the final year of the contract.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2016 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks program.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Reconsider the Public Information Consultan t approach.
This is not recommended as RTD doesn’t currently have the staff to provide a sufficient level of
resources to meet the public information, communications and public outreach needs of the
FasTracks program and specific FasTracks design and construction projects, especially given the
fact that RTD is opening an unprecedented five major transit lines in 2016. This alternative would
delay and negatively impact the effective implementation of the FasTracks Public Information
Program.
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve the
fourth and final one-year option to Virtegic Group, Incorporated. Issue another Request for
Proposals for professional services for Public Information, Communications and Public Out reach
for the FasTracks Program and award a contract to another consulting team. This is not
recommended as the Virtegic team is satisfactorily performing its work and has been flexible in
meeting the changing communication needs of the FasTracks program. Also, this alternative will
delay and negatively impact the successful implementation of the various strategies and activities
associated with a comprehensive and multi-layered communications effort, especially given the
fact that RTD is opening an unprecedented five major transit lines in 2016.

Prepared by:
Tina Jaquez, Acting Sr. Manager, Public Relations & Public Information
Approved by:
Scott Reed Signature

Henry Stopplecamp Signature

Prepared by:
Tina Jaquez, Acting Senior Manager, PR and PI
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 28, 2015

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

October 28, 2015

Board Meeting Date: November 17, 2015

Subject:

Approval of Contract Amendment to Jacobs
Engineering for FasTracks Program Support
Consulting Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering, in an amount not to
exceed $22,579,180, for Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks through June 30,
2017. Funding in the amount of $16,934,180 for the 2016 work program is included in the 2016
Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific projects where PSC support
would be utilized. Funding for the balance of the contract through June 30, 2017 is included in the
2015 Annual Program Evaluation for 2017, and will be appropriated in the specific projects in the
2017 capital budget.
BACKGROUND
On May 24, 2005, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to CarterBurgess (later purchased by Jacobs Engineering) for Program Support Consulting Services at an initial
2005 Contract amount of $2,360,000, and a Notice to Proceed of July 5, 2005. The RTD Board has
approved subsequent contract amendments that have brought the current Contract Not-to-Exceed price
up to $168,844,156.
The Contract Not-to-Exceed price through the end of 2016 with this contract amendment would be
$185,778,336. The total contract not-to-exceed value through June 30, 2017, which is the contract
end date, would be $191,423,336.
The PSC team provides program management support and specialized technical staff support to augment
RTD FasTracks Team staff. Key PSC staff members are co-located with RTD Staff at the RTD FasTracks
offices. The PSC functions as an extension of RTD staff. This approach adds value, cost-effectively, by
allowing RTD to tap the PSC’s specialized resources in planning, environmental, design, engineering,
construction management support, program control, and related disciplines on an as-needed, often parttime, basis.
Further, as the focus of the FasTracks program has shifted from planning and design to construction and
start up, the staff resources required for support of the program shift similarly. The PSC role has
changed, and will continue to change, to meet the evolving needs of the FasTracks program. This
flexibility allows RTD to retain the core staff required for implementation of the FasTracks program,
without having to continually (and inefficiently) staff up and then staff down in the planning, design, and
construction management disciplines.
Some of the key deliverables and assistance, in process or received, from the Jacobs/PSC team in 2015
included:

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.2



Participation in the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) that resulted in the revised financial plan that
was adopted by the Board in August 2015.



Supported day-to-day management of the Eagle P3 project, including preparing amendments to the
original contract, project coordination, construction audits, railroad coordination, and coordination
with outside agencies.



Supported the design review and coordination with stakeholders for the North Metro Project.



Provided design and construction management support of I-225 LRT Project.



Provided ongoing support in Planning, Engineering, Project Controls and DBE/SBE/WIN support.



Supported the New Starts submittal, helped prepare the Request for Proposal (RFP), and Full Funding
Agreement Grant Application for the Southeast Rail Extension.



Maintained the programwide project controls functions including cost, schedule, estimating, change
management, and document control.



Supported ROW design, survey, and property acquisition for all projects.

DISCUSSION
The Program Support Services Contract was specified for a term of six years with a six-year option, to
be negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s work tasks. The purpose of the annual re-negotiation of
the contract is to ensure that specific tasks and deliverables respond to the evolving needs of the
FasTracks Program.
The PSC serves as an extension of RTD staff. RTD staff provides overall management and control of
the FasTracks program and administration of this contract. The PSC provides key personnel to a number
of tasks. These assignments are based on focusing the PSC effort to:


Areas of specialized expertise or experience.



Part-time assignments.



Shorter duration efforts.



Positions that are difficult for RTD to fill.

Each position in the FasTracks organization is evaluated individually to determine whether that position
falls within the above criteria for using a consultant. In addition, before a consultant is actually brought
into the FasTracks program, an assessment is made as to whether the position is still needed, and an
interview is conducted with the appropriate RTD manager(s).
The major program activities in 2016 include the following:


Testing and start-up of the Eagle P3 project.



Construction, testing and start-up of I-225 Project.



Final design and construction of the North Metro Line.

During 2016, the PSC contract identifies the following specific tasks in support of FasTracks:
Program Management


Support FasTracks Project Controls Team.



Provide the support of specific project controls positions in schedule and cost control.
tracking and monthly schedule and cost updates to each project manager.

Provide

Packet Pg. 8

1.B.2



Provide support of general planning, operations planning, quiet zones, traffic planning, and
noise/vibration mitigation.



Maintain the FasTracks cost database including tracking of materials and labor cost escalation.



Provide on-call support for Partnering and Team Building efforts.



Provide personnel to assist RTD in the management and oversight of RTD’s DBE/SBE program.



Provide data collection and analysis for the annual FasTracks Quality of Life report.



Provide Urban Design support.



Assist RTD in coordinating the overall program-wide and project mapping, right-of-way (ROW), and
utility survey for all corridors and facilities.



Support RTD in preparation of Federal Transit Administration before and after studies.

US 36 (Managed Lanes)


Provide Project close out and start-up as requested by the District.

North Metro


Provide a full time Deputy Project Manager.



Provide a full time Scheduler, Contract Manager, and Document Control staff. Provide full-time DBE
support.



Provide EIS mitigation monitoring.



Provide design oversight support.



Perform mapping, survey and right-of-way support.



Provide Operations Analysis Support as required.

I-225


Provide full time Design Manager.



Provide a full time Scheduler, Contract Manager, Estimator, and Document Control staff. Provide fulltime DBE support.



Provide environmental support.



Provide design and construction oversight support.



Perform mapping, survey and right-of-way support.

SEC Ext.


Perform mapping, survey and right-of-way support.

Eagle P3 (East, Gold, CRMF, Northwest Rail Electrified Segment and DUS Systems)


Provide Federal Agency Liaison and Risk Manager.



Provide full time Project Controls Manager, Contract Manager, Scheduler, Estimator, and Document
Control staff.



Provide DBE oversight and management.



Provide FEIS/ROD mitigation monitoring.



Provide a full time System Safety Manager, and other engineering support as needed.

Packet Pg. 9

1.B.2



Provide field survey, mapping, and potholing as directed.



Provide right-of-way management support.



Provide construction oversight.



Provide Operations Analysis Support as required.

RTD expects the PSC effort to be reduced substantially in 2017. The Eagle and I-225 projects are
scheduled to open in 2016, leaving a reduced need for project support through closeout. In addition, the
contract term only extends through the first six months of the year. Therefore, the estimated maximum
contract cost for 2017 is approximately one-third of the cost for 2016. The specific work scope for
2017 would be established in late 2016.
RTD has established a 7% DBE goal for this Contract. The latest DBE report indicates that the PSC’s
actual cumulative DBE percentage has been 20.2%. For 2016, the PSC has committed to 19% DBE
participation, well in excess of the 7% goal. Additionally, while not in their contract, the PSC has
committed to continuing their participation in the WIN program.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total Contract Not to Exceed Amount for the PSC contract from 2005 through 2017, would be
$191,423,336 with this amendment. Funding in the amount of $16,934,180 for the 2016 work
program is included in the 2016 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program in the specific
projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for the balance of the contract through June 30,
2017 is included in the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation for 2017, and will be appropriated in the
specific projects in the 2017 capital budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to
Jacobs Engineering, in an amount not to exceed $22,579,180, for Program Support Services
Consulting for FasTracks through June 30, 2017. Funding in the amount of $16,934,180 for the
2016 work program is included in the 2016 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program
in the specific projects where PSC support would be utilized. Funding for the balance of the contract
through June 30, 2017 is included in the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation for 2017, and will be
appropriated in the specific projects in the 2017 capital budget.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve the
eighth year contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering. Rather, perform all the work in-house with
RTD staff. This is not recommended as RTD does not have the staff to provide a sufficient level of
expertise in a cost-effective approach to manage the FasTracks Program (As described in the
Background section, the PSC team can provide the technical specialties on an as needed basis).
3. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Re-solicit this work to another consulting team. This is not
recommended as the PSC is satisfactorily performing its work assignments and providing valuable
technical and project management assistance to the RTD team.
Selection of alternatives two or three would delay the implementation of the FasTracks Program as there
would be a major loss of continuity on the program.

Prepared by:
Regional Transportation District,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

1.B.2

Packet Pg. 11

1.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 28, 2015

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

October 28, 2015

Board Meeting Date: November 17, 2015

Subject:

Approval of 2016 – 2017 Contract
Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks Quality
Management Consultant Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to approve the 2016 – 2017 Contract Amendment for Delcan in the amount of
$2,669,575 for FasTracks Quality Management Consulting Services. The term of this Contract
Amendment covers the period of January 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017 when the Contract ends. The
cost breakdown for 2016 and 2017 are $1,662,900 and $1,006,675 respectively. Funds for the
amendment are contained in the 2016 RTD FasTracks Budget.
BACKGROUND
On June 28, 2005, the RTD Board approved selection and award of a multi-year contract to Delcan for
Quality Management Consulting Services at an initial 2005 contract price of $418,539, and a Notice to
Proceed of August 1, 2005. This contract was set up to run for an initial six-year term, re-negotiated
and amended annually, based on the needs of the program. The contract also included provisions for a
six-year option.
On December 13, 2005, the RTD Board approved a second year contract amendment for 2006 in the
amount of $1,100,000.
On November 14, 2006, the RTD Board approved a third year contract amendment for 2007 in the
amount of $1,500,000.
On November 20, 2007, the RTD Board approved a fourth year contract amendment for 2008 in the
amount of $1,335,000.
On November 18, 2008, the RTD Board approved a fifth year contract amendment for 2009 in the
amount of $1,340,000.
On November 17, 2009, the RTD Board approved a sixth year contract amendment for 2010. The
actual cost proposal for the 2010 workscope was $1,400,000; but because of cumulative budget
underruns from previous years, the total Contract Not-to-Exceed price only needed to be increased by
$600,000 in order to deliver the 2010 work.
On November 23, 2010, the Board approved a seventh year contract amendment for 2011 in the
amount of $1,550,000, and authorized the six-year option included in the original contract.
On November 22, 2011, the Board approved an eighth year contract amendment for 2012 in the
amount of $1,645,422.
On November 20, 2012, the Board approved a ninth year contract amendment for 2013 in the
amount of $1,699,247.

Packet Pg. 12

1.B.3

On November 26, 2013, the Board approved a tenth year contract amendment for 2014 in the
amount of $1,700,000.
On November 25, 2014, the Board approved an eleventh year contract amendment for 2015 in the
amount of $1,700,000.
Not-to-Exceed price through the end of July 2017 with this contract amendment would be
$17,257,783.
NOTE: In 2014, Delcan was acquired by Parsons Corporation.
operate under the Delcan name as a Parsons Company.

For the time being, they continue to

Some of the key deliverables and assistance received from the Delcan/QMC team in 2015 include:


Establishment of a Quality Oversight Program for Contracted work
o Revised Quality Oversight Program procedures.
o Maintained RTD’s requirements database to incorporate changes as projects transitioned
from design to construction.
o Updated QMO Database applications to provide user-requested functionality, improved
reporting features, and improved planning tools.
o Provided QMO training for new team members, stakeholders, and contractors.
o Assisted in setting up design reviews, construction verification inspections, and process
audits for all projects.
o Performed management system audits of Contractor QA programs.
o Planned and conducted Quarterly Quality Management Reviews for Eagle, North Metro,
and I225 projects; as well as Program-wide.
o Identified and implemented QMO program improvement actions.
o Maintained ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System registration.



Establishment of Internal Quality Audit Program for Project Management Processes
o Developed internal quality audit schedule for FasTracks key business practices.
o Conducted internal quality audits of FasTracks program management, quality management,
and project controls procedures.

DISCUSSION
The Quality Management Consultant contract was specified for an initial term of six years, with a sixyear option, to be negotiated annually for the upcoming year’s work scope. The purpose of the annual
re-negotiation of the contract was to ensure that specific tasks and deliverables responded to the needs
of the FasTracks program. Because 2017 is only a partial year and the scope will be largely the same as
2016, the work is being incorporated into what is expected to be a final Contract Amendment. For 2016
- 2017, related RTD work includes design-build of the Eagle Project, I225 Corridor, North Metro Rail
Line, and Southeast Rail Extension. The following tasks/substasks highlight the assistance to be
provided by the Delcan/QMC Team in 2016 - 2017:
 Establishment of a Quality Management Oversight (QMO) Program for Contracted work
o Revise Quality Oversight Program manual and procedures as required.
o Maintain RTD’s requirements database to incorporate changes.
o Maintain/update QMO Database applications to incorporate program improvements.
o Provide QMO training for new team members, stakeholders, and contractors.
o Assist in design reviews, construction verification inspections, and process audits.
o Perform contractor management system audits.
o Plan and conduct Quarterly Quality Management Reviews.
o Identify and implement QMO program improvement actions.
o Schedule ISO 9001:2008 surveillance audit for the RTD FasTracks QMO program.

Packet Pg. 13

1.B.3

Assist RTD in preparing an application for the Rocky Performance Excellence Summit
award.
Establishment of Internal Quality Audit Program for Project Management Processes
o Develop/update quality audit schedule.
o Conduct internal quality audits.
o



RTD has established a 5% DBE Goal for this Contract. Delcan’s actual cumulative DBE percentage to
date has been 8.5%. For the 2016 – 2017 term, Delcan has committed to 7.3% DBE participation,
exceeding the established goal as they have every year.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for this contract amendment are included in the 2016 RTD FasTracks budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2016 - 2017 contract
amendment to Delcan in the amount of $2,669,575. Funds for the award are contained in the
2016 FasTracks budget.

2.

Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve the
2016 - 2017 contract amendment to Delcan. Rather, perform all of the work in-house with RTD
staff. This is not recommended, as RTD doesn’t have certain skills required to fully develop the
Quality Management program.

3.

Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to approve the
2016 - 2017 contract amendment to Delcan. Rather, re-solicit and award this work to another
consulting team. This is not recommended, as Delcan is satisfactorily performing its work
assignments and providing valuable quality management assistance to the RTD team.

Prepared by:
Kevin Diviness, Director of Quality Assurance
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

1.B.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: October 29, 2015

From:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

October 29, 2015

Board Meeting Date: November 17, 2015

Subject:

Station Names for Eagle P3 Project

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors accept and
approve the proposed station name for the Eagle P3 Project “Gateway Station” as follows.
East Corridor:
Peña Boulevard
BACKGROUND:
Station names for the East Corridor were originally assigned during the East corridor Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) completed in 2009. At the time the East Corridor EIS was completed, there were
no plans to include a station along Peña Boulevard between the 40th Ave. & Airport Blvd. • Gateway
Park Station and the Denver Airport Station. However, included in the Intergovernmental Agreement
between RTD and Denver International Airport is a provision that up to two “Gateway Stations” may be
added to the East Corridor along Peña Boulevard. At the time of IGA execution the potential station
locations were understood to be in the general vicinity of 72nd and Dunkirk and 62nd and Peña Boulevard.
In 2014, RTD and DIA concluded negotiations to include one of the potential stations to the East
Corridor at the 62nd and Peña Boulevard location. Since the station was added after the East Corridor
EIS was completed, there was no previous name associated with this station although “Peña Blvd” has
been shown on plans, fact sheets and the website. Through discussions with Denver Transit Partners,
the concessionaire on the Eagle P3 Project, it was determined that a deadline of Dec. 01, 2015 for the
official station name would allow sufficient time to integrate the name into the signage design package,
systems packages for LED and LCD monitor displays, and audio announcements; and operations
documents.
The Board previously approved the station names for the Eagle P3 Project in the December 17, 2013
Board Meeting. Since the negotiations for the addition of the “Gateway Station” were ongoing at the
time, an official station name for the “Gateway Station” was not included for approval in the December
17, 2013 Board Meeting.
After the incorporation of the “Gateway Station” into the Eagle P3 Project, Eagle Project staff and DIA
staff coordinated to develop the recommended station name included in this report. Following that
discussion, the staff recommended the following name:
East Corridor:
Peña Boulevard
In Mid-October 2015, the Eagle Design Team issued an official letter to Denver International Airport to
advise them of the proposed station name and provide them with the opportunity to request an alternate
station name, if deemed appropriate and conforming to all the requirements of the RTD Station Naming
Policy. Denver International Airport also would have to submit a completed RTD Station Naming Form.

Packet Pg. 15

1.B.4

The goal was to avoid a later request from the stakeholder after DTP’s incorporation of the name into
the Eagle P3 Project.
DISCUSSION:
After RTD notified Denver International Airport of the RTD recommended station name, RTD received
confirmation that the RTD staff proposed change was acceptable.
Staff Recommendation: Adopt Peña Boulevard
Staff recommends the acceptance of the name Peña Boulevard for the additional “Gateway Station”.
This name is consistent with current RTD policy and is identified with the geographic location of the
area. This proposed name has been discussed to some length between RTD and DIA staff and the
parties are in agreement.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
There is no negative financial impact to the project at this time. DTP is requiring RTD confirmation of the
official Station Name prior to Dec. 01, 2015, in order to avoid costs that would be incurred with
changing station name after DTP commences with station signage and systems packages. RTD sought
local government input now in order to avoid redesign costs later. Any station name changes after Dec.
01, 2015, could have cost implications to either RTD or stakeholders.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed station name for the additional
“Gateway Station” as follows:
a. Peña Boulevard
2. Do not accept the recommended action. Instead propose an alternative name that is consistent
with the current RTD policy for station names. This is not recommended as it would not be
responsive to previous discussions with a key stakeholder. In addition, it would potentially impact
DTP’ ability to incorporate the station name into the Eagle Project without additional costs to
RTD.

Prepared by:
Patrick Stanley, Team Lead, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

