Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on June 12, 2007 at 6:15 p.m.
Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 19, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, June 12,
2007 at 6:15 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Please Note: Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Martinez, Director Chacon, Director Busck, Director
Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director Elfenbein,
Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director
Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick
Director Kemp
Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Marla
Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil
Washington.
Gideon Berger, Derek Crider, Kevin Diviness, Carol Duecker,
Sherry Ellebracht, Jennifer Heisler, Caitlin Magee, Jerry Nery,
Daria Serna, Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey,Bill Sirois, Joe
Smith, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Call to Order:

Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow, Nick Martin, Joelle Martinez, Stu
Williams, Mary Woodard, Bill Wichterman, Brian Murphy,
Steve Roberts, Constatin Nickonou, Bob Yeager, Jeff Noble,
Robert L. Bobo, Don Ulrich, Marianne LeClan, Phunglan
Nguyen, Elisa Cohen, Jake Jakubowski, Kevin Scott, Gail
Ferber, Judy Montero, Tim Boers, Larry Burgess, Pat Burgess,
Steve Gorden, Todd Platten, Howard Alton, Kim Mucera,
Stephanie Syner, Kathleen Osher, Gloria Holliday, Shelley
Coite, Tammy Fields, R.A. Plummer, Lorraine Anderson, Rick
MacNeil
***
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on June 12, 2007 at 6:15 p.m.
Page 2 of 3

Study Session
I. Strategies to Manage ADA Paratransit Growth
Cal Marsella presented the challenges to managing growing Paratransit
demand and cost impact on RTD revenue. For a copy of the presentation,
please refer to the Board Study Session minute book located in the Board
office.
II. Board Priorities and Prioritization
Chair Martinez asked each Board Member to please look at the list of
priorities that they had discussed at the Board Retreat and provide a
response on their top 10 items. This list will be used to compile Board
priorities and to work with staff on integration into their strategic planning
process.
III. Other Matters


Board Involvement in the Best Practices: Coordination of Transit,
Regional Transportation Planning and Land Use Conference 8/26/07
Chair Martinez referenced the memo that had been sent out previously to
the Board Members about this conference in August. He requested the
Board office to resend the information and for the Board Members to
please indicate if they plan to attend.



Board’s FasTracks Resolution of Commitment
Board Members were asked to review the proposed resolution and to
submit their changes to Director McMullen so that a consensus could be
obtained.



Chair Martinez requested that the staff prepare a flyer or document to
give to the public at the June 19 th meeting explaining the EMU/DMU
technologies so that they could make an informed choice. Director Tayer
also requested a video or similar form of presentation that would better
educate the public.



Director Daly requested an update on RTD’s performance at the Rail
Roadeo. He also asked to recognize the participants of the International
Bus and Rail Roadeo at the June 19th Board meeting.

Adjourn to Special Board Meeting
The Board adjourned to Special Board Meeting at 7:42 p.m.
IV. Special Board Meeting
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing Contract Negotiation-General
Manager Contract C.R>S. 24-6-402 (4)(e)

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on June 12, 2007 at 6:15 p.m.
Page 3 of 3
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken. Chair Martinez declared
the motion passed.

V.

Executive Session
Contract Negotiation-General
402(4)(e)

VI.

Adjournment—meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:47 p.m.

Manager’s

Contract

C.R.S.

24-6-

