Summary of the Government Relations Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, April 3,
2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 3, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Legislative Committee held on April 3, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Daly, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen
Deadwyler, Hoy, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams and
Walker

Director Malpiede, Director James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Chuck Culig, John
Dawson, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Andy Mutz, Jerry Nery,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKennaBrandeberry-McKenna, Roger Sherman-CRL,
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 6:21 p.m.

Update - State Legislative Issues
 State issues by Brandeberry~McKenna team
o SB 12-044, Failure to present valid evidence of mass transit fare
payment.
o HB 12-1045, Sales and use tax exemption for beetle-kill wood sales.
o HB 12-1069, Tax holiday for “back-to-school” expenditures.
o FasTracks Program audit request
Julie McKenna presented the State Legislative Issues to the Board.

Summary of the Government Relations Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, April 3,
2012
Page 2
Julie McKenna gave an update that SB 12-044 has passed through the senate and
assigned to House transportation. She does not see any difficulty in that moving
forward.
o

Director McMullen asked for an explanation of SB 12-044. Julie McKenna
stated that SB 12-044 is a theft of transit bill that came out of Judicial. There
is a Denver Judge that sees a lot of theft of transit cases where someone has
not paid for Light Rail and they are issued a higher infraction than a traffic
violation. The cost is much higher and more severe than Judicial feels is
warranted. The passing of the bill will change it from being a criminal
violation as it stands now to a civil penalty under the category of traffic
violations and if not paid the offender risks not being able to renew their
driver license.

Julie McKenna stated that HB 12-1045 and HB 12-1069 are both in preparations
and have not moved forward.
o

Director Tobiassen asked about what is the possible fiscal impact for RTD.
Julie stated she did not bring that information with her but will follow up with
him.

Julie McKenna gave a brief update on the FasTracks audit request stating that
Representative Swalm requested that an audit be done on the FasTracks program.
The committee authorized 8 hours of state audit time to determine if an audit is
needed. Brandeberry-McKenna lobbyists have been meeting with members of the
state audit to explain that what the auditor will be asking for is the same thing that
will be submitted to DRCOG.

II.

o

Director McMullen asked who pays for the auditor’s time. Julie stated the
state will pay the auditor’s time.

o

Director Hoy asked if there was a full blown audit by the state that will pay
for that. Julie stated that RTD has to pay for that audit.

o

Director Williams made a comment that the information that we present to
DRCOG may or may not meet the standards of what the state is looking for.

o

Director Walker asked if it was just a financial audit. Julie stated yes. Director
Walker also inquired about if Representative Swalm has every attending a
RTD board meeting. Julie stated no but he has gotten several briefing from
RTD staff.

Local Government Issues
 Update on local government issues was presented by the CRL team. Roger
Sherman briefly went over February 2012 summary which was provided to the
Board of Directors. He stated that there is general support for FasTracks but

Summary of the Government Relations Legislative Committee held on Tuesday, April 3,
2012
Page 3
lots of questions about the FasTracks Hybrid option. He also referenced a
FasTracks resolution passed by the City of Arvada.
o

o

Director Bagley asked from a Board perspective, what is the number 1
issue that the Board needs to be sensitive about as it relates to
FasTracks. Roger stated he thought the board should not move too
quickly on the Hybrid option due to the unresolved questions that are
still out there.
Director McMullen asked if the CRL team has noticed any subtle
regional differences in what they have heard from the North versus the
South. Roger stated that the team hears a lot but is very careful not to
get involved in those disputes. CRL does not side with any side stating
that as a whole it is a regional issue. In general, the issues raised in the
North are also shared by the southern corridors as the whole region
needs to understand the impact and implications of the decisions made.
There is still great support for FasTracks but lots of questions to be
answered.

III.

Other Matters
Director Tayer expressed his appreciation to the Government Relations Committee
for making these meetings a part of the regular monthly rotation and feels it is
important to share this information.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – May 1, 2012

V.

Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:40 p.m.

