RTD Executive Committee - 4-15-2021 video
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: OK, you're good to go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the April 15
Executive Committee meeting for the Regional Transportation District. I'd like to do a roll call, if I might.
First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And we are missing Secretary Buzek, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Debra, is Debra going to be able to come?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, the General Manager should be getting on any time now. I see that
we have Board Member Peggy Catlin, Erik Davidson, Marjorie Sloan and our General Counsel Melanie
Snyder. And Steve Decker, I guess I don't know who you are, sir.
STEVE DECKER: I'm in IT support. I'm here in place of Brandy Hunter. She's out today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Oh, and I see that our-- I saw our
General Manager. There she is. General Manager, good morning. She's connecting.
All right, I think we're ready to go. The first thing on the agenda is to approve the April Board meeting
agenda review. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: So moved. Oop. Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I have first Vice Chair Guissinger and Second Chair Cook. OK, any
discussion on the agenda? All right, hearing none. I'm going to ask for a vote to approve. I'll just say, is
there anyone not in favor? Not hearing anything. The Board agenda is approved for April, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So I do have other matters, and before I go into other matters,
I'd like to turn it over to the General Manager if she has anything for us to discuss today. General
Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, good morning, Madam Chair, and good morning to all of you that are
assembled. At this juncture, I don't have anything to share. So thank you very much for the opportunity to
do so, though.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Counsel, do you?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. No, I do not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Thank you. The other agenda item is under other matters. Before I
go into the line acknowledgement, are there any other matters to come before this board?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Secretary Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: I wondered if since we won't be meeting again before the April 27 study session if
General Manager Johnson could give us an idea of how that will be structured and what you'd see as
outcomes and so forth. This is the Road to Recovery piece and so forth. Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Thank you very kindly. If I may, Madam Chair, address Director Cook? Thank
you. So Director Cook, the way this will be structured will be a session whereby I will orient the Board to
the design thinking process. The design thinking process is a five-phased approach, the first being
empathy. And so I'm going to take it from the vantage point in reference to engaging all of you and
qualifying what those five stages are.
The intent behind that, once I give descriptors-- and please be clear prior to that session, there will be
information pertaining to what I'm doing. I will send out a discussion item as we would with any other
gathering in which we are noticing, and I will provide a PowerPoint that will provide descriptors as well.
And so what I envision doing at that session is really engaging with all of you, asking from your vantage
point with the first stage of design thinking, is the empathy portion of that.
As we looked at the road to recovery, what are the customer pain points that you are cognizant of from
your various constituents and from your experiences, and any other engagement that you may have had?
So that's the first point in that. Once we understand that empathetic aspect about what the customer pain
points are, the next phase would be to define the problem we are trying to solve, which would germinate
from that empathetic ask of defining what the customer pain points are.
Then once we take those customer pain points, the second phase is defining the problem we're trying to
solve. The next phase of ideation, and so that's whereby we're going to have a collective discussion about
what are those ideas. The other two phases of design thinking are basically establishing a prototype
meeting. What are we going to do once we ideate around that?
And the last one is pilot to test it, but the only phases we're discussing in the meeting quite naturally is to,
through your engagement, get your feedback, and then basically, my team and I will take that and
leverage it, and bring forward options relative to how we address that going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I had a chance based on the description you've provided previously to Google
that, and I'm really interested in there. I think that's going to be a great, comprehensive approach, and it
strikes me that there may be resources that could help further once your staff takes it over. And I wanted
to tell you about that just based on a conversation with Marjorie Sloan.
There is a group at the Kennedy School at Harvard called the Behavioral Insights Group, and Marjorie's
Golden, her town where she was mayor, and Pete Buttigieg and South Bend, Indiana were the first six
cities to access this particular-- it's not an approach. It's really a set of tools that stem from the study of
the behavioral aspects of decision making, and they have applied it even to public transportation.
But the idea is to gain insights into those pain points and what influences people's behavior and decision
making after that. So it seems like it might-- I'm just offering it up as a possibility for you because Marjorie
in particular, I can also, as a graduate, maybe help to connect you to the resources of that school. I don't
believe it would cost us anything, and it might just be something and would be a way of connecting to the
resources and the people, in fact, who are plugged into the administration right now.

So if you'd like, and Marjorie, please chime in-- I hope I captured it properly-- but please chime in to the
extent you retain some context there. And they might be helpful to Debra and her staff as they work
through the design thinking process. Go ahead. Sorry about that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan. Oh, you're muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, it was just an approach that Golden took at one point, and it was remarkable
to have the context that we did at Harvard Business School, including Cass Sunstein, who started the
whole nudge behavioral economics movement. It appeared to me that transit was perfect for that, and I
did Google around and learned that Vancouver had done a behavioral insights project for transit that
looked remarkable.
I'm not sure how successful their efforts were because I couldn't find a follow-up report and what they
were going to do, but they're always looking for projects to do with their students and professors. And it
seems to me the transit in Denver could be one of those.
One of the real requirements that was difficult for the cities, particularly smaller city, was to have good
baseline data, and it's my belief that RTD has an amazing amount of baseline data that would make the
project much more successful and measurable.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So we can provide that information or whatever you like, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I appreciate that. Thank you both for that input. And one thing I would say, I greatly
appreciate it, and I say this tongue in cheek. You know, Harvard has this. The design thinking process
came out of Stanford, right. Not trying to put schools against one another, I'm just saying. But I appreciate
that, and so yes, you can share that.
But also, I want to keep in mind as we go forward with this in recognizing that we're on the precipice of
change as we go forward, and recognizing that many of you have engaged with our consultant TransPro.
I am going to have them listen in because this is a clear-cut nexus relative to what we-- what I am going
to qualify it as such-- intend to do going forward as we recognize what it is as we think strategically
around what we should be doing, right.
So I appreciate all of that and will take all of that into consideration, because none of this is prescribed as
we go forward. So I'm totally open to it, and I love to hear from all of you all, because quite naturally,
before I can address any of this, I need to understand what's the problem we're trying to solve for. And
that could be very well one of the options, so thank you very much, Director Cook and Director Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. I would just like to mention that it wouldn't hurt that Pete Buttigieg was deeply
involved in this pilot project that we worked on as mayors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director. I see someone with the last four digits on the line of
0758. Can you identify yourself, please?
DOUG TISDALE: Good afternoon, or good morning still, I guess. It's Doug Tisdale here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale. I didn't see. There is no name.
DOUG TISDALE: I know, and I'm sorry. I'm on the phone because I've got to do some stuff around the
house, so I need to move around. So I'll put myself on mute and interject if and when appropriate. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Oh, go ahead, First Vice Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I just had a question. I'm excited for this study session and I think it sounds
like a good way to roll it out, and it's the customer pain points kind of empathy piece, and then define the
problem. And then in the ideation, is that sort of brainstorming possible approaches and solutions and
things? Great. It's going to be fun.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, First Vice Chair. Yes, that's exactly what it is, because as we talked, I want to
hear from all of you guys, right. So like I said, it's not prescriptive, but once we hear about that, then we
can leverage that going to where the people are, as I always say. And if you're perceiving that to be their
pain points, what I envision is us asking our customers, OK, these are your pain points. Let's engage
around how we can solve them.
I mean, I'm just going to be forthright. We know what some of those are, but I want to hear what those are
as we talk about fares and we talk about this, that and the other. But what more specifically about the
fares as we look at all the different customer segments, right, because as we know, it's not a cookie cutter
approach. And we also know that I have made the decision to embark upon a fare equity in a fare study.
So we know, basically to where Director Sloan is, having some data there, right. What is that before we
start talking about what it is that we can do? So all of that basically is compounded. So yes, I'm excited
about it too, to be honest with you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Not that I would not be honest, but I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The fare study, do you have a plan for when that starts and how long that will take
and all of that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will be able to provide that. I am meeting with my cross-matrix team tomorrow. We
are going to talk about-- they're bringing me various options, recognizing I convened them two weeks
ago. I'm having my session with them tomorrow, so I received some information for me to read through.
And so you know, if we're at a place, then perhaps I say that in my oral report. That's my intent, to keep
you all apprised, but I need to see where we are first.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other matters to come forward?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, I'm not finding my little electronic hand this morning for some reason.
I just wanted to sort of get on everybody's radar for the future that the Accountability Committee is full
steam ahead right now, and their job is to have a final report. They want to do the public hearings in June,
do a draft public hearings in June and a final report by July 1.
That's what they're directed to do, and their charter or proposal says that we have 45 days after that July
1 date or whatever date they actually get it in, that the Board has to respond, and it has to either accept
their recommendations, i.e., put them into effect, or if we want to reject them, we have to state reasons.
So I guess it's sort of a planning thing right now that's coming up quickly, and so that will be a period from
July 1 to August 15 if that's when they get their report in for those who are planning our future here.
Those responses have to come from the Board, so we have to get a process in place.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. And it is going to be here before we know it, so I think it is a
good idea to talk about it, understanding that they are recommendations to the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Then while the Board has the duty to really review them and then respond
accordingly. So thank you for bringing that up. Yes, Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So quick question. Just maybe this is for Barbara. How would normally, we as a Board,
take up the recommendations and make a decision about our response and so forth?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I would think that we have to work directly with staff, because the one thing
that hasn't been brought forward to date, and I don't know if it's part of the plan, are any of the fiscal notes
to implement anything that they might recommend coming forward and how that fits into the overall
strategy that the agency will be putting into place through the sessions that have started up and will be
moving forward.
So I would ask the General Manager what her thoughts are in terms of what the review of those asks are,
and whether or not they would bring staff recommendations as to what we can or can't do financially, and
what we might be able to do just as process change as we look through making the strategic changes
that the Board and staff will be working on.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, are you looking for my response to Mr. McManus at this juncture?
So what I would offer up, recognizing for all intents and purposes while the Board would accept or opine
on said recommendations, it's incumbent upon me and my team to actually effectuate said
recommendations if they were to come to fruition. So with that as the backdrop, I see this very analogous
as to the approach in which we took relative to the state audit in reference to agreeing or disagreeing with
their recommendations and providing explanations. So
What I would offer is that my team and I look at a set of recommendations. We take it into account relative
to a practical and operational aspect of whether or not they're practical, and we would in turn, share that
information with all of you. We could discern about the appropriate forum in which to do that. I know
before we were emailing or what have you, but if you're going to take a public stance, then we can do that
in the form of a recommended action.
But I think that would be imperative in order to have everybody aligned around what it is that we're doing
as an organization, recognizing that really, any recommendation that would be implemented for all intents
and purposes rests with the auspices of an administrative aspect in reference to us implementing
whatever is before us. Does that make sense to everyone?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does, because we actually don't know what they'll be bringing forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have an idea, but we really don't know at this point where it's going to
shake out. So yeah, it does for me. Any other comments from anyone else? Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just say I agree. I think that's fine, and some of these things-- I know you're
attending all of these meetings, Debra. I've seen some suggestions from Deya Zavala around passes and
fairs. They were very early. Well, they were recent, but I don't think they're nearly final. But there may be
some stuff. It's just another heads-up. I think that's something that may be coming out from them soon
that may help as you're planning the fare study.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, and I appreciate that, Director Guissinger, because as you all know, and we
heard this Tuesday night from our Transit Equity Manager, before we can do anything, we have to have a
common set of facts, and that's getting the demographic information.

So that's first and foremost, so as we go through something such as this, recognizing that we really can't
leverage anything without having an understanding of our service areas from that minority population and
low-income population with some of these aspects that could clearly be our response.
While we accept whatever is being put forward, we have to do our due diligence and be in compliance
and things along those lines, because that's one thing, for certain, I think is incumbent upon all of us, is to
manage expectations. While we may embrace the whole aspect of a pass program, we have to do our
due diligence in order to get there to ensure it's a benefit for our constituency. So thank you for that,
Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And just one more question. Does the fare study also include passes? I know
you're looking at those. Is that a separate process, or?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Not at all, because when we talk about fares as outlined, that's an aspect of our
fares. So we have to ensure that we're looking to see what the benefactor is, and if we're trying to do
something as it relates to non-equity and equity communities recognizing it can't be a disproportionate
burden or disparate impact, all of that comes into play with the pass.
If, in fact, you look at the decision tree and see that there runs the risk of it being a greater than 10%
impact to that demographic, then we could leverage something to mitigate that. So that's why I'm saying
as relates to the fares, the pass is, of course, is all-encompassed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, General Manager, the only thing that I would add to that
conversation currently is, I know that the equity analysis was that 130% of the federal poverty level, but
the LiVE program was based on 185% of the federal poverty level. I just want to make sure that part of
the equation is in there because otherwise, I think it might get a little tricky as we start looking at the
figures, particularly for getting a recommendation from the Accountability Committee, because Dea was
part of that working group where we came up with the 185%. So just as an FYI.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I appreciate that, and we will look at the guidance and adhere to it as follows. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so now onto, really what I wanted to talk about was how we are
proceeding with our Board meetings. And one of the things that has struck me is that we need to
reinstitute the Pledge of Allegiance, I think that's really very important, particularly as we move forward,
and so I want to get that back on the docket. We stopped doing it when we stopped meeting in person,
but I really think it would be an easy way to ask a different Board Member to lead the Pledge of
Allegiance at every Board meeting so that's the first thing.
But the second thing is the whole issue around land acknowledgment. And let me start by saying that I
had been meeting with a group of Latino elected officials, and we had started this probably way last
March where we realized we really wanted to implement an acknowledgment of our ancestors and the
land acknowledgment. And so we started doing it at our live town hall meetings, and then Northeast
Denver leadership started doing it.
And then Denver's City Council adopted it as well as the state legislature, so I thought it would be a great
thing to bring forward to the RTD Board of Directors to take a look at. I did send out the land
acknowledgment really based on what has been utilized in the community, and sent it to the entire Board
and talked to most of the Board members and got a very favorable response back saying, yeah, let's do it.

I got some great insight and suggestions. One was that we only do it at the official Board meetings once a
month, which I think is proper. And then the second was I got three responses from three different Board
Members, two who thought that it was too long and wanted it shortened, and the other one who really
wanted to just look at some specific phrasing and words to make it softer.
And I really appreciate that insight, so today, what I'd like to do is to start with reading the original land
acknowledgment. And then I'm going to ask Director Rosenthal to read his rendition, his and Director
Sloan's. So the original one is that the RTD Board honors and acknowledges that the land on which we
reside is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne and Arapaho people.
We also recognize the 48 contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to the lands that make up
the state of Colorado. We honor elders past, present and future and those who have traveled and
stewarded this land throughout generations. We also recognize that government, academic and cultural
institutions were founded upon and continue to enact exclusions and erosion -- I can't say that word-- of
Indigenous peoples.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment working to dismantle ongoing legacies of
oppression, inequities, and recognize the current and future contributions of the Indigenous communities
in the district as we move forward. So that was what I sent out, and I'll tell you the majority of everybody
said this is OK.
But what I'd like to do now is have Director Rosenthal give us his rendition of what he thinks it should be,
which is a shorter version. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Chairwoman Rivera-Malpiede. So I kind of actually incorporated some
of your language and then kind of changed it around a little bit. And I also included, as you're going to
hear, all historically oppressed peoples. And considering the times we're in, how we are analyzing as a
nation also other oppressed peoples, particularly African-American people, so I included that as well. So
have a listen and see what you think. Thank you.
So the RTD Board acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional
territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to
these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited and stewarded these
mountains, hills and plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment
to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed
peoples, and recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, and then I'm going to ask-- and thank you so very much. And then I'm
going to ask Director Tisdale if he wants to talk about what his suggestions were.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, very much, Madam Chair. I don't have the language in front of me so I can't
give it verbatim. I appreciate very much Director Rosenthal's redraft. I think it accomplished some of what
I had expressed concern about. The issue was that the language in the original proposal talked about
governments and educational institutions and others being founded upon and continuing an
institutionalized racism.
I'll translate. It didn't say that, but in effect, founded upon and institutionalized and carried forward this
systemic racism. And I thought that was something that might be a little off-putting to a lot of people.
There can be debate about the degree on all of that, and so I had some softer language that I had
included. I don't have that, as I say, specifically before me at this time. I didn't realize I was going to be
able to participate in this meeting and speak.

But I think that Director Rosenthal's draft accomplishes some of that because it takes out that direct sort
of confrontational language, and that was the issue, because it's something that strikes me. I don't know. I
mean, we hear that the state legislature is doing this, and I believe we also heard at one point, the City
Council of Denver is doing it. I don't know if it's the same language, but I'm just troubled by that particular
phrasing in that one sentence. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Tisdale. The language was, we
acknowledge that there have been and continue to be institutionalized exclusions and erasures of
indigenous people and that it talks about legacies of oppression. I would just state for the record that the
Native American communities actually feel that that is not sugarcoating. That's exactly how the
Indigenous communities feel today.
But I will say this. I think, and I'd love to have this discussion with the Executive Committee and then take
it before the Board, is I really do like the rendition that Director Rosenthal and Director Sloan have pulled
together. I think it's concise. I think it's respectful. I think it's inclusive and I think it's proactive, so I guess I
would like to get any comments from anyone else on the Executive Committee of your thoughts. Second
Vice Chair Cook, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I feel like I need to defer to the thinking and knowledge and so forth that you have. And
so whichever you would go, I don't feel like I have enough grounding to institute my own judgment on the
thing. If I felt some discomfort along the lines that Director Tisdale and Director Rosenthal expressed, I'm
wondering if part of the point is that we need to recognize that.
So I guess I would defer to you if you think it's appropriate and would still be responding to that need and
important aspect. Then I would go with the wording that you suggested, but again, I just leave it to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Yes, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. I share Shelley's feeling that I would defer. I like what I think was an
expansion. It could have been in yours as well, but in Paul's version, where it referred to the indigenous
and other historically discriminated people. So I like the inclusion of the broader version. We have a lot of
equity concerns right now, and I think acknowledging those as broadly as we can is helpful.
I would have to absolutely agree with you, Director Guissinger. When I put this all together originally, it's
very specific to the native tribal lands here, but I do agree with you. In the environment in which we live, if
we can be more inclusive, I think that that really benefits us as a whole body. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I would just like to say I cannot take any credit for Director Rosenthal's
proposal, so I don't want anybody to think I had anything to do with writing that beautiful language, but I
particularly like the reference to RTD does, you know, that we have buses running along the territory that
the Indigenous people did for thousands of years before us. So I really appreciate Director Rosenthal's
draft.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thanks for allowing non-executive Committee Members
the opportunity to speak. I really like the two aspects of Director Rosenthal's proposed language. One is
that it is more inclusive, and number two, It's very positive and proactive and kind of softens the concerns
that Director Tisdale expressed.
And I think that if we're going to put forth a resolution that really ought to express a positive sense rather
than maybe impart some negative implications, I guess. So I really like Director Rosenthal's language. I
think it's very respectful, and that's, I think, what this Board wants to be, is very respectful. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed, and really, thank you all for all of these comments and for taking a
look at it, because I think this is all of our statement. It's not just one person. It belongs to the entire
Board. And thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook, for those kind words. I think that what I was trying to
move forward was the spirit of respect, of diversity, and I think that the recognition that Director Rosenthal
put together, he did do an absolutely beautiful job and really did reflect the transportation component,
which was one comment that I got from another Director.
So I think that that's the one I'd like to move forward for the Board to consider. So I'm going to ask
General Counsel what we need to do next.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. My understanding is that Board staff-- I believe it's
John McKay-- has put together a recommended action on this, and so he asked to bring this back to this
Committee. There'd be a formal vote on it and then it would get moved forward to the full Board for
consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I would respectfully ask Director Rosenthal if he would work
with me on the recommended action since he wrote this, and we could move this forward. And perhaps
Director Sloan, since you were part of it, since it takes, what, three Board members to move forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, and I'd be glad to work with you on it. And part of my initial conversation
with you, I know, Chairwoman, you were actually working on this for some time. And so you know, I look
at this as, I said before, a collaboration, and that I relied heavily on your verbiage and terminology and
concepts and outlook to come up with my version. So whatever I can do to support, I will support your
efforts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm good with that. Thank you all, and again, I really like particularizing it to RTD
rather than the entire state.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you. I think that's duly noted. OK, then what I'll do is get with
Ms. McManus, and we'll start pulling what it is that we need to pull together and make sure that our
General Manager takes a look at it before we move it forward to the Board. I want to thank you for this
conversation. I think this has been a great experience and it has been heartwarming just how respectful
and open the Board has been to acknowledging this component.
And I'm really excited about it for all of us and for the communities that we want to show respect to, so
thank you. Are there any other matters to come before this committee, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to mention that we went through the RFP process for the JEDI
training for the Directors. And there's a small group that will be meeting tomorrow with that vendor to sort
out the subject matter and the scheduling at least through the end of this year, so I just wanted to let this
group know that we were moving forward with that and where we were. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Question. So who is on this small group and how is that lead determined?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So there are two Co-Chairs, that were assigned by the General Manager, the
Board Office, myself, being in charge of scheduling and working with the Directors to get all of these
sessions put together, And Zamy Silva, Manager of Civil Rights, who will be managing the content, the
content that the vendor has brought forward and how best to bring that forward to the Board in an
organized fashion.
The other folks on that group are John McKay, Melanie Snyder and Kathryne Grove from EEO.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Ms. McManus, point of clarification. When you referenced the General Manager and
the Co-Chairs, I'm not clear on what that exactly means.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So instead of putting one Project Manager, you put two Project Managers, myself
and Zamy Silva.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, so when you said Co-Chairs, I was thinking from a Board perspective.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, no, no, just for that group. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then Mr. Rosenthal, just so you know, the RFP that went out, there was
a Committee that included two RTD directors, I believe, Directors Dishell and Bouquet.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, that's incorrect. There was only one Board Member. It was Director Dishell.
Director Bouquet was the alternate should there be a potential conflict.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So the Board did participate in the selection of the consultant who will be
putting this forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I could just add one other clarifying point, when this first came to fruition, I did
participate in a conversation and a meeting along with Ms. McManus with Director Lewis and Director
Dishell, and those two Board Members agreed that the most appropriate person to participate was
Director Dishell. So there was adequate conversation revolving around who that person would be as the
designee. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you and really appreciate that conversation, and follow-up. I look forward to
the JEDI sessions. So I did have some communication a little bit with the General Manager about when
we will be meeting in person. And so I understand that Mr. Meader is also looking at those issues of when
it's a good and safe and proper time. And I just wanted to follow up, and if we have any further insight or
follow-up on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Rosenthal. Thank you for broaching that. Yes, we did have a
conversation. I'm actually having engaged dialogue with my leadership team. There's quite a few different
factors to take into consideration. I know that there has been changes as it relates to the public health
order.
Some things that you all need to be cognizant of as we make an informed decision for the betterment of
the health, safety, and welfare of our employees, recognizing that we did have some sites that were
qualified as outbreak sites, all of that factors into the determining factor which as we go forward. So also
pursuant to the guides that have come forward, it's contingent upon the number of cases in our
communities, and as you may be aware, Those have increased.
There will be a more in-depth discussion that I'm having this afternoon with the leadership team. I will
keep all of you apprised. One thing for certain, as we go forward, I have asked for a timeline regarding
our phased approach, because keeping in mind that we are a safety-sensitive operation, we need to
ensure that we are having things in play that can enable us to deliver said service.
So I will keep you apprised. Right now, I'm speaking in circles because I just had this conversation as
related to that yesterday, and now we're having a meeting this afternoon. So that's where we are.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, General Manager Johnson. Really appreciate that. You're on
top of it, and just wanted to get an update. And I really appreciate your efforts and your team.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Director Rosenthal. Appreciate your comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Two entirely different topics. One relates somewhat to
opening up, and that would be scheduling of the retreats coming up. I think some of us have some
pending travel plans this summer and want to make sure that we can figure out how to participate in that.
And then the second piece I wanted to mention, at the Committee meeting on Tuesday night, we had a
fabulous equity analysis based on Title VI, and Director Cook and I both said that we had never seen
anything like that.
And it's true we'd never seen information presented that way before, but that's in no way to take away
from the work that Zami has done in the past. This was just a new way of presenting it, and I just did not
want her to feel that are my impression of that and praise of that particular effort, I didn't want that in any
way to detract from what Zami has done in the past, which has always been according to the law as I
understand it.
So I just would hope, General Manager Johnson, that you would relay that in a way were we trying to
criticize her previous efforts in praising Carl's new efforts. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director Catlin. I want to provide some
qualifiers for you. I am certain that Ms. Silva did not take your comments that way because you may not
be aware that Transit Equity never rested in Civil Rights. When I came into the organization just a few
months ago, I made the determination to move Transit Equity under the auspices of Civil Rights because
it formally rested in Transit Planning.
So recognizing that that never was housed in the area in which we were looking at things from a holistic
fashion, I don't believe that Ms. Silva took any offense to that. And more so, I would thank you for your
comments recognizing that Mr. Green had just started within the organization. Director Cook and I had a
similar conversation as this is something that is important to me, and recognizing that I spent a lot of time
working with them, I think this just elevates what can be done.
And one thing's for certain that I will say from what I've gotten from the team. It was quite appreciated
because they never had the opportunity to present in that fashion, whether it was good, bad, or
indifferent. So thank you very much, Director Catlin, because I know nobody took any offense to that. This
is just a new way in which we're doing things. So I think it's for the betterment for all of us, so I appreciate
you sharing that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Kudos to your team, and I guess I had forgotten that it did not reside in Civil Rights
before. So I very much appreciate the steps you took to bring that forward and the way you did it. So
thank you, and I'm glad that Zami did not take offense for that reason. I just was concerned about that.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Dr. Davidson, do you have anything before we sign off?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for calling on me. I appreciate the
opportunity, but just welcome the opportunity to listen in. I just would say I'm very excited about the
design thinking. As somebody from the tech world, it's hard not to get a little overly enthusiastic about
that, but no. Thank you for the discussion. I appreciate the opportunity to be here. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Yes, Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. This is just an idea I had as this conversation was going. I don't
know if it is something we can move forward, but if it's going to be a little while, which it very well may be,
before we can meet in person, I wonder if there's like a place with an outside happy hour or a park or
something where we could just keep it social so we could meet each other. We haven't met any of our
new comrades, and it might be nice just to put some kind of social event together if possible.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'll work with Ms. McManus to see if there's something we can do. What
do you think, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd be happy to.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's Director Rosenthal here. So I don't know if that would run up against any open
meetings act if you have three Board members present and such. So just to throw that in there. We could
invite the whole community, but I don't know how that would work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We could list it as open, but my understanding, and I guess the question for Ms.
Snyder, is that if we keep it social, that that shouldn't be a problem. Am I right there, Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Yes, as long as you're not going to talk about
[AUDIO OUT].
LYNN GUISSINGER: And it could be broader than the Board. It could be SLT. You know, I don't have any
specific thing in mind. It just might be nice to meet people.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, well, it's something we can discuss and see how we move forward,
but you know, I'm kind of hoping that we're going to be able to see each other soon, sooner rather than
later. But duly noted. I'll be keeping my finger on that pulse. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have one more thing, sorry, and then I have to go. The bell's about to ring at our
school. But I just have to say, really, kudos to Chairwoman Rivera-Malpiede, all the Chairs of all the
Committees, General Manager Johnson and her team. I think our meetings are going very well, and I
have listened to prior Boards. Not to slam prior Boards. Some of you guys have been on prior boards.
But I just have to say that I think we're functioning well. We're making decisions. We're making, in my
view, good decisions. I think we're respectful. I think we're listening to the community. I think we're doing
good outreach. So I just wanted to kind of give a sort of a finger on the pulse of how things are going, and
I just have to say I think they're going well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for saying that. I would be remiss if I didn't say that I appreciate
the leadership of General Manager, who has really streamlined our packets and our timing of how we
meet and the discussion items. I think that's really helped us put a really strong point of view of what we
need to accomplish, which I think has been part of the success of that, but I really appreciate that.
And then as usual, our staff, the Board Office, is stellar and on it constantly. And the IT people have been
phenomenal. When you think of all the logistics that goes into every meeting that we have, it is quite
extraordinary. So thank you. Thank you for bringing that up, and thank all of you. General Manager
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to say, Madam Chair and Director Rosenthal, thank you so much,
because this really is about the team that actually makes all this happen. And I want to say I appreciate
the acknowledgment, because coming into this organization, I was like, yikes, in the sense of the process,
and they have really been flexible and adaptable as we've talked about all of this. So I just wanted to
acknowledge that, because I can't do this by myself.

And recognizing I come with different perspective, they have been quick to pivot and to just engage, and
there's still opportunities as we go forward, quite naturally, right. And I asked you guys to be flexible and
agile too, because I think it makes us all a lot more efficient handling the people's business. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, any other matters? Seeing none. It is 12:21. I have a
motion to adjourn.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I see a first from Rosenthal, second from Guissinger. Anyone opposed?
OK, we are adjourned as of 12:21. Have a good rest of the week, everybody.
SHELLEY COOK: Bye, everybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

