2020-07-14
RTD Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
that everyone connected to this call please mute your phones and set your ringer to silent. I'm doing
that myself.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. You can visit
RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of the staff in attendance, for the sake of the record, if you would like to
be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, please announce your name and wait for me to call
you before proceeding. We have a lot of people on the phone line with us tonight, and speaking
out of turn only adds confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Please note, at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes later on this
evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So know that your time to speak will come. And if
possible, please hold your comments until that time.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. With
an uptick in the COVID-19 cases nationwide, it's more important than ever that we all follow these
practices, since doing so is for your safety as well as the safety of others.
Frequently and thoroughly wash your hands. Continue to practice physical distancing. Six feet is
the minimum. Minimize time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially when a
large number of people are present. Wear a mask at all times in public spaces such as office spaces
and grocery stores and while using public transportation. Thank you.
We have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first recommended action
regards the N Line bus and rail service changes final. I'll read that now.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the N Line bus and rail service plan package that's revised and summarized in attachment
A. This will result in a net neutral base system cost and an estimated N Line commuter rail service
cost of $24.7 million annualized.
And further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes. This recommended
action supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number one, successful delivery
of transit service, and task goal number five, increasing ridership. Do I have a motion?

TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Thank you, Director Buzek. I would now
ask, if staff has any presentations regarding this action, that they speak now. Please identify
yourself first.
MICHAEL FORD: Hi, this is Michael Ford, COO. And I wanted just to draw your attention. We're
looking for your approval tonight on the N Line bus and rail service change final. But I did want
to draw your attention.
This would be approving the plan with 20-minute headways. That will change when we get into
COVID, when we're going to start speaking in updates around September 2020 service change. So
I wanted just to contrast what you're approving is the plan tonight that we're going to be presenting
to you having to do with bus service and rail for the N Line.
However, when we get down to the updates on September 2020 service change, it will focus on a
COVID plan, which we're still in, which gives us flexibility and nimbleness to operate the service.
We have to bring this forward, as well. But under updates, we'd normally be bringing it to you as
a recommended action. But we're still in the COVID plan.
So I wanted to just to make that distinction for you tonight that you are approving or will look to
approve the N Line under the normal process. But when we do get to updates around September
2020, that will then focus on a COVID plan going forward. So you will see 30-minute headways
being recommended for that.
I just wanted to contrast and draw those distinctions tonight so there wasn't confusion when we
got down to the service change. And it will be brought to you as an update as opposed to
recommended action, because we're still in COVID. And I just wanted to clarify that point.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. And we're prepared to have a presentation. And I'll turn it over to
Natalie Handlos.
NATALY HANDLOS: Good evening. Thank you for having us. You can see most of this
presentation-- well, it's been about a year, but you have seen this. So I'll basically give you a quick
update and go through it. First slide is just introduction. Second slide, N Line alignment. So we're
looking at 13 miles of commuter rail; seven stations, which includes DUS; five new Park-n-Rides,
which means no Park-n-Rides at Union Station and at 48th of Brighton, but the other stations have
Park-n-Rides. And the travel time between DUS and Eastlake and 124th is approximately 29
minutes in each direction.
Next slide, for a timeline, we started this process back in November of 2018 and met with
stakeholders for over six months to come up with their preliminary service plan. That draft was

completed in June of 2019. We then went out to the public with a proposed North Metro Corridor
service plan and then, in August, completed that process.
We had some revisions and completed those in September. So now we're here, almost a year later,
and looking for approval of the final service plan and implementation, hopefully, in September.
Next slide, routes involved, the 12, the 41L, which would be a new one. The ones that are in blue
are routes that are basically new. Yet these are all from resources that were either already in routes
within this plan or based on the additional resources that we received out of the savings from the
G line.
So 41L would be a new and replace the RC. 48, the 49, which is the northern part of the 48. 72,
72W. 80, 80L. The 88, the 88L, which is the northern, eastern part of the 88. The 92, the 93L,
which was the 39L, and a portion of the 92. The 104, the 104L, which is the replacement for the
AA. The 112, 114, which is a new route. The 120, broken into two patterns-- the 120L, which is
still part of the 120, and then the 120N, also broken into two patterns. The 520, which would
replace the 120 within Brighton, and the RX.
Next slide, proposed bus routes at the station for Eastlake and 124th. We have the 120N-- or it'll
be actually named the 120E to reference that it goes to Eastlake Station-- 120L, and the 128E. At
Northglenn at 112th, the 12 and the 112. At Thornton Crossroads and 104th, the 93L, the 104, and
the 104L as well as the Thornton FlexRide.
The original Thornton at 88th Station will have the 80, the 88L, and the 92. Commerce City at
72nd Avenue will have the 41L, the 49, the 72, and the 88. And 84th Avenue and Brighton at
National Western Center will have the 48. It will not go into the stations. It will stay on street.
Next slide gives you a brief overview of the service frequencies and service level. It's a little bit
small, but if you want more detail on those, I think we might have provided this as a slide
separately. Yep. So it should be in the Board packet.
The next slide, so just reviewing the route adjustments that basically came out of the public
process. One full route replacement, the 39L, which, as I mentioned earlier, would be part of the
92 and the 93L.
There are no changes to the routes 104X, 120X, or 122X. Route RX would be curtailed at US 85
and Bridge Street, and route 520 would replace that current portion of the RX as well as route 120
within Brighton. There will be timed meets at US 85 and Bridge Street Park-n-Rides in order to
allow for those transfers for those who used to ride the RX within Brighton. They can now take
the 520 and catch the RX for transfers.
Route extensions to the station and basically no other changes would be to routes 12, 48, 72, 72W,
80, 88, 92, 104, 112, 120, 128. And then new routes through adjustment of current routes, as I
mentioned on the previous slide-- the 41L, the 49, the 88L, the 93L, the 104L, which is the
replacement for the AA, 120L, and 520.

The one really, really new route would be the 114, which would operate between US 36 and
Church Ranch by our 112th Front Range Community College on street to Wagon Road Park-nRide. So it would be a new connection between I-25 Corridor and US 36.
Next slide. So in short, the adjustments out of the proposed to the final that we're looking at now,
we missed, unfortunately, the mention of the 39L in the original proposed plan. So we have
included that in the final. The route 120L, through public input, they asked that we do not provide
Sunday service, that the demand is for weekday, Saturday, and that we would allocate those inservice hours otherwise where better needed.
The route 128 was asked to be split into two patterns, one that basically covers the current routing
through the neighborhood and then the other that would stay on 128, which means that the 128
would operate half hourly between US 36 and Broomfield Station and Lamar. And then it would
split into hourly service, one through the neighborhood as it currently does into Wagon Road, the
other staying on 128 and going to 124th Eastlake Station.
Route 120, the same thing. Through public process, we were asked to split the route into two
patterns-- south of 120, that would still go into Wagon Road, and then the 120W and then the 120N
that would continue onto 124th Eastlake Station, which means 120 would provide 30-minute
service to Wagon Road between US 36 and Broomfield and then would be hourly to 124th Eastlake
Station.
Next slide, just for overview. As with the service plan as Michael Ford mentioned just a few
minutes ago, service frequency for rail in the AM and PM peaks would be 20 minutes. As we're
moving forward with Saturday service levels with the implementations for COVID of September
20, that would then be 30 minutes.
And next slide, that would be it my end. Any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Handlos. Nicely done. I'll go to the Directors and ask if there
are any questions from them. Let's do this alphabetically. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I want to thank Nataly Handlos for her hard work on this
service plan, also. I want to thank Michael Ford, Paul Ballard, and the other rest of the team with
regard to everything happening on the N Line. I know I've spoken to a lot of stakeholders up here
with regard to the COVID schedule and keeping with all of our other commuter rail lines. And
everybody is on board and just thrilled to have this happening. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had my questions answered by staff earlier today.
Thank you very much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook, are you with us?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I am. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And no questions. Thanks to
all for-- looks like a good service plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. That was great. It's a long time coming. I was
just wondering about the 136. Is that a BRT?
NATALY HANDLOS: Which one? I'm sorry, the 136? I'm sorry. The US 36-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
NATALY HANDLOS: I'm sorry, I must've said US 36. That would be the FF, the US 36 BRT
Corridor.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. OK, that's all. Thank you.
NATALY HANDLOS: Yes, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that clarification. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions, thanks very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually have a few questions. The first question
I have is around the summary for the public hearing, particularly as it pertains to the changes to
the other bus routes. And I'm just curious as to what kinds of outreach is planned to those particular
patrons to give them updates about the changes to the route.
NATALY HANDLOS: For after the-- as to what the final is, or as we proceeded through public
process for input?
SHONTEL LEWIS: As you proceed to a public process for input.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. To answer the question, our normal process that we go through is, through marketing,
we put together materials that do a better job of describing exactly what the final service changes
are.
Those have not been put out yet. We're, of course, awaiting the board's vote on the service change.
So when that is done, there will be written materials that will be available for our customers.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you expect that that process is going to look different considering COVID
and the precautions that folks are taking to-- go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: Well, the written materials-- and again, this is Jessie Carter-- the written
materials, of course, we would probably expect them to be taken up by fewer people given what
our ridership to people venturing out is. We're seeing that less these days. But the information that
we put on the website will be available and consumed at more or less the normal rate.
NATALY HANDLOS: We also have talked to the stakeholders, and they are all willing to help
spread the word. And so the materials that we have, they're willing to disseminate at locations
within their communities.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And if I might add-- sorry, this is Jessie Carter again-- a lot of the
changes, the nature of the changes, Nataly went through them, like the route 120 and the
introduction of the new route 520. Those routes are playable to each other, because they are
basically the former route of itself.
So some of these changes will make a lot of sense to the current customer. So we expect their
understanding to be, heck, even better than mine, for sure. So with that, we're hoping that there's
buy-in from the customers, because some of these ideas are things that have been floating about
the community for a long time now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then Jessie, you talked about ridership. And I'm curious what the
projections are for what the ridership projections are for this particular service. And how does that
compare to other services?
JESSIE CARTER: Well, as far as the ridership, I'm going to have to get back to you. And I will
provide that information by tomorrow with the projected ridership. I can't remember offhand on
the N Line. That'll be less than 10,000 per day. But it's how many?
NATALY HANDLOS: A little over 5,000.
JESSIE CARTER: A little over 5,000 per day is what the team is telling me. So we're going to go
with that. And we'll get you official numbers tomorrow, for sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is that pre- or post-COVID?
JESSIE CARTER: That would have been the-NATALY HANDLOS: That's the 30-minute frequency.
JESSIE CARTER: --the 30-minute frequency, so that's an adjustment to the 20-minute frequency.
That was built off of the modeling effort.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry. You cut out a bit. Say that again, Jessie? I'm sorry.

JESSIE CARTER: Sorry. That was an adjustment to the original modeling effort that was
proposed, that 20-minute frequency. So 30 minutes produced a smaller number, so it's just over
5,000 rather than what I believe was somewhere around the 8,000 range.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I'm guessing that's taking into account that we would only expect to have
no more than 30 people per train, per rail car?
JESSIE CARTER: I see what you're saying. And no, we have not had a chance to modify the
projection based on COVID. That's something that has not [AUDIO OUT].
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That would be incredibly helpful for me. I am curious as to how those
numbers might change and what the actual ridership could-- as best as we might be able to predict,
what the numbers look like considering the strain of resources and [AUDIO OUT].
JESSIE CARTER: OK. OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. We will make an effort to provide you at
least what we can carry based on the capacity requirements of our COVID protocol. We'll get that
number to you fairly quickly and to the entire Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Jessie. I appreciate it. And if you could let me know how
that changes in terms of cost-- if that, not how-- I won't assume that it does. But if it changes in
terms of cost, I'd really appreciate that.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. We will make that effort.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. All right, thank you so much. That's all I have, Madam
Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis.
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: I hate to interrupt. I apologize, but I've noticed a typo from our annual costs
for operations. It actually should read $27.4, not $24.7 million. I apologize for that. But I just have
been alerted by staff that that was a typo, and it should read $27.4 million, not $24.7, which is in
the packet. So I'd like to correct it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. Duly noted. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: I appreciate that.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I'd like to point out that I think Director Lewis's questions are items that
everybody on the Board would like to know. So if you guys and girl, Ms. Handlos, if you would
make sure that everybody gets that information, we'd be grateful.

NATALY HANDLOS: We will do that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK I think, Director Lewis, you're good for now?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am. Thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. No comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I have one question, and that would be towards the actual language. I'm
sorry. I'm bringing it back up. I was down further in the agenda. It says, "to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments." I'm just asking if, at this point, do we
know of any substantial contract amendments that would be necessary outside of what has been
described in the bus service changes? And those are the things that are laid out here. Do we see
anything else that might be substantial?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. I do not see any outstanding amendments that would need to be part of
this. That is my response to Director Menten. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And then I do have one other. I'm glad to have that correction
in place, because I was focused on the dollars. And the most recent or the easiest to find mid-term
financial plan cash flow that I found in my hands showed, at that time in 2020, we expected $31.2
million in operating expenses and the 2021, $28.1 million. And so what you're saying is even with
a corrected $27.4, we are still below those projections, and there's nothing that we're not being
informed about right now?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, Michael Ford, COO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, the $27.4 is what the original annual cost for the operation is. And I'm
not aware of any other extenuating cost or upgrades to that service at all. I would defer to our CFO,
but my understanding is that's what the record shows. And that's what we've been moving towards
since the inception of this service.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all my questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Williams. I don't have anything right now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. One of the advantages of being
alphabetically disadvantaged is that most of the questions that I had have already been asked.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I can totally relate. Did Director Walker join us? Hearing nothing, I'm going
to assume he's not with us at the moment. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Congratulations and special thanks to Jessie,
Nataly, Michael, and many others for this plan. It's been great to have the opportunity as a new
board member to digest the scope of these changes needed with the N Line for a year.
I would just ask that we make sure that we get the information to our cities along the route from
Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn, and even Brighton so all of those folks have the
information up to date as quickly as possible for their constituents. Again, thank you for the
presentation, the hard work. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have any discussion here?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: No, I have no comment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. I have none either except to repeat what everyone has said.
We are very, very happy to see this happening, and we appreciate all the hard work that has been
done. And as such, if there is no further-JEFF WALKER: Excuse me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Whoops. Yes, sir? Yes? Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I dialed into the wrong number. Sorry, I apologize.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Do you have any questions or comments on this discussion?
JEFF WALKER: Kind of. One is I really like the grid system as opposed to most everything north
of I-70. The other one is regarding ridership.
I know a while ago, we talked last year. We talked about the discounted fare for the riders on the
N Line. One of the reasons was to find out the effective cost, fare, on ridership. And I'm wondering
what that holds anymore. And this might not be the right time for that conversation, but it popped
into my head when I was reading this yesterday. Does that still-- does that mean anything?

JESSIE CARTER: As far-- sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. Director Walker, are you asking what the impact of having a higher fare has on
ridership?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, that was one of the reasons given for the discounted fare on the N Line,
the local fare for the whole stretch of the N Line. And I'm just wondering if that means anything
anymore given our current circumstances.
JESSIE CARTER: So this is a question of BC versus in the moment, and BC is Before COVID.
JEFF WALKER: Right.
[LAUGHTER]
JESSIE CARTER: And looking at the effects of elasticity, I'm going to ask that Jeff Becker get
into that in the updates. We were talking about that earlier today. And he had some more points
that he could add more so than I could at this point. So I will ask if you can remind us that you
have that question when he goes over the 2019 service performance section in the updates.
JEFF WALKER: Sure. Thank you very much. That's all I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker.
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir? Who's speaking?
JESSIE CARTER: Jessie Carter again. And I'm sorry. I have to apologize. There's one more update
that we'd like to add to the Board paper, and that is we have conducted the Title VI evaluation. It
has been completed. And we've found no findings of disparate treatment. And the Board paper
will be updated to reflect that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. We appreciate that. OK. I'm going to go through and
ask if we can take a vote on this action so that we can move it on down the line. And I'll start
alphabetically again and ask you for a yes or a no. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, and I would really love the information before our final Board meeting,
please, about the ridership projection.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams? Yeah. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Looks like we have a unanimous decision here. And congratulations to all on
the N Line. We're happy to see that happening. OK. We have another recommended action tonight.
Do I need to say any more? There's 15 yes votes, no no votes, and no extension. The motion passes.
The next recommended action is on the ad hoc committee on the code of conduct final report and
the revised code of conduct. The action states that the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors presents
to the Operations and Customer Service Committee a motion to approve the final report of the ad
hoc committee on code of conduct and the revised RTD code of conduct, which is attached.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager goals-- core goal number two,
strong and ethical leadership, and task goal number four, to strengthen safety and security. Do I
have a movement, a mover and a second?
KEN MIHALIK: So moved, Mihalik.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved. Second, Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I hear Director Mihalik as the mover and Director Lubow as the second.
And I will open this up for discussion. If there is any staff that would like to present pertinent
information, please speak now.
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Meader. Go ahead.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. So yes, this is the final report out of the ad hoc committee on the
code of conduct. Just as a quick reminder, the code of conduct, the ad hoc committee was put
together for the purpose of reviewing the impact of the code of conduct. The original code was
passed in 2016. Back in April, there was some discussion about changing some of the elements of
the code. And that led to the creation of the ad hoc committee.
The ad hoc committee was basically looking at the code to ensure three things-- one, that it
continued to work toward preserving the safety, cleanliness, and accessibility of RTD's transit
system-- [COUGHS] excuse me-- in a manner that is fair and respectful to patrons, that it was
enforced fairly, consistently, and equitably, and it addressed the public safety needs of our
employees, riders, and individuals from vulnerable populations using the system-- [COUGHS]
excuse me-- during the COVID-19 pandemic.
So basically, the committee was comprised of Board members, senior staff at RTD, and
representatives from the city, mental health organizations, Coalition for the Homeless, Downtown
Denver Partnership, and some other groups. We went during a series of six meetings. And we
reviewed all of the elements of the code, ended up changing about 20-plus specific revisions to the
code. And the document that you have in front of you contains all of those revisions. So we're
bringing it to you to review one last time and then asking you to approve this to move forward as
the new and improved code of conduct.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Meader. I'm going to ask the Directors if they have comments
or questions on this. And I will again go alphabetically. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just one comment, and that's, I think you all did a great job of collaborating
and working together. And I wanted to thank our Chair for putting together that committee that
worked very effectively and very efficiently to get it done in this timely fashion. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thanks, Madam Chair. I have a question, maybe a clarification and
confirmation to Mr. Meader. And that is that in this code of conduct, we state that during the
COVID period, passengers are required to wear face masks/coverings. Is that correct?
MICHAEL MEADER: We do not state that in the current document. There was some discussion
about adding some language to that effect, but it's not actually stated in the document you have in
front of you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is that it, Director Folska? You're good?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, it is. Yes, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I echo the thanks and the comments from Director Catlin. And that's all I
have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to thank Chair Rivera-Malpiede and
our partners who participated on this committee. While it wasn't an easy discussion and it got
messy sometimes, I really appreciate that we were able to find some consensus. And while this

document isn't perfect, I think we really did a great job of finding consensus and listening to the
concerns from different partners. And so well done, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and no questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I also wanted to second the approval for this document and not
only the document, but the process. I really, really appreciate the inclusivity of this process and
how RTD gathered all kinds of stakeholders from all walks of life to come together with us and
address these important issues of civil liberties and safety. So I'm very impressed by the process,
and I'm impressed by the document. And I, too, wanted to thank Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I do have a question that's first related to section 3 with
prohibited conduct. And the very first one, item one states being within any RTD fare paid zone
without prior payment of the proper fare. So I'll use an example as I did last time we took a look
at this as a whole.
And that is if I was exercising my First Amendment rights under the US Constitution, and I
happened to be within a fare paid zone. And let's say I was circulating a petition. Would the First
Amendment under the US Constitution trump item number one?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, Director Menten, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. There is another section in the code that allows for or speaks to being
in one of those areas that's an approved area for an activity such as that. So if, in fact, you have
gone through the process and the facilities use policy and the process for applying for a permit and
that permit is approved, then you can be in one of those areas to hand something out.
Some of the fare paid zones may not be necessarily designated as a public forum. But if you do
have a permit and it's been approved through our policy, you can be there to perform that act.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, Mr. Meader. The First Amendment doesn't speak to having a
permit. And it pretty much goes east to west coast, north to south. So I have to disagree with that
answer. I don't see the improvement in this document in relation to the First Amendment in the US
Constitution. And I think this is a flop.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely.

MELANIE SNYDER: So Director Menten, you definitely raised a good point. And certainly the
First Amendment is going to trump every other law-- state statute, federal statute. Our Constitution
is the primary law of the land. But I think it's important to point out that is always the case in any
kind of statute or rule or policy or code of conduct. And so we don't always add a reference to the
Constitution, because it's there throughout.
So I think while Mr. Meader was referencing department requirements, really, this entire code
would have to be enforced in compliance with the First Amendment. That's already something that
is taken into consideration for enforcing the code of conduct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could I count that as a guarantee that somebody exercising the First
Amendment right will not be harassed-- peacefully exercising their First Amendment right will
not be harassed, will be not ticketed, will not be asked to leave, and will not have to go through
any complications preventing them from exercising their First Amendment right?
MELANIE SNYDER: And what I'll say-- of course, I can't vouch or guarantee for our conduct.
But I would defer to Mr. Meader and his team. I have to expect that they would be enforcing this
code consistent with all of the constitutional rights that are available to our riders and, really,
everyone in the public.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. And this is Mike Meader, again, Chief Safety and Security Officer,
if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Yeah, and I should have certainly prefaced my comment before that
about the permits with, you know, absolutely, the First Amendment right is a constitutional right.
And really, what I was trying to answer was we do have a policy in terms of, if you're going to
hand some of those things out, we'd like you to go through that policy just so we're aware, and that
piece is approved. But we're going to apply any kind of enforcement understanding and in
compliance with any constitutional rights somebody may have out there.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. As a follow up, I likely will vote no on this. What I would like to
see is that we put a priority statement within this code of conduct that we respect our constitutional
rights. And even if it may be, let's say, a constituent who doesn't have any intention of riding the
system but is simply sitting there and gazing at some very expensive piece of artwork or could
actually gone into service and they're sitting there, they're not complying with this. So I'll mention
those two examples, and I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. We appreciate your outlook always. Director
Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll say that it was, I think, beneficial to have the
various outside groups involved in this. It was refreshing to me, and this kind of goes along the
lines of what Director Menten was just talking about. But Chief Grado and Mr. Meader had, on a
routine occasion, talked about how the emphasis is on, at least as far as enforcement of these things,

trying to make this-- well, what objectives will also make this more people centric. But from the
enforcement standpoint, it was education and de-escalation and these sorts of things as far as the
steps they would-- the process they'd take. So that was good to hear.
But I do think Director Menten had some good points about access of fare zones. I wonder if it
isn't the equivalent of a hardened facility where you would need a fare to get into something like
that. And we have a virtual barrier on some of those locations. So maybe it's taking a look at the
boundary of the fare zone. That might address that idea, artwork or just walking through it to get
somewhere else. But overall, I think it was a good several weeks. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Mihalik. Appreciate that. And appreciate your time spent
with the committee. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have two comments. First, in response
to the prior question from Director Menten, I will just point out a very important case, and that's
Pruneyard. Pruneyard is the United States Supreme Court case addressing free speech rights and
opportunity for people to politicize or protest at shopping centers, the Pruneyard Shopping Center
being the subject of that particular case.
And the Supreme Court reaffirmed that landowners may always control time, place, and manner
for free speech exercise. So the notion that there would be an uninhibited, unhindered opportunity
to speak whenever, however, and wherever is simply wrong. So there are legitimate, limited
constraints that a landowner may impose upon exercise of free speech on that person's property.
Second thing is I was struck at the great job that the committee did. There were lots of diverse
groups of all sorts involved heavily in this process. And I am very pleased to see that process go
forward such that a consensus was arrived at and that, hopefully, we will not be subject to any
legitimate criticism of not having taken all of those concerns into account. So congratulations to
all who engaged in that process. Thank you, Madam Chair. That's all that I had.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Director Tisdale, just the case that I was going to say. I'm kidding. No,
I don't have any-KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
JEFF WALKER: I don't have any comments or questions other than I'm very comfortable in what
I see and what I've read, and I haven't heard anything negative about the process. And often, no
news is good news. So job well done, I think. And that's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. It certainly was a privilege to serve on this
committee. It was messy, and it was difficult at times. But it was a tremendous effort by a diverse
group and very civil and respectful and enlightening.

And I appreciate the efforts, especially by Chief Grado and Mr. Meader, working so cohesively
with the divergent views of the group. I was very proud to be involved with them and the other
members of the committee. And kudos to our Chair for putting this group together and especially
the fashioning of the roster of those that participated. It was outstanding. Thank you much.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. You know what, I would just like to say, this was really an
incredible experience to be part of. And I learned so much about myself sitting at this table. One
of the things that I realized is how easy it is for us to live in our own jargon and in our own silos
and to remember that the public doesn't know what we mean. Nor do they know what a trailblazer
is.
I cannot thank my board members enough who sat on this committee. I think that your insight and
your willingness to listen and to discuss and to be flexible-- I'd like to take this time to thank you,
Chair, for being on the committee, Director Lewis, Director Mihalik, and Director Whitmore. I
thought you guys were a dynamic team. I'd also like to thank Director Tisdale, because he called
in and sat in on a couple of meetings. And I believe Director Menten did, as well.
But I would also like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to Evan Dreyer, the
Deputy Chief of Staff for the Mayor's office for the city and county of Denver; Police Chief Paul
Pazen for the Denver Police Department; Britta Fisher, who serves as the Executive Director of
the Department of Housing Stability and the Chief Housing Officer for the city of Denver; Gary
Bryskiewicz-- I can't say his name very well-- Chief Paramedic from Denver Health; Aubrey
Hasvold, the Advocacy Program Director for the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless; Denise
Maes, Public Policy Director for the ACLU of Colorado; Carleigh Sailon, Program Manager for
Crisis Intervention Response Unit for the Mental Health Center of Denver; Bob Dorshimer, the
Chief Executive Officer from Mile High Behavioral Healthcare; and Kate Barton, the Senior Vice
President and Executive Office of Special Projects for the Downtown Denver Partnership; and, of
course, our team, Mr. Meader, Chief Grado, Mr. Ballard, Mr. Ford, Barbara McManus, and John
McKay.
I mean, the number of hours that this took was amazing. But I think the collaboration and the
discussion and the commitment to our community was really shown through this process. I was
thrilled to be part of it, and I learned so much. And so I would just like to say thank you to
everybody for allowing this ad hoc committee to move forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also learned a lot, partly maybe that there's things
that I don't always get on the first pass. And I was grateful to be part of it. And I'm glad that we
put the work into it, that we looked at our community and at our riders, and that we came to this
document. So now I would like to see that we move it forward. That is what the recommended
action is about.
So I'm going to go through the directors and ask for your vote. And I'm going to go-- I could go in
reverse alphabetical order, give everybody a minute to get their act together. I'm still going to do
the Chair last. So Director Whitmore, that makes you first.

TROY WHITMORE: I vote yes. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, ma'am. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to vote yes, and I have a question for
clarification from our General Counsel that could be sent to me and the Board in an email as a
response. And that is, while I appreciate Director Tisdale's comment on private landholders and
what their rights and duties are, I'm wondering what the distinction is-- [CLEARS THROAT]
excuse me-- between a private landholder and a public agency that's owned by the people. Thank
you, and I am a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. I had that thought, also. So we will ask that that
go, and I'll count you as a yes. Director Cook? I know you're there. You've got to figure out the
Mute, Unmute.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I had it unmuted. Can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear you. Can you hear me now? I hear you now.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, yes. I said yes. Sorry about that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes. And you can't go into a theater, a crowded theater, and shout out "fire." So
it's not an absolute thing that we're talking about here. And further, you couldn't expect somebody
to enter either a bus or a train car and crawl on the lap of the operator so they could use the
microphone so they could make a speech about whatever issue they wanted to talk about. So you
can make reasonable rules and not run afoul of the First Amendment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Thank you, sir. Having run through all of the directors, I'm
going to count 14 yes votes, one no vote, the no vote being Director Menten. No abstentions, and
the motion passes.
We've now moved out of the recommended action section of tonight's program. And we are going
to move into some updates. We have a variety of those, and we have a variety of staff involved in
those. As quick as I can get through to what I'm doing next, I will. The first update is the September
2020 service change update.
And I would like to remind the Directors that if you have read through your packet and you have
not any questions, it's fine. We're OK with it. We will not ask staff to go through a lot of the
information that has been presented. It's available to us all and to the public. So can I ask who is
going to speak to the first update?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford. I will just reiterate what I said earlier that
we are providing you an update on our September service change. We are going to continue to be
under COVID, so we want to be flexible and nimble where you have a few modifications. As was
mentioned earlier, you will see under COVID that the N Line will go to 30-minute headways. And
there's some other modifications that are minor that are in your packet.
And keeping with the earlier communication, we just want to update you on those changes. We
will be working with the union to do a service change. But again, these are just updates, as we
have previously mentioned, under COVID so we can remain flexible and nimble to provide service
and make adjustments where needed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I'm not sure. I guess I'll go through everybody real quickly
on every one of these. It seems a shame, but if there are-- and let me try this. Are there any
questions?

JESSIE CARTER: Chair Williams, I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter. I wasn't able to speak quick
enough to get on before you were about to close.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Go ahead, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: So with that, I want to have mention of some particulars about this service
change. Of course, the long-awaited N Line service plan is the one thing that we want to take
advantage of this Operator vote and actually put into place. But there are also some minor schedule
adjustments and changes to allow for detours and changes to route that will occur and also trying
to make room for the upcoming school year.
We do know that some school districts are actually asking the students to come back and that there
are some that are still working on both their adjusted bell times and whether or not they're going
to have a callback of students as a whole. So that's something that we're hoping to get to with
September.
Also, looking forward, looking towards January 2021, we'll need to pivot to the next service
change, which will somewhat embrace what's going on with Reimagine. And to that, I'd like to
turn it over to Bruce Abel for a couple of notes.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Jessie.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madam Chair. There have been some questions regarding a timetable
for activities that a number of Board members have raised. And just wanted to refresh the timelines,
as Jessie said, moving forward for the January runboard. We do have a July 28 study session
scheduled with the Board. And at that time, we anticipate receiving our next financial forecast just
prior to that meeting.
So at that meeting-- and Heather will most likely make reference to this in the F and A Committee
later on today this evening-- but at that meeting, we will be in a position to discuss the most recent
forecast which we received from the Leeds School of Business. At that point in time, we will be
asking the Board to give us direction as to what forecast we will be building from as we look to
develop both the mid-term financial plan and the January runboard, because the revenue stream is
going to be that which determines both the mid-term financial plan and the January runboard.
At the August 4 study session, we again have a study session scheduled with the Board. We will
be in a position to begin socializing with the board the findings of the COVID Fiscal Response
Task Force. That effort is designed to help us identify where we can identify cost savings not in
the service arena but in our organizational overhead arena.
So between the forecast revenue stream and the cost savings identified from the task force, we will
then be in a position to identify the revenue stream available to support the January runboard. And
during the month of August, the January runboard will be completed, be developed, and completed
by Jessie and his team. And in September, that proposed January runboard will be communicated

to the Board and taken to the public, as we will be looking for an October adoption of a service
plan for the January runboard.
So I just wanted to lay out that path forward, because a number of Board members have spoken to
that issue. So some very critical dates for us will be, again, the July 28 study session, when we talk
about the next forecast and ask the board to give us direction as to which forecast we will use to
design from, the August 4 study session, when we begin to socialize the task force findings for
overhead cost savings. And then we will move forward with the development of the January
service change based on the finances available from those two conversations.
So thank you, Madam Chair. I just wish to present that to the board in response to some questions
that have been presented recently.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Abel. I appreciate that. Ms. McManus, I believe that we
recently got an updated calendar that includes all of dates. Is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I wanted to point out that if there are any questions about the statements
that Mr. Abel has just made in relation to what we will be doing when, those are included in that
calendar that we published recently. And it is subject to change, but right now, that's what we're
working from.
So I'm going to ask if the staff is finished at the moment. We have a number of other items. Are
there questions on this particular discussion at this time? I'll go through pretty quickly, I guess.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Briefly, thank you, Madam Chair. Jessie, are we maintaining the added
service we added in-- sorry, the added service brought forward a few weeks ago in response to
demand? I think it affected the 15, the 16, and the 0, the 48.
The 0 that first week had the bigger, extended vehicles. But I haven't seen them since, and they've
been running pretty full. Can you just right quick fill me in? I'm sorry I didn't call you about it
earlier. I was working on some other things, as well.

JESSIE CARTER: OK. So the service that was implemented-- I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter,
Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. The services that were actually implemented were
the 15L, the route 40, the route 105, and the route 121. We had some changes to vehicle type on 0
and 120X.
So those changes, as far as I know, have been put in place. We did want to look at changing the
route 16, fitting additional service on the 16 and 31, but chose not to based on our inability to
actually dispatch operators to cover other services that were overloading. So as far as I know, those
services are still continuing to run. But I would look to Assistant General Manager Fred Worthen
to fill in on the actuals on the street.
SHELLEY COOK: No, that's OK. If y'all could just double check on that 0 since I haven't seen
the extended one and I've seen up to 16, 18 people aboard, that'd be great.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, will do.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Did I hear an answer there?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I said no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a question about the school trippers,
because I received this question a few times as some districts are preparing to go back to school.
Particularly, I've received it in the context of high school students. And I just wondered if someone
could speak a bit about that. How are we preparing in the event that our local school districts do
go back to school in August in the context of COVID and the number of folks we'd like to see on
our services and what safety precautions we might be taking?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling.
Director Lewis, as you may recall, we normally have our school trippers that are listed on the
regular public timetables. We currently do not have that. At the same time, we don't have all the
information necessary to know when the bell times are. We're still trying to collect that from the
various school districts.

So it's our hope we're actually going to provide the school trippers service as needed using special
service orders to dispatch operators to cover trips on the routes that we see the most frequent
overloads. That includes the route 65 on Monaco. It also includes the route 40 and the route 21
and also on the route 1/1W.
So those routes, we're going to look at first, because those are the ones we historically have high
levels of students using transit. And as far as safety protocols, I'll have to turn to someone else.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Are we good there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, I am curious, because I've had a few inquiries about the safety
precautions. So I'm thinking about me as a high school student riding the bus with my friends. And
if we're limiting the number of our patrons on our services, which we absolutely should be, what
precautions are we putting in place or safety measures are we putting in place in the event that
students are going back to school-- recognizing that, for instance, the bus that's on Monaco carries
way more than 15 students?
FRED WORTHEN: So Madam Chair, this is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So these are supplemental trips. They are not extra services that are strictly
for high school students. We have high school students that ride all different trips, so this is no
different than a regular route. All the normal protocols that we're following right now on our
services will be followed on these services, as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But the difference, however, is when you-- is the next-- because I think about
the 15. I take the 15, the 15L into work. And a lot of times, East students get on the 15 or even the
20. And they pack themselves in there.
And so I would imagine we wouldn't want our operators to be put in a position where they're telling
students, hey, no, you can't get on this route. And so I would imagine that there are additional
safety precautions that we're thinking about as an agency in the event that students go back,
understanding that how students typically travel on our services are similar to how sardines are
jammed into a can. And so I'm just curious of how we're thinking about that.
FRED WORTHEN: So this is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. Again, these are services
where we're not going to know exactly when these students are onboard. If we have reported
problems from operators with regard to situations like this, we'll interact with Mike Meader and
safety and security folks to see what we can do to try and handle the situation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thanks. I appreciate that. I just hope that we take a more proactive
approach as we are keeping up with what school districts are doing. And then I had a question for

you, Jessie, around the guiding principles. And one of those-- well, I just had a question. I have
two questions around the guiding principles.
The first question I have is, how are these applied? Are these weighted? Are they in order, so
service performance evaluation based on the RTD service of standard? Is that the first-- I'm just
curious how this is applied when we're looking at our services.
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. Thank you
for that question. I did add this to the update just to be, one, consistent with whenever we presentSHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: --something relating to services that we keep in mind our guiding principles.
From the time before COVID to now, we have to be mindful of how we distribute services, both
in terms of cost effectiveness and safety and whether or not we are achieving the goals of mobility.
So I don't think that any one of these tenants are more important than the other. But collectively,
they are basically where we have come to kind of lean on to make decisions as to how we should
distribute services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And so at any point with these different tenants or guiding principles, I would
imagine that there would have to be-- that, at some point, there might be a decision where you
have to prioritize one over the other. And what does that priority look like?
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling again.
Probably, they are always held in tension against each other, cost effectiveness versus trying to
serve the greater good. So that tension is constant. And we just bet it out based on, what do we
think is going to actually produce the best results for mobility within the financial constraint, as
I'm reminded by the other side of the table?
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thanks, Heather.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you all. I just have one comment. I sit on a weekly meeting with some
members of the school board, and they are looking at similar decisions. They're having a very hard
time right now based on things that are going on with COVID, based on their planning schedule,
based on their finances.
So I'm sure that they will talk with us as we move forward in looking at school trippers and how
we provide service to the great number of students who do depend on RTD. And I thank Director
Lewis for her comments.
OK. We're going to move onto our second update, which is service performance of 2019, also
known as the Becker report. So I am assuming that Mr. Becker will be here to update us.
JEFF BECKER: Yes. This is Jeff Becker, Senior Manager for Service Development. And I just
want to give a brief presentation just on the purpose, since everybody is fairly familiar with it-- on
the purpose of the report and how it is used.
Essentially, this is fulfillment of that part of the Board mission, which is to provide cost-effective
service throughout the district. And we measure that by looking at two key performance indicators.
One is cost effectiveness or subsidy per boarding, and the other is productivity or boardings per
service hour.
And we have the standards here in your packet. If you were to look on page 74, you'll see the
standards for 2019. Now, since one size does not fit all-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- does
not fit all, RTD has developed a variety of services to match each of its particular markets. And
you'll see that each type of service has different expectations. And so there is a standard for each
one of them.

And this is how we provide the appropriate service coverage throughout the district. And if you
look on page 76, you'll see a map that shows, essentially, the coverage of the service. And you'll
see, based on population plus employment density, how each type of service actually meets its
market. Lower density areas might use FlexRide or suburban services, whereas the major corridors
to the major dense areas will have rail, for example.
So let me just go to one particular chart, which you'll see on page 85. Just to give an illustration,
these are all of our suburban local and FlexRide services. And the box actually represents all those
services that meet standards. So the bottom left corner represents the maximum subsidy per
boarding and the minimum boardings per hour. And as I said before, this is a case where you don't
want to be outside the box.
You'll see that I've labeled a number of the routes, whether it be for FlexRide or suburban local
services. And the ones towards the bottom left are the ones that do not meet either the productivity
or the cost effectiveness or both standards at the 10% level, which is what we agreed to take a look
at. You can't take a look at every route all the time.
And all those that are depicted there, if you go back a section, you'll find notes on why those
services are performing poorly and what we would propose to do about it. In some cases, some
routes may have already been discontinued, because they've been chronically on the outside of the
box [AUDIO OUT]. You can see how any particular route performs relative to any other particular
route in addition to its absolute performance to the standards.
One other thing on this chart is you'll see the vertical orange dotted line that says Minimum
Productivity Per 15-Minute Frequency. And this gives additional information on what you might
expect. Minimum service is generally about every 30 or 60 minutes. In order to have more than
that, better frequency, it usually requires about 25 boardings per hour for the route. And if you
were looking at another chart, you would see another vertical green line at the 40 Boardings Per
Hour. And that's what it would take to get 10-minute service frequency for that.
So that is kind of my general review of it. And Madam Chair, if there are any questions, we'll be
glad to answer that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Jeff. This always gives us an interesting look at how we do what
we do. So I'm going to see if the directors would like to talk about that. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No question. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions at this time. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska? I did not hear you, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, there you are.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, ma'am. Happy to hear you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just one quick question. And I always really
appreciate this report, Jeff, Mr. Becker. So I really appreciate you bringing this forward.
I guess the only question I have is-- and I probably sound like a broken record at this point. But it
does make me think about our service standards and how we are changing, potentially, our service
standards-- maybe the conversation is too soon-- as it relates to COVID, right? We aren't really
able to carry a lot of folks on our-- at least how we have in the past-- to carry that same number of
folks. And so I'm just curious how we're thinking about that and how we are planning for that as
we look into the next iteration of this report.
JEFF BECKER: Yes, this is Jeff Becker again. We have talked about that. But what will change it
is the ridership and where the riders are, what the new travel patterns might be.
And we can already see, and perhaps Board members and all have also observed, that ridership on
our commuter services like rail, especially, has dropped off much more significantly than for a lot
of our local and urban routes. And that is evidently due much to the characteristics of the riders,
and it's called essential workers. But for us, there are people that are more dependent on transit
often.
So I think we could still use the guidelines pretty much as they are. But we'll have to see what the
travel patterns do. And the other big thing will be the maximum load that we're allowed to have,
which we're using, as you know, like 15 for a 40-passenger bus.
And as ridership starts to return, that can be-- well, it's totally the opposite of transit, right? I mean,
we look to have many people on the bus. And when you're restricted from that, how will we be
able to provide the necessary level of capacity to meet returning riders? So that might create some
change on the standards. I hope that makes sense.

SHONTEL LEWIS: No, it absolutely does. And you actually addressed the heart of the question
is the requirement for social distancing is actually in conflict to how transit services are operating.
You put a bunch of people on a bus or a rail car, and that's the math. And so I did have that question.
Particularly, you addressed the piece around folks who are transit dependent, and I would imagine
that a lot of folks who are utilizing our services at this point are utilizing it because they're transit
dependent. And so I did have that inquiry.
The final question I have for you, which you all provide to us, is the comparison by class of service.
And I wondered if that would ever-- I know we compare things that are in the same class of service.
But I wonder if we would just compare across all of our services at any point as we are trying to
figure out what the new normal is in this COVID era.
JEFF BECKER: And this is Jeff Becker again. Yes, and as you peruse these charts, you'll find one
chart-- this one, for example, on page 81-- that has all of the different services all in one chart. You
can see how they kind of overlap. Now, in terms of performance of these particular routes, it's all
going to change as a result of the ridership changes during the pandemic.
But we can collect that information and use it in a similar manner like you're suggesting. And it's
a good thing. That's a good question, because that's why this is set up this way. You can compare
any route to any other one across the board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that. And this is really my last question, I promise, because
you've laid this out so beautifully. Would you all be able to provide to the Board or at least me,
unless others are interested, this same information but maybe from March to June, just so that we
might be able to see a comparative analysis of how our services previously performed and how
they performed during COVID when we were under stay at home orders or telecommuting, et
cetera?
JEFF BECKER: Yes, we are working on putting together a document that gives what we know
today, information about ridership patterns on the routes, even the maximum load routes where
the maximum loads are starting to get higher, and how ridership has changed hour by hour during
the day. And that, I think, would be good information for decision making.
And some of this data, we don't have quickly, because we don't have all the costs and that sort of
thing. But we will be providing something very similar.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Well, thank you. That is all I have for you, Mr. Becker. Thank you so
much. I am all done, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. I do want to point out that this is a 2019 report.
It's based on data from last year. And I think we all know that the data this year will be different.
And I know that it takes some amount of time to collect the information and collate it and process
is and put it into something that we can all read. So I know that we are all looking forward to
seeing how what we will have for the first half of this year compares to what we had from last

year, I think. As in much of our lives, it will be very different. Thank you, Mr. Becker. We
appreciate it. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, just one question. When will we be posting this on the public portal?
And I would actually like to get just the single copy of this, too, partly because the one column
seems to be cut off on the far right within the agenda copy. So will we be posting that on the public
portal? OK.
And then, Mr. Becker, I'm looking through the column, right, I'm seeing the highest level subsidy
I think I've ever seen in many years. We've got Wagon Road, which, granted, opened in November
2019-- but subsidy of nearly $81 dollars per boarding. Are the numbers right on this one,
specifically the operating cost for $93,000 and change? [INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF BECKER: You said Wagon Road?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, Wagon Road. Sorry. I said wagon wheel, probably. Wagon Road.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS]
JEFF BECKER: Yes, this is Jeff Becker again. Yeah, that was just started up last fall. And
surprisingly, or perhaps not surprisingly, I don't know around your house, but I see the FedEx and
UPS vehicles all day long here. That's actually doing better in retention than other FlexRides,
because that serves the Amazon Distribution Center up there in Thornton. So it's not as bad as it
looks here from last year.
But here again, as our Madam Chair has just suggested, we're going to have to get-- we are
gathering all the data on all the routes now. It's going to look very different from last year.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Yeah. And I am interested to see-- one last note is I'm interested to see
we now have three rail lines that are within the section of the report which are a little bit of a red
flag in that they are not performing in either one category or the other, and that's A, G, and R now.
So I am, because I asked for this report probably starting January 30 and on, extremely thrilled
that we have this report ready now. And when will it be posted on the public portal?
JEFF BECKER: It is already.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. All right. That's all my questions and comments.
JEFF BECKER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Wow, that was a great answer. Thank you, Director Menten. Director
Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: Nothing additional from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No questions. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes. Earlier, I had a question about the N Line. When we voted to give a
discounted fare to the folks boarding the N Line, one of the stated reasons was to see the elasticity
of the price on that service. So given that everything's been blown to smithereens, is there still
anything to gather, any information to be gleaned from at least that part of the fare reduction?
JEFF BECKER: This is Jeff Becker. If it were me, I mean, obviously, this is not a good time to
make a pilot test on fares. We did, of course, eliminate fares entirely, and we saw a slight blip
increase, not much.
And then fares were just put back in a couple of weeks ago. We're looking at trying to get the data
on that. And it looks like it went down a little bit. But under these circumstances, it's really a shot
in the dark.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I was hoping you would say something different, but that's what I've been
thinking, also, what you just said. So that's all. I was just wondering if there was something that I
was missing or if you guys had better ideas than I do. That's it. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you, Jeff. As usual, good presentation. I appreciate the graphics,
and the charts are very helpful and enlightening. That's all, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I, too, would like to thank the staff for
their continued outstanding work. I mean, the level of detail that goes into these projects are just
huge. And I would just like to say thank you. I have no questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have one comment. I did some work during the
last couple months with people who were working at Amazon, interviewing at Amazon, trying to
go to work at Amazon. And routes that did not have, normally, a lot of riders suddenly had a lot
of riders, and routes that have had a lot of riders before suddenly did not.
And so I think it will be of interest for us to take a look at what we expected to be doing and what,
in fact, we are doing in a lot of ways, so this one in particular. Thank you so much, Mr. Becker.
We look forward to the next Becker report.

OK. Moving onto the next update, Reimagine RTD, I am going to ask Holly Buck and Jim Baker
and Bill Sirois to update us as they please. Ladies and gentlemen, take it away.
HOLLY BUCK: Wonderful. Thank you, Director Williams. Let's see. This is Holly Buck. We've
got quite a few slides in your slide deck today, but we're going to just hit on some of the highlights.
And in the interest of time, we're thinking we should probably go through the whole packet with
the three of us and then open it up to questions if you're OK with that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah, I just want to remind everybody that we do our homework. We
read it. And so I don't know that we need to go through every one of the 55 slides. But I know that
we are all very interested in this, so we are happy to have the updates that you all want to give us.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, wonderful, wonderful. Well, we'll just try to hit on the high points. Then we
can have questions. So during the Board session on June 30, we reviewed the process that the
Reimagine RTD team used to identify, develop, and evaluate the four system optimization plan
scenarios. And the intent of the scenario evaluation wasn't to select one or the other but to really
understand the trade-offs that occur in a fiscally constrained environment, to find that appropriate
balance for allocation of resources for RTD.
So the results from that are shown on page 102 of your packet. And we talked about those. But
just as a very quick refresher, if we focus our resources on providing high-quality, frequent service,
we cover less geography, because we're in this fiscally constrained environment. But the service
is attractive, so we're able to capture the most riders of the four scenarios we looked at. So when
we're looking at the service quality and we look at the results on page 103, you can see that that
service quality captured the most riders.
If we focus on spreading the service throughout the district, we cover more geography, so we have
more service to-- we have some service to more jobs and population in the district. But we attract
the lowest ridership, because the service is somewhat less attractive. And it's located in areas that
have less transit-supportive land use.
So after reviewing those results, we completed a polling exercise with you all. And we have done
a similar one with the technical working group and the advisory committee. And I felt like we got
to the end of the study session on the 30th, and we were running out of time, so we didn't get to
spend much time here. So I do want to just go back and touch on these, because I think they're
important, and I'd certainly like to hear your feedback on this.
So we did the exercise two times. And this really starts the results here from this start on page 106,
so that we're all on the same spot. So we asked the question two times. So we asked, with scarce
resources due to COVID-19, how strongly do you agree or disagree with the following service
statements? And then we asked the same-- we provided the same set of statements, but we asked
you to evaluate them on how strongly you agreed or didn't agree in sort of a post-COVID-19 time
frame.

So if you're looking at page 106, this is the results of the Technical Working Group and the
Advisory Committee. And using the second and third as examples, because they're pretty good
examples of where the Technical Working Group was aligned and where the Advisory Committee
was aligned, you'll see that both groups were well aligned. They agreed that service should be
prioritized to transit-supportive land uses over being distributed throughout the district.
And when we ask them the third statement down, they disagreed that RTD should prioritize
coverage over a high-quality service and high-frequency network with competitive travel times.
And one of the things that I think is interesting to look at on these graphs is the shape behind the- if you can see the shape of the color behind the words there, this helps you understand where
people were aligned and not aligned.
So on that pink shape, you can see that it's almost like a wave that goes up to the right. And so you
can see that the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee, most people were over
in the right side, where they strongly agreed with prioritizing service to transit-supportive land use.
And those votes came in-- pardon me? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought somebody said something. So those
came in at 3.2 and 3 for the Advisory Committee. Fairly well aligned there. When we asked you
in this immediate COVID response time frame, the Board of Directors landed more in the middle.
And you can see your results on page 107 of the packet.
So then let's go onto page-- and I just think that's interesting to see. And I think the interesting
piece with the-- if we look at the shape of the curve, you can see that you had people on all
spectrums from strongly disagreeing to strongly agreeing on most all of these statements other
than the last one, where we talked about prioritizing providing a regional transit backbone and
supporting partnerships where local communities pay for and operate local service.
So you can see you all were quite well aligned, and that came in at 3.5. So I think that's -- And the
Technical Working Group, if you look back at page 106, and the Advisory Committee, also, were
well aligned around that.
The next set of slides is where-- so that was the response to the, how do we allocate resources
during COVID-19 response? The next set of slides, we're asking about-- thinking about more of a
mid-term and what we think of as a mid-term and how you want to allocate resources during that
time.
So you can see, starting on page 113, similar results. And then on 114, you can see the results of
the Board. And here, you do start to see that, on a couple of these, the Board results start to move
to the right a little bit farther. On the first one about maximizing ridership, you're up at a 3. And
then maximizing the number of people in jobs, the wave in green is at a 3.2. And then you continue
to support the regional backbone of services, as well.
So let's go down and look at page 119 of your packet. And I think these are some pretty important- what we saw as the takeaways from all of this information. It appears that the Technical Working
Group and the Advisory Committee strongly support service to equity populations. And they also

strongly support high-frequency service to areas with transit-supportive land use over a coveragebased system.
The preliminary results that we saw from the Board of Directors study session indicate that you
lean maybe a little bit more toward a coverage-based system. And all groups favored a regional
transit backbone provided by RTD and exploring local community partnerships to operate and pay
for the local service.
So using all of that information, looking at the evaluation of the four scenarios and understanding
those trade-offs, input from the two committees, feedback from you all, we developed this initial
test of guiding principles to help guide development of the system optimization plan. And these
are on page 122 of your packet.
And I'm hoping that if we have time today, this would be a great area for some feedback. And to
Director Lewis' point about service standards and our approach during COVID, because we did
ask that of the committees and we've been pretty engaged with them to get support about how best
to respond during this time, we do have a couple of guiding principles that we've started to outline
for the SOP development on page 123, as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Holly. Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. Excuse me just a minute. Somebody is unmuted. I
don't know if you are hearing the feedback, but we're having a very hard time hearing you, because
there is either an echo-- so you either have two devices on, or somebody else has their mute off
that is listening. I'm going to ask everybody to check their mute. [AUDIO OUT] speaking. Sorry
to interrupt. Go ahead.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, is that better?
KATE WILLIAMS: It is.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, super. OK. So I would love to hear feedback on these guiding principles.
Again, they're a draft. And I think they're a very important piece of the puzzle. It's the culmination
of all the information and evaluation we have pulled together so far to help guide this system
optimization plan development. So when we get through the rest, I'd love to get some feedback on
these and ensure that they are resonating with what you're feeling, as well. Jim is going to go ahead
and hit on the system optimization plan and some of the recommendations that were starting to
come out of that.
JIM BAKER: Thanks, Holly. So this is Jim Baker. And I just want to pick up where Holly left
there, taking into consideration the design guidelines that she just went over and the service
philosophy voting results. We have begun some initial work on defining a draft system
optimization plan. So I want to just kind of share where we're at on that.

In your packet, page 125 presents the way we're starting to develop this network. And we're really
looking at basically structuring service in tiers. So that first tier is really going to be the backbone
of your transit network, providing that high-quality, frequent, reliable service and the high-anywhere you have highly traveled regional corridors. So this is consistent with one of the service
philosophy questions that Holly covered about indicating a desire to provide a strong regional
transit backbone.
Tier two consist of routes that serve more subregional areas where there's more moderate demand
for services. And tier three is more of your community-focused routes, which would include some
community fixed routes as well as alternative service delivery options where fixed route may not
be warranted. But as you can imagine, transfer hubs are going to be really important as part of the
system optimization plan.
Since rail is, of course, an important element of that first tier of regional transit services, I wanted
to just highlight a little bit of some of the concepts we're looking at for the rail. And on page 128
of your packet, it has some graphics that indicate a potential rail service concept that we're
exploring. Specifically, the graphic on the left illustrates a potential reconfiguration of your light
rail lines.
And what's different from today-- I just wanted to highlight a few things that's different from today.
First, you'll see three blue lines heading north, from the south up north, into downtown Denver to
Union Station, central Denver. Right now, you have five rail lines that do that. So this concept
proposes consolidating from five lines to three lines.
And one of the things we've heard from your rail operations folks is it's awfully difficult to provide
reliable service with five rail lines. On paper, you can schedule it out. But in reality, a train gets
delayed. It misses its slot. And those problems cascade.
Another element to kind of point out on this graphic is that the level of train service reflected in
this graphic is different outside of the core. Specifically, there is a reduction in train service on the
Southeast line, south of 225 and along the 225 line. One of the concerns we heard from the rail
operations staff is just the need to better balance the level of train service provided to the demand,
get that better in sync. So with this proposed consolidation of rail lines and with the consolidation
of the H and R line with every other H line train continuing north of Florida, it does result in a
reduction in train service in these areas.
The third thing that I'd point out that's not on this graphic is that we tried to tighten the span of
service just a little bit, start service a little bit later and end service a little bit earlier, just to help
improve the overnight maintenance window. Because it's awfully tough to get the maintenance
needed overnight on the track with such a short window there. So the rail operations folks felt like
an extra hour of that maintenance window would be very helpful.
So page 132 presents the plan benefits. This is kind of a summary of that related to reliability
service and maintenance. I would just note that this concept that we just went over does result in a
15% reduction in annual train hours. So that means there would be a reduction on annual rail
operating costs.

And we also designed this in a manner so it's scalable. So you can incrementally go from your
current COVID train service levels up to this SOP concept as ridership returns, as financial
resources get better. The primary drawback, though, is with a consolidation of the lines, it will
mean that some of your customers will need to make a transfer to complete their trip. But since
they're proposing these three rail lines to operate at 10-minute frequencies all day long, that
average wait time would be a five-minute wait time, then, for people that do have to make that
transfer.
And I just wanted to highlight one other thing on the bus side on page 138 of your packet. Just a
quick update on where we're at on the bus design. We are presently working through those potential
concepts of redesigning the network with that tiered network structure that I mentioned.
And what we're really focused on is these three bullets here on page 138, just really focused on
simplification, consistency, and reliability. Really trying to make sure that the system is easy for
your customers to understand, that we keep trip exceptions on a route to a minimum, and we keep
route lengths at a reasonable distance there so that we can ensure reasonable, on-time performance
for your bus service.
So that's kind of a real brief summary. And I think that Bill's going to take it from here.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks, Jim. Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented
Communities. I'm just going to give a very brief discussion about the outreach engagement we've
been doing. I think, as you all know, and we sent out information out last week, we initiated an
online survey last week. And it's running till the 24th. We've actually got over 300 responses.
We're excited about that.
It's both in English and Spanish. And it actually does support a lot of the stuff that we're talking
about here in terms of looking at things and people's priorities in mind in terms of, when we look
at service, what are the things that people want us to prioritize?
We are, associated with that, doing a statistically valid survey. And that survey is complete. Our
consultants are working on summarizing that now. And so then in addition to that, we have been
doing some targeted outreach with specific groups-- namely, groups that we feel are kind of
underrepresented, being groups related to senior disabled, essential workers.
We actually have a meeting set up with AFL-CIO and the Grocery Workers Union. We're excited
about that. So we've been trying to reach some of the folks that, again, we know that are using our
service and want to get some of their feedback.
And let me just conclude by a couple of things in terms of next steps before we get to questions,
because I think there's been a little bit of confusion about how we're going to proceed. So one of
the things that we are going to be doing-- we're calling it-- we're developing a target SOP, which
really is focused on kind of getting us back up to that pre COVID service level. That, we project
to be implemented in the 2023 to 2026 time frame depending on how budget goes.

We all know that we have a very challenged budget right now. And we're not exactly sure where
it's going to be. So we're putting it in that window.
But as part of that, and I think Bruce outlined this earlier, we are going to be using the SOP as kind
of the basis for the January 2021 runboard, and we're calling that kind of our phase one of the SOP.
So that will be going through the process, and we'll be working closely with service planning on
that. And you can expect to see that later this fall.
So with that, I just want to provide that little clarification in terms of some next steps. And then
we'll open it up for questions the Board members may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, we'll run through the roll call. And thank you all for all of the work
that you have been-- can you hear me OK still?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: You sound a little muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, OK. I'm going to try again. Thank you all, Holly, Jim, and Mr. Sirois,
always, for your work on this and for keeping us all updated. I'll run through the directors and see
if they have questions or comments. Again, we're going to go alphabetical order, which means that
Director Whitmore and I will have our questions answered already. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I don't have any questions, but I do have some significant
concerns that I'll have to deal with later. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I was interested in the graphs, the drawings shown
on pages 127 through 129, except I can't read them. So no matter how hard you blow them up or
use a magnifying glass, all of the images and the text within those images are blurred. So it would
be really nice to see those in some fashion that I can actually read them. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right, I think we can make that happen. Mr. Sirois, make a note. Director
Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I looked at the rail optimization concept and
understand, with the consolidation of some of those lines, what it might mean, having experienced
some of those consolidation runs on the C and D lines on the weekends. But I think the devil will
be in the details with regard to the bus system optimization plan. And I, along with Director Broom,
have some concerns with what that might show. But I actually look forward to seeing it. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And if I might briefly return to the prior-- because it sort of
relates. I've got a query into the staff and will look forward to hearing information about that. The
subsidy for the commuter rail versus light rail was so markedly different. And of course, the costs

are quantified differently. Part of it is the payment. So I just wanted to put that marker in there to
hold judgment in response to Natalie Menten's question, for example.
OK. On this, Holly Buck had suggested that she'd like feedback on those draft design guiding
principles, so a couple things here. On the strong connectivity to social equity communities and
transit-supportive land use quarters, one thing I would add is that I hope we'll include some
provision for both quarters that are newer and are only now starting to densify.
I mean, think of T-REX. It's been in place for, what, 15 years? And there's been lots of opportunity
with frequent service sustained over all that time to build around it and to support the ridership
with the transit-oriented development and employment nearby.
So that's one thing. And my preference would be that we also work out a set of criteria that allows
a priority to areas that are actively and successfully starting to densify. They're doing the zoning,
they've got programs in place, that sort of thing.
The other part is for the areas that are beyond or that are tier three or whatever. I agree with all the
sentiment about partnerships, but I think we need to think about how we incentivize that. I think
we'll have to consider ourselves-- we'll have to be thinking about how we materially participate in
ways that are cost effective but that still incentivize those kinds of partnerships.
And then one last thing, if I may. I would just add food for thought. In terms of the calendar, where
all of this is coming together-- and we're talking about making decisions in the fall at the very same
moment that we're hiring a General Manager. This was kind of brought to my attention. I think it's
worth thinking about.
Are we doing things that will tie that person's hands as they begin to get into the agency and make
plans and get their arms around our issues and so forth? So I just wanted to stick that thought out
there for people to consider. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jeez Louise. I don't know that I'm going to say thank you. OK. Director
Folska? Sometimes it takes a moment to find the Unmute.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. I think this is very interesting, and I look forward to
hearing what comes next. That's all for me now.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, I think this is really interesting. And the system
optimization plan and listening to Bill Sirois' explanations, you have the system optimization plan
to rail at pages 133, 134, phase one, phase two, phase three. I guess I'm interested if that's what
you'll be doing with bus and commuter rail, as well. Rather than having a continuing COVID plan,
you'll have sort of a plan that phases in for all of those.
And I have that question. And then I agree with a couple of Director Cook's comments. I think we
have a General Manager coming in. We need to sort of think about the timing.

And in terms of-- I'm trying to see where it is-- where you've got the survey results from the
different groups, the TWG and the AC and the Board, it's suddenly that I think we may be-- and
I'm not sure of this, but there may have been 13 of us that took the quiz. And it's worth thinking
about the fact that-- and I mentioned this to Brian Welch and Bill Sirois today-- but the fact that
one person could really change the Board of Directors' views on some of this.
I assume that there are actually people taking it differently. It's just worth looking at. And I guess
I'm wondering how you balance the TWG and AC and Board outcomes. That's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right. Lots of things to think about there. Director Lewis?
BILL SIROIS: Chair? Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Sirois. Go ahead.
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. I didn't know if you wanted me to try to respond to any of the
comments or questions or anybody on the panel when they're asked or you wanted us to wait.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was feeling like these were comments that the Directors wanted you to look
at and think on. I did not hear any specific question that was looking for an answer right now,
although I may be wrong. If you hear one, please feel free to answer. OK. I'm going to move on.
Who's up? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Holly, you mentioned that you desired feedback
for the design guiding principles. And I'm also trying to understand how the design guiding
principles and the guiding principles for the proposed service changes that Jessie presented to us
earlier-- how they work together or maybe if they collide. If you could tell me a bit more about
that before I give feedback, it would be helpful for me to understand these two.
HOLLY BUCK: You're right. I think that's a great question. And Jim, I would suggest that you
could chime in here, too. But I would say that the process that we're going through here, it was
initially started because you were experiencing some reduction in ridership over the last several
years. And the idea was that we would take a fresh look at the system and the travel patterns. And
the service standards are in that, too.
So looking at those service standards and making sure that they are in alignment with your goals,
what you're trying to achieve, and in alignment with your constituents' goals, as well. So I would
not say that they are in conflict. But I think there is an opportunity to potentially-- through this
process, you may decide that you want to revisit them. That is an outcome that could occur here.
And the tiered approach that Jim presented would be a different approach to your service standards
than what you have in place today. So I don't want to-- they're not in conflict, yes, but it could be
an adjustment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. That's very helpful. If your counterpart wants to chime in, I'm
happy to stop talking and listen, as well.

HOLLY BUCK: Jim, did you have anything to add?
JIM BAKER: No, I think you covered it well. I mean, RTD has always had a really well-defined
family of services that's really more kind of land use based if it's a suburban or urban type of
environment. And this is thinking about it a little bit differently from a travel market standpoint.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And so for the design principles, I'll ask the same as I did for the guiding
principles for the proposed service changes. Can you talk to me a bit about how those are situated?
Do we expect that they are weighted, that we would prioritize one over another? So if we're talking
about coverage versus frequency, how would those apply? What's the application of those guiding
principles?
HOLLY BUCK: Are you specifically referring to the 122 and 123 slides? Just so I make sure,
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm specifically referring to the draft-- excuse me-- SOP network design
guiding principles.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm just trying to understand the application of those. And you can apply it to
any of the tiers or the consolidations that you all have talked about from the rails and the bus. I just
want to understand how we move those guiding principles into practice.
HOLLY BUCK: Right. So those guiding principles are intended to be the framework for the tiers
that we are presenting to you today.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it.
HOLLY BUCK: And the ones that we have identified here, I would describe those, especially on
page 122, as being in an order of priority. So the tier one, for instance, is that regionally focused,
high-quality transit network would be what Jim is describing in tier one. And then as we move
down, strong connectivity to the social equity communities and transit-supportive land uses, that
is in there, as well, the financial constraint.
And then the third tier really talks about the enhanced partnerships with the local agencies and
bolstering that connectivity to the regional backbone. So it's trying to take what we've heard from
everyone and create that approach to developing the system optimization plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful. I just want to make an observation, too. I didn't participate
in the survey that you would have done with the Board of Directors. And so that may or may not
have changed the results that you all were provided. But just wanted to name that, because I think
it's important.
Let me sit with this a bit more, because-- yeah, let me sit with it a bit more, Holly, and I can connect
with you offline with some questions that I have.

HOLLY BUCK: That would be wonderful. I appreciate that. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. I think that's kind of where we're all going. I
think we're all digesting. And I apologize to any of the Directors who spoke earlier if you had a
direct question that you want answered at the moment. We certainly are happy to do that, and I
apologize. I just kind of thought that everybody was digesting still what has been presented to us.
We did get the packet last Thursday, and so I think we've had a couple days to deal with it. So
unless there is a Director who I inadvertently did not allow to get an answer-- OK, then I'm going
to go on. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I do have a question. And I'm wondering. The tier approach, does
that have a geographic equity issue involved with it? Might it possibly result in less coverage for
certain of the outlying communities?
And that coordinates with the other question I had from page 122. Are the guiding principles-could they possibly result in some of the outlying areas having less coverage?
JIM BAKER: This is Jim Baker.
JUDY LUBOW: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
JIM BAKER: This is Jim Baker. Yeah, in our words, I guess with that tiered approach, yeah, since
one of those guiding principles on slide-- is it 122-- does address geographic coverage or trying to
just find the balance there of making sure that we have that strong backbone of a regional network
by filling it out with those tier two, tier three routes to maintain geographic-- to try to address that
fourth bullet on slide 122 about geographic coverage.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK.
HOLLY BUCK: And this is Holly. I'll go back to the first part of the question there about the
guiding principles. I think you've hit it on the head what-- and part of what I would be definitely
interested in hearing feedback from this group on is that when we talked to and solicited feedback
from the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee, they were quite supportive of
perhaps less coverage and more concentrated frequent service in areas with land use that supports
transit.
When we solicited feedback from [INAUDIBLE], I would say I did not, from the Board of
Directors, that was not as clear. And so we've put these guiding principles together for your
consideration. And it does indicate that that geographic coverage is fourth on the list and purposely
fourth on the list as far as your priorities for investment. And so I think you've hit it about as on
the nose as we can. I'd love some feedback about how you, as the Board of Directors, feel about
that and if that is the approach we should be taking and help provide us some guidance.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Yeah, I kind of had a sense that that's where it was going. And I
certainly understand it, especially in a time of enormous budget contraction and needing to
transport essential workers. It makes perfect sense.
But I'm in an outlying area. And we've had a whole history with RTD where people feel unlistened
to and discounted. And it would not be great to feel like we're getting even less service
proportionally than otherwise. And so that just becomes an issue that really needs to be addressed.
Maybe there's some way to look at alternative service, some magical service that-- yeah.
HOLLY BUCK: Well, I was just going to respond and say I don't-- this is Holly Buck again. I
think you're absolutely right. And I don't think it's necessarily magical, but I think that there are
services out there that we need to start uncovering and looking at and what might still provide
some service, maybe at a more cost-effective manner than we're able to do it today. But we're just
initiating that part of the conversation.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you. I appreciate that you'll be doing that, because I think it's
necessary. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Let me go through these. First of all, when will there be an opportunity
to look at these choices with a price tag or savings, in this case, with net savings? When would we
get that chance to do that comparison? Because the system optimization plan, to me, is two parts.
It's workforce, and it's the dollars. So I'm curious about that to start with.
And then when it does talk about-- I apologize, and I want to scroll back up. But when we're talking
about essentially partnering or subsidizing a partnership with rideshare, I don't want to let go of
the conversation of a direct voucher to the person that has been paying sales tax into the area so
that they would have choice, perhaps wider than if we narrowed it to one TMC or another.
Then when are you coming back with a bus? And can you briefly tell me again or take-- with the
three tiers, what's the difference there with a tier versus the phases that are used in the rail? That's
it. If I can get a response now, that would be great.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. This is Holly Buck. I'll try and start here. And Jim, please jump in. So if I
understand correctly, you ask about opportunities for the choices with the price tag. So at this
point, all the services-- everything that we have designed to the fiscally constrained plan is
technically 8% less than what you had in 2019, which is when we started the process we thought
we were designing to before COVID came along.
Bruce Abel, earlier in the conversation, mentioned that you will have some updated revenue
forecasts that will come, I believe, in late July. And when you have those, we will support
designing services to the budget for that phase one piece that will go into place in early 2021. Does
that answer your first question, Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. What I heard was it's a package versus being able to weigh one option
or another and looking outside that. So you gave me the answer. So the direct vouchers, then, that
was merely a comment. And then now to the bus tiered.
HOLLY BUCK: Jim, can you touch on the three tiers and the difference between the tiers and the
phasing, please?
JIM BAKER: Sure. This is Jim Baker. So we are proposing to define these three tiers that are more
market based, as I mentioned and as Holly mentioned, where we're developing an SOP to that
target SOP, that level that Bill Sirois mentioned. But as we develop that SOP, we're doing that
keeping in mind the need that it's going to need to be phased in, just like the potential phasing of
the rail that was in the packet.
So we're going to identify that target SOP first, keeping in mind how it can be phased in. And then
as Holly mentioned, once we know that target financial level in late July, we'll be working with
the RTD service planners jointly and to work to a potential January 2021 runboard that reflects a
potential first phase of getting towards that target SOP.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So when I see in tier one bus a minimum of 18-hour span of service,
5:00 AM to 11:00 PM, and then it goes to tier two, minimum 15-hour span of service, that's a
reduction from tier one to tier two, so more of a reduction. And as we get more updated numbers,
that's where it will land on whether we can even have tier one. We might jump to tier two. Is that
where the difference would be?
JIM BAKER: All right. Now this is Jim Baker again. I think the intent-- and we'll have to work
through this once we understand the financial forecast. But the intent is to still begin to put into
place a tier one, tier two, tier three structure there where that tier one really remains your backbone
network where you have the expanded span of service. You have the high frequencies. It may be,
once we understand the financial realities, that there may need to be some adjustments in terms of
what those minimum thresholds of spans in service and frequencies may be for each tier.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I think that helps me. All right, thank you. That's all.
HOLLY BUCK: I do just want to be clear that this-- and Jim, correct me if I have this wrong, but
the system optimization plan will include all three tiers.
JIM BAKER: Yes.
HOLLY BUCK: OK.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce. Holly, Jim, if I might-HOLLY BUCK: Please.

BRUCE ABEL: There seems to be some confusion between tiering and phasing. So the phase is
to how we move through time and that the initial, for example, phasing of the rail, we might start
at 15 minutes service. And then as financial resources become available, we would move to 10.
So that's sort of the phasing concept, whereas on the bus, there would always be three tiers. The
highest tier represents the areas where there is the highest ridership potential. So that is why it
would have the longest-- jargon term here-- span of service, which means how long it runs in the
course of the day, whereas tier two has less of a service demand, so the buses would not run as
long in the course of any given day. And tier three is always going to be the more localized services.
And those characteristics would carry on throughout time. It's just how much service within each
tier would be provided at any point in time. And that would be driven by finance. Holly, Jim, does
that help any?
JIM BAKER: Yes. Yep.
NATALIE MENTEN: And this is meant to solve all [AUDIO OUT]. If the word "category" had
been in there, that would have been a little more obvious to me, so my fault for-- not big into the
word "characteristics" and seeing it as a category, I guess. So no I am much more clear on the
difference here. Thank you.
HOLLY BUCK: That's good for us to know moving forward. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right. That was a healthy discussion. Thank you, Director Menten.
Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm glad Director Menten mentioned the voucher
concept, because it's something that we've talked about with, I think, considerable support for a
while now. And I would think this SOP process would be the vehicle where it might be
incorporated or, at a minimum, modeled as an option.
And then I'm kind of-- with Director Lubow's comment on, she's in an outlying area. And a lot of
people receive little to no service. I would say the same thing in where I'm at but in a less outlying
area.
And I don't know if you guys saw or had opportunity to-- we'll get to it in the next meeting, but
the county allocation report. I wouldn't want to see that spread that Director Tisdale mentioned
previously get any wider for Douglas County. So that is all the comment that I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And just for the sake of refreshing
people's recollection, the spread we were talking about was, how much does Douglas County spend
with the RTD in terms of sales tax collected? And how much money is spent by RTD to provide
services to Douglas County?

And Douglas County is the poorest recipient of RTD services in terms of dollars. Yet it pales by
comparison to Boulder, Adams, Denver, Jefferson. There's simply no comparison at all. So that's
just to refresh your recollection on the discussion that we had some time ago.
An observation that I wanted to make is that there is a difference between information and data.
We have a lot of information from the TWG and the AC. And we're getting more information from
the public through the survey that we have.
But this information does not in and of itself rise to the level of detail that can and should guide
our ultimate decisions. It's useful. It is beneficial and is very helpful. But it's not data. It's not
actually science. And I just think we have to be careful when we look at these various responses
and have them control our decision making.
I also want to affirm the comments by Directors Menten and Mihalik regarding vouchers and
choice. I think those ten topics are very interesting. And they are worthy of exploration as we go
forward looking at this system optimization plan. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I just have one quickie for you. I actually think
that Weld County gets the least amount service from RTD, less than Douglas. But I could be
wrong.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, but I believe if you compare the revenue in from Weld County, you
won't find any comparison there. And that was the disparate treatment that we were talking about
as compared to tax dollars paid and service dollars paid. The biggest disparity is Douglas County,
I believe.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. Thank you, sir. OK. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I am in transit now, so I have to pay attention to where I'm going.
One of the problems that I have with those county figures showing how much is spent and how
much goes to each county is it doesn't take into account-- at least not to my understanding-- it
doesn't take into account the people that go and spend money outside of the county. So I don't
know how many people come from Weld County, Douglas County, pick a county, and spend their
money in Denver for lunch or for furniture or for the ballgames, et cetera.
So that's always given me a problem, that level of comparison. For cars, large ticket items, it's
easier. But for those $5, $10 drinks, that's a little harder to discern.
Anyway, so I'm in favor of having the strong backbone for the system and then having the local
agents or local jurisdictions support or create their own systems that support getting their residents
or workers to that backbone. Because not all regions, not all parts of this region, are built the same.
From the map that was shown in the North Metro service plan, pretty much everything north of I70 was like a bowl of spaghetti. Streets were everywhere with no consideration to what it takes to
build that infrastructure and lay out sewer lines, electric lines, water lines, and bus lines. So it takes
an incredible amount of effort to support that with our system.

If that's how those jurisdictions want to build and design their communities, that's fine. I don't
know if it needs to rest on the backs of everybody in the district, including 10% of the state that
live in Denver-- 10% of the population that lives in Denver, state's population that lives in Denver,
to support that type of poor development.
But there are some-- 120th, Washington, and some other streets-- that do cut through. And if that's
the spine, then if you can get to the spine, you've got services. And it should be strong service and
reliable service. But as far as breaking off of that spine and hitting those collector streets and I
guess the minor collectors, major collectors off of the arterials, I'd rather see the strong arterial,
the strong service on the arterials, and the lesser service-- I guess that tier three service-- in those
regions that do not have that strong grid system that's really, really easy to serve and that doesn't
have that density.
Last time I checked-- it's been a while, maybe close to a year-- but last time I checked, Boulder
still had a height limit of 40 feet in its zoning code. And it's just really hard to support a lot of
service at a 40-foot height limit. So yeah, those are my thoughts that I can give now when paying
attention to the other things I have going on.
But it was a great presentation. This stuff is really interesting. I don't think this is going to be a
technical decision. I think this is going to be a very personal decision, political decision. I think
that's why we saw a difference between what the Board saw as priorities and what the AC and the
TWG saw as priorities, because we are not a technical body. We're a political body.
And ultimately, we get to make that decision. It's going to be based on politics, not on the
technicalities of the [AUDIO OUT]. So anyway, that's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. I have to say, I agree with your last comment.
Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: As predicted by you, Madam Chair, I have nothing more to ask or to give
as input. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I'm going to go next alphabetically. I also
echo Director Whitmore and what he said. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I think you can wrap it up
here.
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Boy, this has been an amazing conversation,
I think, for a lot of reasons. And I am really sitting here thinking about the difference between the
information we're gathering and the data that we will be reviewing. And there's two pieces that I
haven't heard yet, how this will be incorporated into all this stuff.
When I think about outlying areas in geographic equity and social equity is gentrification, number
one, and, number two, what the new census will look like in terms of diversity of populations in
further-out communities where folks have had to move to because they can't afford to live in the
metropolitan area anymore but have to come in the furthest to do jobs that don't pay a lot of money.
So those are just a couple of my thoughts. And I know, Holly, that doesn't surprise you, because I

talk about this stuff all the time. But I can't help but think what kind of an impact gentrification
will have on this as well as what the census will be looking like. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Unless there's
anybody in the first group who had a question that did not get answered, everybody's OK there. I
think we have a lot of work with-SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair, this is Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a quick-- because I was having a hard time understanding what the
asks were. Holly, love, if I could just make a really quick comment, I promise that I'll be really
brief.
HOLLY BUCK: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I tend to agree with both Chair Rivera-Malpiede and
Director Walker. And I would say, on the topic of the geographic equity, it does bring me some
concern that we might, in the hopes of creating geographic equity, create inequities by just trying
to provide service to everyone for the sake of providing service.
And it does take me back to the report that Jeff presented to us earlier during our discussion,
because we do know that there are some routes that aren't meeting productivity. And so I,
personally, would really like to prioritize true equity, social equity, and not lead to outcomes that
create inequities. But happy to continue to have this discussion, as it is an interesting one. Thank
you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska, if I may have a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Director.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Holly, bill, and Jim, thank you so much for your presentation.
And it's difficult, I'm sure, because of the pandemic and how it's impacted everything that we used
to know and do. And I think it's changed a lot of what we're going to be doing in the future and
perhaps permanently.
And I'm not sure how many folks have gone back to work downtown, but it's my sense that maybe
50%. And many of those folks are riding our train. So in one sense, consolidating the trains because
we have fewer people going downtown, I'm not sure if you've taken that into account. But I think
that telecommuting is going to be more and more the wave of the future for certain segments of
our workforce. And so I'm wondering if you've taken that into account or if you have plans to
really dive deep into that.
HOLLY BUCK: So for the-- this is Holly Buck. Thank you for that question. We have not yet
taken that into account in the analysis that we've completed so far. So when you saw the data

results from the four scenarios, it does not take that into account. That is based on current-- what
we call current DRCOG demographic data.
We do have plans, however, to try to get a better handle on how RTD's commuting patterns may
change as a result of some changes in trip-generation patterns to offices. And we'll be doing some
modeling around that to try and-- I don't think anybody is trying to claim they know exactly what's
going to happen, but our intent is to give you some-- what we refer to as bookends so that we can
sort of frame the conversation and get a better understanding of that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, because you hear these big, big companies who've been having their
employees all work from home. And they've said they're selling their real estate, and all the
employees can stay working at home. Employees are happier. They have more time to spend with
their family. And they do a better job, and their productivity is actually higher.
So not the case for everybody, but certainly a large segment of our workforce. And so I think that's
going to be really important to look at moving forward. Madam Chair, that is the end of my
question and comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Is there anybody else? Yes?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: I would just like to comment, I guess, along some of those same lines. Now is a
really, really terrible time to make drastic changes to our system with this pandemic going on. And
we have so little knowledge of what's going to happen in the future as it pertains to our tax base
and so forth.
It's kind of like we're on the Titanic. We've hit the iceberg, and we're still now working on
allocating the deck chairs. And the timing is terrible. There's so many unknowns at this point in
time that we're just setting ourselves up to make some terrible blunders. That's my comment. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Perhaps we should look at partnering with
Verizon instead of with Uber. OK. So if there's no other comments at this time, we still have
another update to hear. Thank you, Holly. Thank you, Jim. Thank you, Bill.
Now, our next update is on the General Managers core goal number two, which is addressing
transit equity, something that we have been talking about, so a nice segue. And who's going to
update us on that tonight?
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes, this is Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services.
KATE WILLIAMS: Paul, take it away.

PAUL HAMILTON: Yep, thank you. What you have in your packet is a two-page memo that was
put together by Civil Rights on April the 10th. And what it addresses are the two advisory
committees that we have that work with our disability community, ACPD and APAC. And it
updates goals that are part of that plan and primarily provides just a few updates that focus on
transparency, which, as you know, we've been working on in the last several months.
Key among them were both ACPD and APAC, that there is a proposal now that the RTD Board
Chair appoint a Board member to act as a liaison, a representative, on both ACPD and APAC.
Additionally, and as you already know, we've begun to provide minutes of our meetings from
APAC. We've also got in here a proposal that ACPD will begin to do the same.
There really isn't much more to this by way of an update. So I think at this point, I would open it
up for questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Hamilton. I will go around. My understanding was that there
was an update to the update.
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: But I'll go around. Yeah? Hello?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Yes, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair.
[LAUGHTER]
As you all recall, during our March Board senior leadership retreat, we discussed how the Board
could leverage our existing ADA committees to enhance the Board's and the agency's relationship
with the disability community. Boy, March seems like a really, really long time ago.
I think the staff did present an excellent plan to increase the board's involvement with these
communities. And I just want to say that Director Williams has volunteered to serve as a liaison
to the ACPD advisory committee for people with disabilities. And that will continue to report to
the Board through the Civil Rights Committee, which it does currently. And Director Williams
will periodically present the committee's key findings and takeaways. So thank you, Director
Williams.
I am now also looking to appoint a Director to serve as the liaison for APAC, which is the AccessA-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee. That committee will report to the board through the
Operations and Customer Service Committee. If anybody is interested in serving in that position,
please let me know. It would be for the remainder of this year, and then next year would be a whole
different year. But that's what we're looking at through the end of the year. And that's all I have to
say. Thank you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. We have to have some differentiation
here. OK. I'm going to ask if any of the Directors have questions or comments on that update. And
we'll go through it alphabetically. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, no comments. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, I appreciate Chair Rivera-Malpiede reminding
us of the discussion and items that were brought forth from the March retreat. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No, just to say thank you to the Chair and also Paul Hamilton.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Also in the March Board meeting, I urged very strongly
that this board and SLT and, actually, as many people as we can get in upper management go
through a sensitivity awareness training program. And the Access Board does it for free. And I
imagine now, because of COVID, they don't have to fly out. We could do it over Zoom, and it
would be free.
It seems that that is an important and key element to understanding this group of our constituents.
And yeah, I've been pushing this since I got elected. And so here we are 7 and 1/2 years into this,
and it hasn't happened. And in large part, that's why we were pulled into this, now, Oversight
Committee. But I have heard nothing about that.
And I am kind of discouraged, really. And so the idea of volunteering to sit on any of these other
boards just falls on my deaf ears. It's unfortunate, and I'm disappointed. So those are my comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. I'm sorry, also. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comment, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually want to take a moment to thank Director
Menten. She and I actually worked on this early on, prior to the Board retreat, and brought it up in
the Board retreat. I think it's really important that we don't erase people's contributions. And so
just wanted to take the opportunity to thank her for her work and her foresight on this.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Yes, I do have a comment. I am very glad that we're trying to improve
our relationship with the disability community. I have had a conversation, several conversations,
with a member of the disability community who has reported to me that he feels that real opinions
of many people in the disability community about riding our services are not being heard by the
Board.
And he suggested that we have a dinner with throwing it open to people from the disability
community once a year the way we have a dinner meeting with the CAC. And that idea was
bandied about, but it was never meant to be, because all hell broke loose after the idea was raised.
And it just got pushed under the rug because of other things happening.
But I really would urge that there be some way for people in the disability community who use our
services to be able to really just tell Board members person to person what they feel is going on. I
think that would be greatly appreciated. And I would like the idea. Maybe we could do-- I don't
know if there's Zoom meetings or phone meetings-- just like a dinner but without the food, because
we can't do that now. Anyway, thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just thanks to Director Lewis for her words, and I appreciate her
involvement in it, also. Beyond that point, I do not have any questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing additional at this time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing here. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing further from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Nothing further from me. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: And nothing further from me. So having gone through our updates, I'm going
to move onto some information items now. We have our SMS performance data information
through the year to date up through June of 2020. And who's going to speak to us about that?
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Meader. Go ahead.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you. Yes, I'm going to go ahead and introduce Dan McClain, who's
our Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental. And he is going to briefly walk through some
of the points here of our midyear safety performance for the Board and then discuss some
upcoming SMS updates, our Safety Management System updates, and presentation upcoming to
the Board. So with that, Dan, I'll turn it over to you.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK. This is Dan McClain, Madam Chair. And we'll go over the packet. The
first part of the packet, starting on page 154, is the on-the-job injuries that have occurred. As you
can see on page 155, the reduction in service has also reduced the amount of injuries and impact
we had.
The type of injuries on 157 are relatively the same. The differences over last year is that the slip
and falls are still higher than we ended last year. And then we've had more struck or injured by,
and those are typically the results of operator assaults.
The rates are down, again, due to the lack of-- the reduction in service. And if you go to the bus
and rail performance, the bus performance, you can see our accidents are down substantially.
Again, you're comparing a half year to a full year, so it doesn't look as dramatic on the bus
accidents. The rail safety, same. And 2020, when you look at the two-hour reportable events, that's
18. That's a half year versus the full years that are in comparison.
But our month over month red signal violations have went down substantially. But so far in July,
we've had five. So with that, fatalities, we've had two fatalities on the system, one on the commuter
rail system. It was a bicycle versus train at the Quebec crossing. And then we had a fatality at the
Abilene Station on the light rail system, but the video and the autopsy showed that the individual
actually suffered a medical event that caused his death and then fell into the train as he was
attempting to board.
With the PUC, we are currently-- with the COVID, it interrupted our ability to audit face to face.
We're doing virtual audits. And then we're going to have special protocols, including setting
requirements for temperature taking for having them to come examine documents and interview
employees as we get further into this month and into early August.
The next section is about the COVID update and how RTD has addressed it. We do have a timeline
that can be provided if necessary, capturing events and efforts that have been developed and
deployed. There was a lot of coordination with Operations, Procurement, and Safety, and it was
critical to make sure that we found the right suppliers. Suppliers disappeared. Purchasing were

amazing in finding what they could find. And we were able to find substitutes for the individuals,
the hand sanitizers and disinfectants, the PPE, to get that in.
Currently, we're sitting at a pretty good spot right now. But it's been 20 weeks of-- the first 15 were
pretty chaotic during that. Thus far, RTD implemented a COVID-19 paid leave policy to try to
keep the sick people at home and the healthy people at work. And so far this year, 576 employees
have utilized that leave. It addresses people that have symptoms. It addresses high-risk people. It
also addresses people that have child care.
We've been very aggressive with Operations. If someone has any of the symptoms and anything
that would have them considered or their family does, we have been sending them home. We've
been very fortunate compared to our peers. We have only had 13 confirmed cases of COVID-19
so far. The last confirmed cases were in the last part of May, early part of June.
The bullet here in understanding exposure, this created a lot of fear initially, because people didn't
understand what exposure was as defined by the epidemiologist. Exposure's defined by the
epidemiologist as being within someone that's actively expressing symptoms for 60 minutes within
six feet or within 30 minutes within three feet. Communicating that to the workforce and to our
people, understanding a little bit more how this coronavirus spreads.
The next slide, page 164, kind of mimics even the Colorado hospitalization shape. And this is the
number of leave occurrences per week that we had in RTD.
Shifting to the SMS road map, a couple of things. The one major thing I wanted to highlight-we're going to have the study session on the 28th of July, where we'll present our consultants and
their finding of the gap analysis that they'll have. And prior to that meeting, we have a video we'd
like all the Board members to watch. It is actually a Metrolink board safety video that's very
impactful. And that will help frame the conversation on the 28th.
Again, the milestones for the 2020 roadmap-- clear responsibilities and expectations defined at all
levels from the Board to the employees, the implementation of the roadmap developed by the
SMEs, and development of a risk registry across RTD.
The next slide, I apologize. It was an animated slide. I should have made two slides out of one. It's
out of the consultants that are helping us with the gap analysis presentation that you'll see on the
28th. The blue mark is where we are. The red mark is where we're trying to get to.
And then the upcoming initiatives on page 168 are basically rolling out an event notification,
reporting, and investigation process and procedure, looking at causal factors which really haven't
been nailed into in RTD in the past along with a system that helps us track that, helps them
investigate that, and helps us put together corrective and preventative actions to minimize the
amount of events that we have. And with that, that's all I have. Questions?
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir?

MICHAEL MEADER: Just wanted to add, just make one point here before we have any questions.
This particular item, the SMS and then the next asset management, were incorrectly identified as
information items. Typically, for information items, we would not have a presentation or any
expectation of that. They were misidentified and should have been in the updates in this particular
case.
So I just wanted to make that clear. Ongoing, any information items will not have a presentation
associated with them.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I think we're OK with that right now. But we appreciate that
clarification. I'll go through and see if the Directors have questions or comments on the safety
management system. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, actually, I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks so much for that
presentation. And I was very instrumental, I guess you could say. I brought the idea of this safety
campaign way back a few years ago called-- a couple Board members really hated it, but it was
pretty effective. It's called Dumb Ways to Die. And it worked pretty well for a lot of kids, right?
It was geared toward kids.
And after these last couple of-- now, I understand that this gentleman who fell into the light rail
train because of a medical event, that's one thing. But we do have really tragic things, people dying
on our trains and light rails. And so I was wondering, gentlemen, have we had any children have
fatal accidents on our system going on the train?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MICHAEL MEADER: Go ahead, Dan.
DAN MCCLAIN: Go ahead, Mike.

MICHAEL MEADER: You got it. Go ahead.
DAN MCCLAIN: You have more history.
MICHAEL MEADER: No, this is Mike Meader Chief Safety and Security Officer. We have not,
certainly in recent years, had any kind of fatalities involving children that we're going-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. That's all I just needed to know.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so it seems like they got the memo, right? They know how to use our
system really well. And so I was thinking, I brought it up to our Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that maybe
we should do a district-wide contest with children of all ages doing videos individually, groups,
schools, classrooms, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, on how to use the system safely to teach the adults.
And I'm serious about that. We're talking Smokey the Bear-type stuff here. We're talking about the
littering campaigns. And I think putting safety-- not just not getting run over by the trains, but
staying COVID safe.
And a lot of the folks that are transmitting this virus, they're asymptomatic. So it doesn't matter if
you take their temperature or they have-- they're just asymptomatic. I don't know what the
percentage is, but I know it's a significant one. It's kind of surprising, really.
So I hope that you take that seriously. It could be a fun thing. It could create a core, a community,
and actually be very effective, because children can really change behavior of their adults in their
lives. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thank you for the report. It's always interesting. If I heard
you correctly, Mr. McClain, you're talking about the definition of exposure to COVID by
epidemiologists as, from someone who's actively expressing symptoms, that just 60 minutes of
exposure within six feet or 30 minutes within three feet, is that right?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, that's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DAN MCCLAIN: No, I was just going to go to the point that Director Folska said, as I believe the
CDC has said this week, that they're up to 40% of the COVID carriers are asymptomatic. But this
is the information and the guidance we've got from the Denver Department of Public Health and
Environment, the Tri County Department of Health and Environment, and the Jefferson County
and Boulder County health departments. This is how they would do the tracing if an individual
was identified as having a COVID positive. Then they go in there and do the interviews of, who
have you been around this long for this much time and when?

LYNN GUISSINGER: It surprises me. We had a friend of mine who is a pandemic expert come
and speak. And just reading everything that's in the papers, I definitely agree that they're saying
40% are asymptomatic.
But I also haven't heard those numbers that it takes 60 minutes within six feet. I think it does take
some period of time, but those sound longer than what I've heard. But if that's what they're sending
out from the public health departments, I guess I'm not questioning it. It's just they're surprising
numbers. I guess that's all. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually will just say ditto to what Director
Guissinger had put on, because I am also surprised by that. And then I have a question of clarity,
because it's not really broken down well.
I don't even know what page this is. It's packet page 162. It says 576 employees have utilized the
RTD COVID-19 emergency leave, 90 in May and 66 in June. I'm curious as to what the breakdown
for the other months were.
And as we look at our workforce, are you seeing more? are front-line staff utilizing the RTD
COVID-19 emergency leave? How is that broken down in terms of the different positions,
particularly our essential folks?
DAN MCCLAIN: Madam Chair, this is Dan McClain. So that the chart that's on the following
page, Director Lewis, is by week of what the occurrence is of someone using emergency leave.
Emergency leave in our leave policies is when you are unable to work from home due to COVID
symptoms or families having COVID symptoms.
Much of the staff, when this occurred, they were able to work from home-- say, when they had a
son or a daughter or a spouse that had symptoms. So they would code it to regular pay, because
we were working from home anyway. So most of these occurrences-- I would say upwards of 90%
of these occurrences-- are from those that were essential workers-- mechanics, FM, Facility
Maintenance, and our operators.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I can't recall of when we went to rear-door boarding. And I'm curious if you've
seen a decline in the number of employees who were utilizing the emergency leave when we
instituted the rear-door boarding.
DAN MCCLAIN: I believe we instituted the rear-door boarding around April 1. And Mike, if you
have better recollection than I do-MICHAEL MEADER: Yep, that's right.
DAN MCCLAIN: But I think we had a-- you look at the count on the chart that's on page-- packet
164, it shows there that uptick of 54. There were some-- and to be honest, Director Lewis, I've

talked to most everybody that has had it or had symptoms. And you have some that really liked
rear-door boarding, and you had some that thought it was the cause of them getting sick.
So it goes across the gamut there. But you can see on the week eight, April 20, 26, we had an
uptick. And then we just started going down. But last week, this was up to last week. The current
week, we had 23 occurrences. So still have that normal flatline on the bottom.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And then the last question I have for you is around this contact
tracing. I wasn't sure I understood you correctly, and so I just wanted to clarify, if you could, the
contact tracing. Were you saying that it was difficult to do the contact tracing? I'm not sure if I
understood you correctly.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK. No, it was more of a statement around the exposure. But I will say that the
exposure is how they determine contract-- how they do the contact tracing. So if an individual is
tested COVID positive, then they go and ask that individual, who were you around for 60 minutes
or 30 minutes?
And to be honest, in the early part of this, the health departments were overwhelmed. I would have
a COVID positive given to me by an employee, and I wouldn't get confirmation for three weeks
from the health department, because they didn't have time. They were just too overwhelmed. But
right now, they are looking at-- in fact, we just had a couple of calls with the Denver Department
of Public Health and Environment, and they want to look in all of our occurrences and to see how
they were managed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful. And I agree with the folks feeling overwhelmed. And it
actually leads me into one more question around, have we considered utilizing our own RTD
employees for the contact tracing?
And the reason I ask that is because I would imagine that it would be imperative for us to know,
right, particularly for our front-line staff if they're being exposed to and exposing others potentially
to COVID or just having that enhanced exposure. I'm curious if we've ever considered doing the
contact tracing in-house.
DAN MCCLAIN: So our guidance from the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment was to work with the local counties to do that. There was a lot of fear and anxiety.
And as everyone knows, in the first six weeks of this, we had a couple that were actually false
positives. That created a lot of fear and anxiety.
And so that's why the County Health wants to validate that it is a positive for sure. And then they
come in, and they do the interviews and then, if they can, do the contact tracing. But as I said, early
on, they weren't prepared for this. And so I think as we go forth here, with the increased testing in
Denver, there will be increased contact tracing.
And Mike and I have daily or weekly calls with the Denver Department of Public Health and
Environment. And they have trained other people in Denver and staff to do the contact tracing. So
they've beefed up their department to be able to do that, the same with the other counties.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's it. That's all I have. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Nothing for me, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Nothing.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing for me, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. [COUGHS] Excuse me. Just for the sake
of the record, rear-door boarding was actually implemented on Sunday, April 5, so close enough
for government work. But April 5 was the date.
And the mention of Dumb Ways to Die just brought back recollection of Don't Be a Jimmy. And
since we just approved the code of conduct tonight, I thought, well, maybe it's time to resurrect
Don't Be a Jimmy, as well. That's all that I had. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Tisdale. I remember that, also. Director
Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Thanks for the presentation. I'm wondering if you're ready to carry this
on for another year until a vaccine is proven effective. That's all.
DAN MCCLAIN: Madam Chair? Yeah, Madam Chair, this is Dan McClain.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Dan.
DAN MCCLAIN: Director Walker, we now have 21 weeks of experience. And we've honed our
ability to do this. I think we can-- I think the bigger question is how we're paying these individuals
that are off to keep our workplace safe, because it is a financial hit to pay people the emergency
leave that we have.
I'm not sure how that's sorted out in the CARES Act, but that's a bigger thing if we have another
spike like we had in early March and April. And to me, the best way to keep your workplace safe
is to keep the people sick out, and that costs money.
But as far as we're looking at the Logistics, Operations-- Operations have been awesome in this.
The Division Managers have really stepped up. And they've got this down to making sure that we

keep our workplace safe in the current mode that we are. And we all expect it. So I don't know if
I answered your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Dan.
JEFF WALKER: Yep, that's fine. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right, thanks, Dan. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks for the presentation, Dan. I have nothing to ask.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Dan, and thank you, Mr. Meader. It was a great
presentation. I have nothing to add. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. I have nothing myself. Thank you, gentlemen. So we will
move onto the transit asset management plan element. And we're going to get an update or a piece
of information on that, as well. And who is doing that for us tonight?
MICHAEL MEADER: Madam Chair, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer. I
will introduce to you Lou Cripps, our Senior Manager for Asset Management. And he'll give you
a brief update on the transit asset management plan. Lou.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Meader. Good evening, Mr. Cripps. Have at it.
LOU CRIPPS: Thank you again. Hello, I'm Lou Cripps, Senior Manager of Asset Management.
And I know we've all met, and much of this will be review. This starts on page 173 of your packet.
There's no specific ask tonight. This is intended to remind everyone that RTD does have an asset
management system. And much like our safety management system, it really needs to be at the
core of our business.
We are current and compliant with all regulations. But in order to remain compliant, we must
continue to improve our asset management system. So I'd like to start with a question to kind of
make a point. Can you think of any instance where making short-term decisions about one's health
with disregard to the future leads to better outcomes?
Well, of course not. So the same goes true for our agency and our assets. We need to consider the
temporal nature of all of our decisions and subsequent actions. We need to do what's best for
current us and still good for future us. These choices are often not complex, but they're extremely
challenging to execute, as I'm sure everyone on the Board knows. So asset management helps us
make those choices.
So on page 174 here, we've got a couple of simple yet really important topics. And that's our TAM
plan and the requirements that are prescribed. We have nine prescribed elements. We have to shift
our focus back to asset stewardship.

And lastly, what the Board should expect from asset management practices. So you'll notice a
reference in your handout to item B. This will be in the next Board update. Since there was a lot
on our plate and the goal was brevity, I moved this to the next update. However, I neglected to cut
off that reference in your slide. So just to get that out there, I did not include that.
So TAM plan requirements, those nine elements, I know the new list is not new to most of you.
But it's worth revisiting to ensure that we understand the regulatory obligations. This needs to be
revisited, because baked into the legislation is something that's kind of unique-- that we stay
compliant through continual improvement. So the requirements only get tighter as time goes on.
We can't rest on our laurels or any past successes.
It's also worth noting that the intent of the regulation is that the Board is a regulatory body and that
the law requires the agency to be accountable. So they name the accountable executive, which is
the CEO. We don't get to evaluate our own compliance or performance to the standards. We're
accountable to auditors against the standards.
So I'm going to quickly run down this list, because I've included in your handout-- it's in the packet- a more detailed list of what's in each one of these. But we basically have to have a complete
inventory. And that includes all the attributes around cost, useful life, those sort of things.
Condition assessments-- we have to understand the condition of our assets. We need decision
support tools. That's not software but rather the mechanism by which we make and support our
decisions. The output of that is a prioritized list of investments.
The product is often referred to as the AMP, the Asset Management Plan. That's something Heather
talks about a lot, because that's our list of prioritized investments for assets that we provide to the
federal government and DRCOG.
We're also required to have a policy. And then we have to have an implementation strategy. So we
have a strategy to execute the plan that we have, which gives us this list of business as usual key
annual activities. We're also required to identify our resources that we use to implement the asset
management system.
And finally, there's this evaluation of the plan. So you have to evaluate whether your plan is
delivering what you expect. So you have a plan, do, check, act system, which is you say what you
do, you do what you say, and then you check to make sure it delivered your outcome.
And then again, we've got this message of accountability. So the accountable executive is the CEO.
They've set some mandatory deadlines. Again, RTD is fully compliant. And we need to be to
maintain our grant eligibility.
So what's important here is the integration of these elements into a system-wide framework to
provide true value. So these are management systems. Asset management is defined as the
coordinated activities of an organization to realize value from assets. RTD really only has people
and assets, and RTD's value to our taxpayers is when we're efficient and effective in service
delivery utilizing these public assets.

So we have to deliver on our purpose of moving people through assets. But if we only seek to meet
minimum compliance, we leave a lot of value on the table. And this is why RTD's Board and the
accountable executive set the directive and the commitment to follow the international standard
for asset management, which is what I'll bring you an update on at the next Ops Committee that I
bring an update.
So keeping this short, as you can see on the left side of page 176, prior to COVID-19, the FDA
introduced this legislation because public transit was not doing a good job taking care of public
resources-- in particular, our assets. So they set a rule. They told us there wasn't enough money,
and we just needed to be more strategic. But they also bring in this idea of stewardship.
Oh, by the way, these statements are coming from the Federal Register. And kind of the evidence
that we're not doing a good job is transit has $90 billion in backlog. RTD still has over $250 million
in backlog. And that was before the COVID-19 crisis.
And backlog are assets that are beyond their useful life and not in a state of good repair per the
definitions from the feds. So if the intent is to introduce the idea of stewardship and the shift in
focus from expansion to taking care of what we already have, this is made even more important
with the financial pressures put on us from COVID-19.
So expectations-- here's what you should expect from asset management system or practice. It's
simple, really. You should expect transparent, repeatable decision processes for physical assets,
the appropriate level of understanding of physical assets, and finally, on slide 178, this is what we
need from you. We need the Board to embody the stewardship mindset that we understand the
intergenerational liabilities that we're delivering with our assets, that saying yes to anything is
saying no to all the other alternatives.
As map 21 originally pointed out, we have constraints and needs. And the COVID-19 pandemic
has exaggerated our challenges. And the idea of stewardship is more important than ever.
By the way, these statements on 178 are just slightly modified National Park Service stewardship
statements. And I really see our Board as serving in a similar role. And that comes with a great
amount of responsibility now and for the future.
So again, there's no specific ask of the Board other than to keep in mind the legacy we want to
leave behind and our collective roles as stewards of public assets. So if you have any questions-one final note, asset management will be now on the Ops Committee about a quarterly update to
give you updates on our progress towards that standard and where we are as compliance as some
of our future deadlines approach. That's all I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, Mr. Cripps. I'm going to see if the Board has questions on
this. We'll go through this alphabetically. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. All I have to say is, wow, that was incredible. I love that presentation.
I could hear and feel your dedication, energy, and passion for this. And I think it's so timely and
important that you start doing this update on a quarterly basis, because it's clear that we have been
missing this bit of information. Thank you so very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. Thank you very much. It was a good report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate this report, and I especially appreciate
the reminder that our yes to something is a no to something else and to remember our legacy. I
think that is incredibly important as we each sit through all that COVID has to offer but also what
we would like for our transportation system to look like. So thank you so much for this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No comments, but thank you for the report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Folska just stole the words right out of my mouth. I got to say,
"passionate" is the exact word that came to mind in hearing that and to hear somebody talk
passionately about capital assets and remembering saying yes means you're saying no to something
else in some cases.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten, we're losing you there. OK. Have we lost everybody?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All I ended there was saying that I applauded this
speech and the reminder.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: I'll second that. I wish I had that much energy right now.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wish I had as much passion as
Director Folska demonstrated. God bless her. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Mr. Cripps, always a pleasure to hear you speak and hear a presentation
from you. And I think this is a perfect complement to Reimagine RTD, since we're talking about
asset management and maintenance and hours of operation and service and all the good things that
we bring to the region. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Great presentation. I have no further questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: I agree. Everything's been said. Thank you so very much for the
presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm the only one left, I guess. Mr. Cripps, thank you. It was great to hear
something that we don't hear enough about, and we appreciate the work that you do for our agency.
OK. I think that we have two more information items. We have some information on service
availability for June of 2020. And do we have a staff member that wants to give us an overview or
talk to us?
FRED WORTHEN: Madam Chair, Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I have nothing to add
to the report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. I'm going to go through this one. I'm going
to go through rail updates. And then I'll let anybody ask questions of either. How would that be?
Everybody OK with that? Now, Mr. Jensen, are you going to tell us anything different about our
Rail Operations update?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations, and I have nothing to add to the
report submitted.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I will go through the Directors to see if they have questions on either of
these updates. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the reports.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thanks. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Nothing.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Same for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have seven quest-- no, not really. Nothing more
from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] That's because nobody else asked questions, so you have to ask
them for yourself. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am also good. Thank you, gentlemen, Mr. Worthen and Mr. Jensen, for your
updates that we got in our packet. That leaves us to other matters. Are there any other matters to
come before this committee tonight? OK. Hearing crickets.
The next meeting of the Operations and Customer Service Committee will be August 11 at the
same location, at the same time. And do I hear a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do I hear a second?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We are going to take a five-minute break before we come to the next
committee, which is Financial and Administration and Audit Committee. And I think that those
people who are calling in will get some music in the interim. Thank you all very much, and good
evening.

