Oct 30 2018 0530 PM Study Session
DOUG TISDALE: It is now 5:30 PM. And we are commenced here in the RTD conference
rooms. And welcome to my version of "Last Man Standing."
[LAUGHTER]
We have some absent Directors on the front of the dais here. Thank you, Director Archuleta. We
appreciate that.
All right, so at this time, it is appropriate for us to have the roll called by our Board's Executive
Manager. Before she commences that process, however, I will note for the sake of those of you
who are here, and it's like church-- most people are in the back instead of in the front, but thank
you for sitting in the front-- please do note that all of the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are digitally video recorded, and will be captioned, and made available to the public
via the Board's website.
And actually, before I call upon Ms. McManus to do the roll, I will give you a very brief safety
moment. First of all, when trick or treating tomorrow night, always travel with a responsible
adult, and be sure to wear reflective clothing. And don't eat any candy that looks like it has been
tampered with in any way.
And when attending an RTD Board meeting, always pay attention to safety instructions from our
police staff and your Chair. And if there should be, God forbid, a medical emergency where 911
needs to be called, our RTD General Counsel will make that telephone call. Any medically
trained individuals who are present are respectfully requested to assist. Remember that an
automatic emergency defibrillator device, an AED, is in a glass case located just outside this
room on the wall, on the right-hand side.
And if there is a need to evacuate the building, please calmly exit out the door you came in. Take
the stairs to the first floor, and exit through the front door. Officers will be there to direct you to a
safe meet-up place. If you need special assistance to evacuate, RTD staff will assist you.
And a reminder, please be sure to download and learn how to use the RTD Transit Watch app on
your smartphone, which provides real-time communication with our police force. Thank you.
And actually, we won't take a roll, because this is a study session that we are convened in this
evening. So we don't take a formal roll, although the presence of Directors is noted for the
record.
We do, however, have the opportunity presented for those who are not in the room with us to
join us on the telephone. So let me at this time, so that we have an understanding as to that, ask,
are there any Directors with us on the telephone this evening?
JUDY LUBOW: Hi, it's Judy.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lubow is present. Any other Director present on the
telephone this evening? All right, then thank you very much, Director Lubow. We appreciate
that.
We have two matters that are before us on study session this evening. The first is as to the N
Line. And we will have an operations and maintenance status update. And as I understand it Mr.
Stopplecamp, you are going to lead us off in this discussion.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct. So this is Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager (AGM) Capital Programs. The table we've got David Jensen, AGM Rail Operations
and Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer. So in the next couple hours-- no, sorry.
[LAUGHTER]
In the next few minutes, we're going to go through a series of slides. You have seen these in your
packet. And allow these slides of slides that you've seen before, but what we wanted to do today
is go rather quickly through the history of the North Metro, where we are as an organization, and
then talk about where we stand on the stand-up of the North Metro Commuter Rail operations,
and then close it off with a series of questions.
So I'll will probably be about the first 10 or 11 slides, turn over to Dave. And then he'll turn it
back over to me the last few slides. We'll close it up, and open it up for questions.
So with that, let's go ahead and start. And I know the Chair always gives a safety briefing, but
just wanted to throw out, what is safety? It's the freedom of unintentional harm. It's feeling safe,
thinking about what you're doing.
There's a lot of things out there. And one of the stats that I think is very important to realize is
how the industry has reduced accidents and deaths in the workplace over the years. And there are
a few stats in there for you.
But the rail industry as a whole was not the safest industry for a number of years. And it is
performing below the 2.9 per 100 that's shown there in 2016. So other railroads were down to 1,
1.2, 1.3. So the railroad industry does take safety as a number one goal and priority. And so does
RTD.
So with that, we'll talk a little bit about RTD history. And I'm not to go through and read all these
slides. But what I wanted to do with the slides is kind of point out that standing up a commuter
rail operation is nothing new. It's just a different form of transportation.
Back in 1969, we stood up the RTD District. Several milestones were done in the early '70s. And
in the '90s, we stepped up, and we started a light rail system, 5.3 miles, at less than a dozen
vehicles.

Now we've got over 200 vehicles and over 50 miles of light rail across the system. So we use the
resources we had among the bus side, and created a fantastic light rail system, and continued on
the bus system. And we're doing the same thing with the commuter rail operations.
With the expansion of the FasTracks program and the Eagle P3, we brought on Denver Transit
Partners (DTP) to stand up the first system. And now we have the opportunity to stand up our
own commuter rail operations. Once again, we're drawing from the resources we have
throughout the district.
So I just wanted to point out that this is nothing new. Standing up a new operation can be done.
We have done it very successfully over the years.
So North Metro, back in 2013, we got an unsolicited proposal, said, hey, yes, we think we can
make a system work for you. So we put an Request for Proposal (RFP) out on the street, and
awarded a contract in December of 2013 to Regional Rail Partners. And we've been working on
the project ever since.
And yes, you guys are aware of some of the stumbling blocks we've had. But we have built the
longest bridge in the state of Colorado, 9,500 linear feet. So here's the stats on the North Metro
Corridor.
Don't want to go into detail on that, but the big thing we do need to talk about real briefly is the
interface with the Eagle project. And like I said, these slides you've seen before. But just a
friendly reminder that we ought to be using the same fleet that we're using on the Eagle system,
same power.
The power comes from two substations on Argo and out on the sandown for the A Line and the
B Line. And that power will be pushed up through the N Line. We've done several enabling
works at the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility to take care of the additional fleet and
equipment out there. And really, the only track interface is about 1,200 feet at Denver Union
Station. So these are things that we need to work through with DTP.
Now where do we stand on construction status? This is one thing that hasn't been brought to the
Board in a while, so I'm going to go through it real quick. And we've got Chuck Culig in the
back row, who is the Project Manager. And so if I can't cover enough details, Chuck can go way,
way in the weeds on this one.
But we're about 85% complete. We've got some station work. All the track is laid throughout the
corridor. We are working on the overhead contact system, and testing the breakers and relays
across the system.
So we had a very successful shutdown last weekend the last time. We actually turned the track
back over early, and started up the Commuter Rail operations. So the track's done for the most
part, the overhead contact system. The systems as a whole, we're setting the last signal
bungalows out there, putting the last conduit in for the fiber poles, and tying it all together.

The one thing that we've tried to do on the right-hand side of these slides is show some of the
recent pictures. But this is the Skyway Bridge. And instead of going with the final one, we
thought it was more impressive to see the piers coming up out of the ground when we were
building it.
But that's 9,000 feet of structure, which is a challenge in itself. So all the bridges have been done,
the retaining walls. And we've got some drainage improvements still need to be done around the
Marion Bridge [INAUDIBLE] in that location.
Where we stand on stations-- we don't have any station 100% complete, but their in phases from
platforms poured to canopies up. They're coming along. We should have most of the stations
done first quarter of next year.
And the big one is the 104th parking structure the PCL is building for us. That structure is
coming out of the ground. We've done the first two slabs, got five more to pour going vertical.
Things looking pretty good on it. So we are making progress at all the stations across the
corridor.
So it's got a lot of detail in here, but 124th is part of the closest station to be completed. We've
got a little bit of asphalt that needs to be patched up, and we're basically punch-list items on
124th. But the 124th Station is pretty much complete at this time.
So a little bit of history-- why we're here, why are RTD is standing this system up. So these
milestones were put out there over the last couple of years with the Board members. But back in
2016, we started looking at the system trying to figure out, does RTD operate this? Do we turn
over to DTP? Do we put it out on the street for an RFP?
So we went through an extensive process evaluating the system, trying to figure out what made
sense for the organization. And this wasn't based on just dollar amount. It was based on
operations, flexibility, coordination with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) - Public
Utlities Commission (PUC). All that was put in the hopper to see what it would look like, and
what would the operations look like.
So we did have our first proposal in, which was the RPC 60. RPC is a Request for a Change.
And we sat down with DTP, and worked through our scope of work, and went back and forth
over that for quite some time.
We did get a final proposal in, and evaluated against several criteria. Like I said, cost was not the
only criteria. It was the flexibility, and what do we end up with at the end the day.
So we did take it to the Board of Directors last fall. It was put in the budget for 2018. It's covered
in the 2019 SBP or mid-range financial plan. And so the project has been budgeted, and we are
moving forward as far as the hiring, setting up the facilities that we need along the corridor.
So with this, I'm going to turn this over to Dave Jensen, cover some slides, and then back talking
about some of the capital improvements of the [INTERPOSING VOICES] quarter.

BOB BROOM: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Do you want us to hold questions until the end of this two-hour presentation? Or
do you want to pick them?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It's 15 minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate the question, and I think that Mr. Stopplecamp has
already addressed it. We anticipated that we would have about 15 minutes or so of presentation.
We've used up about five to eight minutes of that.
BOB BROOM: OK.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And then we'll have Mr. Jensen proceed. And then Mr. Stopplecamp
may finish up. And then we'll have questions at that time. And I'm certain that there will be at
least five to eight minutes of questions.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I'm Dave Jensen, AGM of rail operations. And so for this year
and moving forward, some of the milestones that we've accomplished, really, was RTD and FRA
having an informal coordination meeting. And some of our lessons learned really were to involve
the federal and state governments often and early. And so we are meeting with them quarterly, to
make sure that we're on the right path, and to minimize some of the pitfalls that that noncommunication can cause.
Then, looking forward for this year, really, it's the hiring that we're really focusing on. So it's our
hope that by the end of the year, December, we have 15 salaried FTDs on staff. Then for next
year, phasing it out into the next year of four quarters, in Quarter 1, we want to begin and
continue to hire and then train our employees.
The plan is to get our MOW Building, the temporary building up in operation. And then by
Quarter 3, we'd like to begin system performance demonstration testing. So that by Quarter 4 we
can have the FRA give an acceptance of pre-revenue new start program, and then get our rescue
locomotive in operation.
Part of the training approach that we'll use is to train our own staff, and use experts in their fields
to educate our staff. So there is some curriculum already available to us. We'll use that, what's
available to us, and then use experts to continue to educate us in train-the-trainer-type teaching
so that we can teach our staff. And then you can see the bullet points under training types of the
types of training that we'll provide-- public outreach, FRA drug and alcohol, roadway worker
protection, safety in the workplace, that sort of thing.
So for the org chart, the goal is to eventually hire 121 budgeted positions, 47 of which will be
salaried. 74 of them will be union positions. The plan is to incorporate 28 contracted positions.
And then again, the goal is to have 15 of the salaried positions hired by 2018. And the plan is a

three-phased plan for hiring. We've also started to utilize, and will incorporate the services of
other experts in their fields, including general counsel in labor relations for the union
negotiations and our head end integration. And then an even with rail operations and getting
advice on rescue locomotive and our training needs.
So the way that we're communicating internally, a Monday morning dispatch letter by Dave
Genova was issued September 4. We are providing Board updates. We would like to again, next
year, I believe in March, have another update for you, and then also allow some field visits if we
could coordinate that. And then communications is developing fact sheets on our own M
facilities and our dispatching efforts, and our OCC backup, so that we can communicate with
staff exactly where we are and what we're doing, and educate them, as well.
On the rescue locomotive, some of the key points, it is our intent to use the REC rescue
locomotive on the North Line. The goal is that a recovery time would not exceed 30 minutes. We
are working towards being able to procure additional locomotives if necessary.
The technology would be DMU. It would be outfitted with ATC and PTC. And then it needs to
be capable of pulling or operating with two married pair on a 4% grade. So the operating speed
when it isn't towing, we'd like to be able to do 40 miles an hour to get it to the train to rescue.
And then we need to be able to do at least 15 miles an hour when we're in the rescue mode. And
then the usable life will be about 30 years for that.
Our O and A facilities, some of the key points, the 711 project is located at 711 West 31st
Avenue in Denver. It will house administrative staff, train operators, and RTSOs, roughly 25
employees per shift. The plan is also that it could be used as an emergency backup for our OCC
or our Control Center. Then some of the milestones are listed as well. We should be able to move
in, the goal is, by March of 2019.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And with that, I'm going to take over. Third bay, the 711 West 34th
Street Building is a building we bought from the BNSF in order to put the Gold Line and
Northwest Rail Corridor through. We're finishing up the retrofit on bays One and Two for
Customer Care, and then Bay Two for Treasury. So Bay Three will be turned into the
Maintenance of Way operating facility. We've seen that.
The temporary Maintenance of Way field location will be out at US 85 and 72nd Avenue. It's an
existing Park and Ride that's underutilized. We'll still maintain the Park and Ride Driver Relief
Kiosk for our operators, but put a fenced-in compound, shown on the left-hand side. That'll be
our Phase One for the first couple years. We'll put some trailers in there, a mobile six-pack in
there.
And then Phase Two out on the corridor would be a Maintenance of Way facility that we can
store the rescue locomotive, maintain that as needed, do training offices for the signal track OCS
folks. And so that'll be out on the corridor. So we're in the process of designing both of those
facilities.

Capital and expenses going forward, we've got the rescue train. It's out for bid. We should be
getting packets in. Actually, we did get two bids in last week.
We've got the track turnouts are out for bid. Systems spare parts have been ordered. And then,
we are waiting for the state award for fleet vehicles, heavy equipment, radios, communications,
and stuff along with that. So those are capital expenses that go along with setting up the facility.
All this is budgeted in the 2018/2019 budget.
The big thing that Dave pointed out is the FRA-PUC coordination. We've had several informal
meetings, and a few formal meetings. We just had another one last week. But bottom line is we
have sat down with the FRA, found out what interests them, what are their concerns going
forward.
So we've laid that out in our plan. We're working with the FRA on the New Starts matrix, which
is a list of about 130 items that need to be completed in order to go into regular service. So
[INAUDIBLE] in the audience has taken a lead on that, and making sure all that happens. So we
are moving forward, finding out the operational needs for ourselves, and what the FRA and PUC
are looking at us to provide them.
The DTP interface-- we do have an existing RPC to maintain the fleet. So that's already under
contract, approved a couple of years ago. So the fleet, the 12 vehicles, six married pair, are being
maintained by DTP right now.
The current discussions, we need to talk about the testing needs, coordination, how to get out
there on the corridor and do the testing, temporary dispatching, the use of the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility for maintaining the equipment, and the dispatch side. And then the
commuter rail vehicles-- there may be some software upgrades needed, and training for operators
and test trains made available, and once again, the power usage. So this slide really mirrors one
of the earlier slides we were talking about as far as the interface between us and DTP.
Now, that the big one that everybody has asked, what about the [INAUDIBLE] crossings? So
we've got six [INAUDIBLE] crossings. Five of them fall under the PUC. The sixth one falls
under the FRA. But the [INAUDIBLE] crossings for this corridor look and feel a lot different
than they do on the University of Colorado A Line or the entire Eagle project. Most of these
crossings are standalone rail road crossings, rail going over the road.
We don't have parallel streets going through there. So on the University of Colorado A Line,
we've got Smith Road on the south side. And in some areas, we have Frontage Road on the north
side, with four, six lanes crossing our tracks. These are simple two to four-lane roads crossing
our tracks, so the pre-emption and coordination is a whole lot less.
System is being designed by Wabtec and Xorail, the same folks that are doing the University of
Colorado on A Line. But we are looking at some unique fixes. And we've been sitting down with
the contractor, and looking at seeing what we can do to improve the operation of the corridor
before it even goes into integration and then into pre-revenue service. So we're working with the
FRA and Wabtec and Xorail on these crossings.

We believe that we can meet the constant warning in the quiet zones for the crossings. The other
thing that we do not have at these crossings are quad gates, which eliminates the need for the
coordination for cyclists. We've got enough room for medians in all these crossings, so they look
and feel a lot different than the rest of the system.
So with that, I believe that covers it. And once again, thanks for the support of the Board on this
project. And with that, we're open for questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Mr. Stopplecamp. The entire Board
appreciates all the energy and work that our staff has put into this project. And it is a very
important one, and one that I will state, for the sake of the record, is now proceeding in an
anticipated and expected much speedier fashion pursuant to the resolution of issues and concerns
that has arisen between the parties. So let me first turn to Director Broom, and recognize you,
Director.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Is this the line that goes by the cemetery, where we had the
problem with the crossing? Or is that the B Line?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No. This is that the same line.
BOB BROOM: So how was that-- how did that end up?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So that's a great question. So this is the N Line that runs parallel to
the BNSF that goes by the Riverside Cemetery, historic cemetery here in Denver. We have got
all parties to agree to close the crossing.
In order to do that, Denver Fire wanted another access into the cemetery. So we have been
working with property owners and the Fire Department for another route in. We've agreed with
the cemetery with some modifications on York Street to improve the entrance. So what we're
doing right now is closing the crossing to the public, leaving it available for emergency services
until we get the alternative route put in for the Fire Department. So this crossing, when it's all
said done, will be closed.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Broom? Thank you very much. Director Williams,
you are recognized, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thanks, Henry. Great job. Good information. I appreciate
all the work you put into it.
I'm just concerned that we are looking to have 120 additional employees, when we are running at
83% of the employees we need now. And all over Denver, there are places that are going out of
business because they can't maintain staff. Do we have a plan, short of taking all the bus drivers
to drive the trains?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: First off, we're not taking the bus drivers. We're going to make the
first stab, and then we'll turn it over to the two gentlemen on my right-hand side. Whether we do
this or somebody else does it, there's going to be a shortage that we need to overcome.
And just putting the burden on somebody else, if they can't hire the operators, we're still in the
same boat. So our goal is to start reaching out early, first part of next year, and bring on as many
people as we can, also cross-train. For example, the rescue locomotive will be out there, and
we'll have some of our Maintenance of Way guys certified to take care of that, so we won't have
an operator standing by just for that locomotive. So we are looking at various options. But the
goal is not to steal from bus or light rail, but to come up with a new branch.
DAVE JENSEN: I would add, if I may, as well is that there is significant difference in the
qualifications for an FRA-run railroad. And so a lot of the people already on light rail might not
qualify. So they may not meet those qualifications.
It may be that we move some people from light rail to the commuter rail line. But again, as
Henry pointed out, they are all RTD employees. Once we get up to staff, though, we don't
anticipate there to be a tremendous turnover. And so once we get staffed, we should be able to
maintain our service level. So we're hoping that it won't be any worse than it is now.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I'm wondering if you guys are looking at-- because I'm pretty sure that
you had already told me that it was a different class of education that's needed. If we're looking
at working with any of the local high schools to train, offer a training program toward this
opening that specifically would put people into that branch? Or if there's anything that we could
do like that?
DAVE JENSEN: That might be something that's possible with maintenance, but not in
operations. Because the qualifications on a railroad-- first of all, they're not offered in high
schools. And second of all, the ones that are offered nationally, those are General Code of
Operations, GCOR qualifications.
And the rules and regulations that we're applying here aren't those. It's a completely new,
completely different set of rules and regulations. And so we have to do that training in-house in
order for them to be qualified.
KATE WILLIAMS: I get that. I'm just looking at there weren't race-car drivers when we had
horses. So I'm wondering if we can't maybe-- and I get that maybe they would have to start in
maintenance in order to move on up. But the fact is that you don't go to the local high school and
say you want to be a bus driver, because nobody jumps up and down. But you can go there and
say, how'd you like to drive a train, and people get excited about that.
And so I'm wondering if maybe we don't want to start something new and different. Just because
it wasn't done before doesn't mean that we couldn't start it now. And if we started it now, by the

time we need these people, which is two years from now, we might be moving toward that-- just
a thought.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, we actually need them next year.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I can't help you with that.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And most of them, I think for a locomotive certification is minimum
age of 21. But yes, if you look at the system that we've developed, it's a stair-step system. So you
come in as a laborer. You build the skills up.
Then you become a grinder, truck driver, and you work your way up through the ranks. So that's
already set for the maintenance of wayside. The locomotive engineers is a little bit different, but
you're right. We don't have them right off the street.
And that was the point of putting the presentation together, that we were a bus company turned
to light rail. Now we're a light rail/bus company going to go to commuter rail. So we're looking
back at what worked, what works across the industry, and looking for opportunities out there.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. And that does raise a question in
my own mind that perhaps General Manager Genova might be able to address after we go
through the other speakers. Because I know that, for example, Community College of Denver
and other institutions of higher education have asked us to collaborate with them in terms of
putting together programs where they could create an academic line for students in Community
College, who would then be 21 years of age, and could qualify as locomotive operators.
So it's something we're addressing. And I'll ask Mr. Genova to comment on that in a minute,
after I recognize our distinguished Director, Miss Peggy Catlin. Director Catlin, the floor is
yours.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. To follow up on Director Williams' comments, with
respect to the additional FTE that you're hiring, how does that mirror with the Denver Transit
Partners operation, and how many employees they had for the University of Colorado A Line
and what their training entailed? I just was wondering for comparative purposes how.
DAVE JENSEN: So correct me if I misunderstand the question. If I understand what you're
asking me, we are actually going to be using the training curriculum that they have. We need to
make sure that we mirror them as much as we do, because of the interface that we have. And so
that's why we've adopted or are going to be adopting the training curriculum that they have, with
the rules and the policies and procedures that they have. It'll be very closely knit.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, the curriculum-- are you going to be using some of their trainers to
train the trainers?

DAVE JENSEN: We haven't gone that far yet. But we don't anticipate doing that. We anticipate
having our own trainers, bringing some trainers in-house, getting them trained using experts in
the field, and then-PEGGY CATLIN: Just, but I was also wondering about the size. The 120, 115 FTE, with respect
to the size of the folks on the-DAVE JENSEN: The actual numbers and how that compares to DTP? I don't have that
information with me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is the order of magnitude similar?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So real quick, operators are about the same. So we've got 28
operators and 28 TSOs. The overhead for dispatching, pretty much the same, office staff pretty
much the same.
The maintenance of way, we are a little bit heavier. One of the things that we are doing, we've
created a new class, basically a laborer. And that person will be rules-qualified, that can jump out
and do flagging at crossings, if we ever have any problems.
Also, we've got to step up, and have people available for the rescue locomotive, which is not part
of it. So as far as order of magnitude, I think we're pretty darn close. There may be a few. And of
course, there are some redundancies.
If we went 100% with DTP, we wouldn't have to have a deputy AGM on the Commuter Rail.
They've already got a Chief Operating Officer or General Manager. So there's a lot of jobs that
will be duplicated. But when we looked at the entire system, and evaluated the pros and cons, it
made sense at the time for the headcount that you see on the table.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And thank you for that. I wasn't here in the previous update to the Board,
so I'm trying to climb the learning curve here. If I might ask one more question?
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely, Director.
PEGGY CATLIN: RRP-- just how do they stand with regard to meeting or exceeding their DBE
goals on the project? Do you know that?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'm going to throw that to Chuck out there in the audience.
PEGGY CATLIN: At 85%?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: As far as I know, they are meeting their goals.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: But Chuck?

CHUCK CULIG: Yes, they are meeting their goals. Right now, I think that their goal was 22%
or 23%. And they are exceeding that by a couple percentage points. But yeah, they are right there
where they're supposed to be, and exceeding the goal.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Pointed and percipient questions, Director Catlin. We
appreciate that. Director Sisk, Mr. Chairman, you are recognized.
CHUCK SISK: Chair Tisdale and everyone, Director Catlin touched on a couple of things that I
wanted to at least acknowledge. But one of the things in terms of a higher level, that is, what was
our anticipated budget for the N Line? And where are we now in terms of the additional moneys,
I'm assuming, that it's going to take for us to get to the point that-- to get to 124? So am I clear
enough with the question?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: You're asking, what was the original budget?
CHUCK SISK: That's right, how much was the original budget.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And what is the budget right now. And with RRP's portion and the
overall project budget, I'm going to rely on Chuck one more time, but I think it's like 380, and
now we're at 430.
DOUG TISDALE: And Chuck, as you come up, if you could please, just for the sake of the
record, identify yourself so that we have a good record for the public.
CHUCK CULIG: Yes. I'm Chuck Culig, RTD Project Manager for the North Metro Rail Line.
And you guys have put me on the spot, because off the top my head, I don't know all the total
budget. But I know our original RRP budget was about 343, and we're up to about $414 million,
is I think right where we're at with them.
And I don't remember the total. I think it was just under $700 million for the total project budget,
including vehicles, right of way, staff time, environmental process, all the things all in. And so I
think it's just underneath $700 million.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll provide the detail for you.
CHUCK SISK: Would you please.
DAVE GENOVA: For the Board.
CHUCK SISK: And Chair Tisdale, if I could have one more bite at the apple-DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir.

CHUCK SISK: And that is this-- when we're talking about the expenses, the additional, Director
Williams did a calculation. And she said it was an additional 24.335% additional. So when we're
talking about the additional expenses, are those coming from the unbuilt corridors?
Where are we getting those moneys? Are they coming from the base? Are they coming from the
FasTracks?
And that's a question going forward that I think needs to be asked. And I appreciate that that's
something that we need to ensure the fact that the N corridor, the N Line is built and built
properly. But on the other hand, I think we have to recognize that those moneys are coming from
some other project for which they could otherwise be spent.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: You're absolutely correct on that. So for every time we've had to
increase the budget, it either comes out the FasTracks Management Reserve or the FasTracks
Program. If we spend money on this corridor, that's less money to spend on the other corridors.
So that's why we've had the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) over the last several years. We
bring with it changes associated with the projects, and float it up through the Board. But it is not
free money.
And it is not coming from the base system. It's coming from the FasTracks 4/10 of a cent. And
that's what's being used to fund any changes to this project, or any other projects we've had in the
past.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you very much, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I would like to turn to General Manager
Genova now. Because first, he may have some further comments relative to the observation that
I made concerning the educational pipeline, where we're trying to collaborate with institutions,
such as Community College of Denver, to create talent to fill that pipeline for the jobs that we
need.
And then secondly, if you can offer some observations in general, without the specifics at this
point, because we don't want to turn this into a pop quiz, but some specific observations in
general relative to the questions that Chair Sisk had raised. So Mr. Genova, you are recognized,
sir.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, we continue to look for opportunities to work
with community college networks and others that can help us fill positions or train for future
positions. So we'll continue to work those opportunities, and look for those opportunities,
predominantly through the Workforce Iniative Now (WIN) Program, but also through our
operations groups as well. So we will keep those doors open, and continue to work that. I don't
really have any, as far as some of the other questions, I'm assuming Director Sisk, that most of
your questions were around the capital budgets and estimates, so I just wanted to clarify that. But
I don't think I have anything else, really, to add.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much, General Manager. We appreciate that. Are
there any other Directors who have any questions, comments, issues associated with these status
update on N Line operations and maintenance? That said-JUDY LUBOW: Hello.
DOUG TISDALE: I apologize. I absolutely forgot to say, and would any dog sitters who are
happening to listen in care to ask any questions or provide observations? Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Why, yes. You must have been talking about me. Thank you. And I wanted to
thank staff for a very good presentation.
I had a couple of questions. And one was, I think in relation to what Dave just said, that the
increase in cost was not just capital, though I think it was also O and M. Is isn't that accurate, that
it's costing more than originally thought, not just the N Line, but just generally?
DOUG TISDALE: And I think Mr. Stopplecamp will address that.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, this is Henry Stopplecamp again. The capital cost has gone up
on the corridors-- little things like positive train control, second person crews that were not
anticipated upfront. So we are augmenting our original budget.
And that's one reason the Board asked us to look at looking at either a third party, Denver Transit
Partners, or operating it ourselves. So the budget is higher than it was predicted back in 2004. A
lot of that's based on lessons learned.
And also, we're doing some unique things out here on this corridor. One thing, we're using a
rescue locomotive that was never anticipated. So we have looked at it. We've put a competitive
bid together or cost estimate, and looked at the functions and the scope.
And yes, it has grown a little bit. But by RTD standing it up themselves, we do save quite a bit.
And the risk factors and contingency that if it's not spent on the corridor goes back to the
FasTracks budget for O and M for other corridors, versus giving that out to a third party or
Denver Transit Partners.
So we have looked at it. We've looked at ways to keep it down as low as possible, while
maintaining the service to the community, and putting in the redundancy, i.e., the rescue
locomotive. That would've been one area to save quite a bit of money on by not doing it. But we
believe that that is a benefit to the community to have that available. So yes, it has gone up. And
Director Lubow, you're absolutely right that the increase is on the O and M and also on the
capital side.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lubow, anything further you would wish to add or ask at this time?
DAVE GENOVA: I think we lost connection.

DAVE JENSEN: Yeah, I thought I heard two beeps.
DOUG TISDALE: I will take the silence as indicating that there is nothing further to add. I
would point out, just as a footnote to the comments by Mr. Stopplecamp, if you look at your
packet Page 13, Page 11 of the presentation, some of the observations relative to the
considerations by this Board previously relative to the cost savings that could be achieved by
having RTD run the system itself, those considerations, the dates, and some of the particular
discussions are summarized there. Director Lubow, I may have heard a beep on the phone, so I'm
not sure. If you have something further, this is your opportunity. And we would recognize you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. One other question, and I know we talked about this before, but I
don't remember the answer. What are we doing on the other corridors for the rescue locomotive?
We don't have one, but we must be doing something else.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So on the existing corridors, that gets down to the means and method
of Denver Transit Partners. There is not a rescue locomotive that can run without power to
rescue a stranded train. If a train is stranded and they have power, they can use an existing
locomotive or EMU, and couple up with it, and then pull it out.
But if you have no power in the area, there is no way to rescue the locomotive at this time
without creating the source of power. So either the catenary is down, or a substation is turned off,
or whatever. But we have to reenergize the line, and get power to the system so another
locomotive can pick it up.
That's kind of why we've had to have some evacuations of the equipment on the line, with the
passengers getting out, also on the structures. So that's one area that we do not want to repeat.
And that's why we do have the rescue locomotive.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Anything further?
JUDY LUBOW: That's it for me. No.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. It begs the question, Mr. Stopplecamp, if I may,
speaking to the use of a rescue locomotive when the line itself has lost power and the rescue
locomotive has its own independent source of power, is that rescue locomotive, even though it's
not the obligation of RTD to do that pursuant to our contract with DTP, is it not, however,
available so that it could be deployed on one of the Eagle lines should the need arise?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, the challenge you have with the rescue locomotive, 40 miles
an hour maximum speed, but getting to the location. So that's one reason that we are siting our
rescue locomotive and our facility as close as we can to the Skyway Bridge. We feel that's the
area that has the biggest risk.

So if we were doing the bridge over I-70, the single track, you'd have to take the locomotive
down the North Metro Corridor, across the Skyway Bridge, into Denver Union Station, turn it
around, go back out on the A Line, get out to the bridge at I-70. And then you could hook it up.
But in the meantime, you had to weave in and out of all the parked trains that are out there. So
you don't have a dedicated clear shot.
So our goal is to have hooked up and off the structure within 30 minutes. And to get it out on,
say I-70, or even get out even further to Pena, you're looking at an hour plus. And that does not
make sense.
Now, one of the things that we are doing with the bid package for the rescue locomotive, we
have asked them to price out options. So if Denver Transit Partners decide they would like to go
this way, we will have a potential solution. But that is up to Denver Transit Partners to make a
decision whether or not they would like to buy a locomotive, maintain it, and have it parked
someplace for their use.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And all that having been said, I take it the answer to my question
is yes. But it's just that, because of those various factors and conditions, it would be cumbersome
and not necessarily ideal. But depending upon the circumstances, nonetheless, it could be
deployed.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Solano, you are recognized, sir.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair. We discussed earlier that we're not certain who's going to
operate the North Metro. When well we know? You said it's either going to be DTP or RTD.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, RTD is standing up. That was a decision we made last year. The
slides that were shown were history, showing the process we got to decision for RTD to operate
the system.
PAUL SOLANO: OK, thank you. I stand clarified. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no, there's a lot of information in here, and particularly-- and by the
way, I should note, thank you, number one, for not reading all the slides, number two, for
providing the detail. There is some excellent history that is in here. And it's something that I
know we will continue to refer to going forward, as we await further updates from the staff and
senior leadership concerning the N Line. Director, Broom, one more bite.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. When I was reading through this a couple of days ago, it
talked about a couple of elections that were held. One approved by the voters was 5/10 of a cent,
and the other one for FasTracks, of course, was 4/10 of a cent. Where did the other 1/10 of a cent
come from?
DAVE GENOVA: That 5/10 might be an error.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, I thought it was an error, and then somebody told me-- and we
got another one later on. So we got a five, we got a one, and we got a 4/10.
BOB BROOM: So there was another election for one.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We summarized the slides. I wanted to get the key points. But yes,
there was another 1/10 added on, but I didn't put that in the slides. It was-BOB BROOM: OK. It just didn't add up to me at the time. And I wondered if maybe the five
should have been six.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, originally, it was half a cent.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And I mean, if people would like some more detail on the history, I
mean, most of these slides have been basically culled out of other slides that we've used in the
past. And we just try to keep enough showing the history.
DOUG TISDALE: So for the sake of the record, we had a 0.5 plus 0.1 plus 0.4 for the total of 1
that we currently receive, of which 0.4 is dedicated to FasTracks. I'll take the silence as assent.
Thank you very much. All right. Director Lubow, based upon that, any further comments,
questions?
JUDY LUBOW: No. Thank you, though.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And gentlemen, any last thoughts, observations before
we conclude our discussion on the status update?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'd just like to throw one thing out there. The RTD staff does
appreciate the Board's support on this. We believe that we can come up with a state-of-the-art
system without breaking the bank, but also more importantly, provide our customers the care that
they need and the service that they're expecting.
So it has been a challenge to get the project completed. But we are picking up speed as we go
forward. And the approval this month to help move the project along with RRP was greatly
appreciated.
And we have had some really good meetings with their senior leadership and their staff. And
we've got the message out there. And it appears that everybody is taking it to heart and moving
forward. So that is definitely a plus.

And they've reiterated to their entire team that we are all together to make this happen. And the
operations is just one more piece of it. So on behalf of the staff and of those who are bringing on,
I want to thank the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. [INAUDIBLE], yes, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: Excuse me for almost interrupting. But if I were going to add one more thing,
it would be that it is our desire to communicate well with the Board. And so as things progress,
we would like to continue our communication with you, so that you're up to date, and you know
what's happening, and we can answer your questions about what's going on moving forward.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate that. And we welcome that. And I speak for the entire Board
when I make that observation.
And I will say for any representatives of RRP who may be present, Ms. McKillop and I signed a
couple of very large checks today to assist and facilitate in the process of this all moving
forward. So we appreciate that. We thus conclude our discussion on the N Line operations and
maintenance status update.
Our next topic for this study session is the Mobility Choice Blueprint. And speaking on the
Mobility Choice Blueprint-- ah, there you are. please, if you'd go ahead and give us your
observations now.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, yes, General Manager, yes, please.
DAVE GENOVA: I'm going to open up with some remarks. And then Brian will dive into some
of the detail that we want to present to the Board tonight. So just a little bit of background on
how we got to here-- as the Board recalls, we are one of four main stakeholders, RTD, CDOT,
DRCOG, and then private sector through the Denver Metro Chamber, that have joined in the
Mobility Choice Blueprint.
We are rapidly approaching the end of the Blueprint's work that has been done largely by HDR,
which is the consulting firm that was selected by the Mobility Choice Board of Directors to do
the work. There was a high degree of public engagement involved throughout the process. And
we are now at a point in time where HDR has presented to the Mobility Choice Board.
A couple weeks ago on October 16, we had a workshop reviewing all of the elements that HDR
was bringing forward. And the Mobility Choice Board decided which one of those elements
would go into the Blueprint, and which ones would not. The workshop was really, I think, really
effective. Lots of great discussion at the workshop.
So in your packet tonight, there is a memo that Brian prepared that kind of summarizes the
information in your packet. It talks about how some of the action items in the Blueprint link

directly to the Board-adopted 2019 Strategic Priority of Future Transportation, Means and
Methods. And Brian has spelled that out.
A couple of things I'll just note about the conversation we had about the workshop-- so these
tactical actions, we had quite a bit of discussion about those. And by the way, this is one of two
more opportunities the Board will have to review the information that's going to go into the
Blueprint. So you have this information in the packet this week.
You have some time to review this, ponder it. If there's questions and input that comes up after
tonight, you can get those questions and input over to Brian, and we'll make sure that we capture
that. And then I believe it's going to be December, Brian, first part of December, December 4,
we'll come back. We should have the draft Blueprint document available for the Board to review.
And then that'll be our last opportunity to review the Blueprint before it goes final.
So a couple of things that I'll touch on is that the tactical actions have a column that talks about
the initiator. And we had quite a bit of discussion. This is just really the first attempt at which
agency or combination of agencies might be the best agency or agencies to kind of lead that
action out at a future date.
But we don't want-- those really aren't written in stone. So we don't want to generate a lot of
concern, like if RTD's listed for one that maybe we shouldn't be. But if we're not listed on
another one that we think we should be, we have opportunity to make those comments.
We also talked a bit about how the Blueprint will be governed in the future. Because the
Mobility Choice effort, in effect, will, as an organization, essentially kind of fades away. So we
talked quite a bit about that at the Board meeting.
And there will probably be some suggestions in the draft Blueprint about at least one, or two, or
maybe three types of different kinds of organizations that can then maybe pick this up. I think
any one of them that would come up, all of the major players involved, the stakeholders that I
previously mentioned, we would all be involved to some degree in terms of that. So I think with
that, I will turn it over to Brian, and let him kind of cover some of the things that I haven't, and
get into some questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Welch. Mr. Welch, you are recognized. Thank you very much for being
here. And as our Senior Manager for Planning Tactical Services, give us some tactical thoughts
on this Mobility Choice Blueprint.
BRIAN WELCH: Well, good evening, Chair and members of the Board. What we wanted to
give you an opportunity in this study session is to take a look, in particular just to amplify what
General Manager Genova indicated, we have identified, preliminarily, a subset of actions,
tactical actions. And they're in red in your Board memo-- that we believe RTD would either
consider to be a priority, amongst dozens of these types of tactical actions, or more importantly,
that we think preliminarily that we might want to be an initiator-- that is, we see them, within our
region, that we would be the likely entity that would be responsible to champion this.

And we don't need to go-- we don't have a presentation tonight. We're not going to walk through
all of them or anything like that. But we wanted to take this initial opportunity just to see, do the
Board members have any initial questions, any agreement or otherwise, with what we've
identified, at least preliminarily amongst these ones that we've highlighted for you in red? And if
so, we have this opportunity, like I said, to one, answer any questions, but we also will have
additional time for you to send me comments, and I can respond.
But everything we hear tonight, we will, of course, carry forward to the Project Management
Team to ensure that they reflect the thoughts of the Board at this point. Then you'll get to see
another version later, before it becomes final. But like I say, amongst all of them out there, we
did want to zero in on these, and see what kind of questions or comments you might have at this
point.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me point out for the benefit of the Board, if you look at Page 37 of
your packet, packet Page 37, that's where these draft tactical actions are set forth. And as Brian
Welsh has indicated to us, the items in red are ones that RTD has indicated, through Brian's
review and Dave's review, would be of particular interest and centrality to RTD. So I referenced
that for your information. It continues on past Page 37, but that's where it commences. But at this
time, let me recognize Director Walker.
DIRECTOR WALKER: I wasn't expecting to be first. Thank you. One of the ones that I noticed
were not identified specifically is F21, Curbside Management. The bus drivers that I speak with,
one of the biggest-- one of the several things that they observe is that the pickup and drop-off of
passengers, a lot of them use our spaces, because they're reserved for us-- and our passengers, I
should say. But they are convenient, especially downtown, where space is at a premium.
I think that we should, if not lead that discussion, because we're one of the most active users of
Curbside consistently, that we should definitely be an additional participant. So I was at RailVolution last week, and AFTA Annual the week before in Vancouver last year. And this is
getting a lot of airplay or airtime. People are talking about it a lot, integrating a lot of services
into one.
I've talked to some guy who has-- he works for a company. I think it's a small startup, but every
possible mode, and every agency or entity that provides that mode is in one app now. And his
company integrates all of those. So one click of the button-- the agencies have to sign up. The
companies have to sign up to be part of that. And then the company for whom the guy I talked to
works, they take a cut.
But everything-- one thumb click or one tap, you can get to wherever you want to go by
whatever mode you want to go, through this app. I think I've mentioned this before, but Ford is
eventually going to shed all of its passenger cars, except for the Mustang, and I think there's one
other car, like not Escort, the Escape or something like that, one of the smaller cars. Everything
else will be trucks.
And it owns a logistics company, TransLoc and Chariot. Ford, that individual passenger car
company is now getting into the mobility business. So one of the things I noticed from these

conversations I've had, these conferences is that it matters less and less who provides the ride, as
long as the ride is provided as efficiently and quickly as possible.
Because I think what I'm sensing is that the entities and agencies are starting to see that we all
have to work together. Because we all share the same space and the public right of way, and in
the financial world, also, since time is money. But anyway, I like this effort.
I'll have to go through it a lot more than what I've had time to yet. But I think this is what-- this is
exactly what I'm hearing everywhere else in the conversations I'm having, with folks from all
over the country. So thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mr. Welsh, any thoughts or observations you
want to share on that before I go to Director Mihalik?
BRIAN WELSH: I would concur that it would be logical for RTD to be identified as at least an
additional participant with Curbside. You're right. It's a big issue for us, and it will be even a
bigger issue in the future.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Mihalik, you are recognized, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Welsh, can you speak to the idea of privacy,
and how that is factored into-- because I'm reading through these, and it's talking about various
standards and software development. And I don't see privacy mentioned at all.
And I know Toronto made the news recently because they're doing a Smart City effort. They
actually had a privacy consultant on the staff. And the woman, I don't recall her name, but had to
resign recently, because they were not implementing sufficient privacy controls. Yeah, if you
could just mean talk to that for a little bit.
BRIAN WELSH: That's a good point. And I think what we should make sure is that any tactical
action that addresses this issue of data, that we should insert language ensuring the privacy of all
users, and that any data be properly anonymized for any purpose.
Yeah, definitely. We need to carry that forward.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, if I may just add onto that-- so at the workshop-- you bring
forward an excellent point. And I don't think that came up at the workshop, by the way. But there
were some other themes that we said were common throughout. And one of the things we talked
about was accessibility.
And we just said-- and so we had dialogue on that point. We just said for us, it's a given. We
have to consider accessibility.

And other, I would say kind of main general topics, similar, came up. And so we had a good
discussion on a few of those. And we need to make sure this gets addressed. So it's a very good
point, because a lot of these are about data sharing.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. We appreciate that. Chair Sisk, you
are recognized, Sir.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Brian, I've, again, been a supporter of this effort since
its inception. The concern that I have, and that is in terms of going forward-- and I appreciate
that what you're asking is input on specifics here, but a more general question, that is-- when do
you expect, or when is it expected that these Blueprints will actually be adopted by the four
groups?
BRIAN WELSH: So the Blueprint itself, Director Sisk, the Blueprint will be accepted by the
Mobility Choice Board of Directors. So that's the terminology that we're using. And that should
be coming, probably won't be December. It'll likely be January, maybe early February, just
depending on the timing of getting the draft done, and then getting that document ready for its
final group. So that's when we anticipate that the Blueprint will be final, will be available for
everyone's use and consideration.
CHUCK SISK: So if I may, Chair Tisdale, that really then helps me with a bifurcated question.
And that is, that since it won't be adopted, there's a rumor that there's going to be a new
Governor in the State of Colorado. And again-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
That means, then, that-- and I think we can all speculate who's that's going to be, so that being
said, is that going to-- again, speculation-- how is that going to impact the choices that we're
making here? Because certainly the new Governor will want to have-- and I guess we can say
"his" choice for CDOT Director. And I don't think Miss Catlin remembers this, but there have
been changes in CDOT Directors over the years.
[LAUGHTER]
And even some changes in political philosophies that have gone from-- mightily-- from the
middle to the top, and down to the bottom. But anyway, my point is that it seems to me that what
we're trying to do is have a fluid document that I understand is going to be outside political
control. Well, it's going to have political control. So what are we doing, and what is Mobility
Choice doing, to bring in the Governor, the new elected Governor, who'll be elected in a week
from today, to ensure the fact that we have this continuity, and that we're not talking-- this Board
isn't talking about it a year from now?
DAVE GENOVA: A very, very good point. I would say that myself and the current CDOT
Executive Director and the DRCOG Executive Director have had this conversation a number of
times. We're currently working on, just between the three agencies, just trying to put together
some kind of an MOU that is even a little bit broader than a Mobility Choice Blueprint, but just

kind of documents the current things that we're working on, and that we want to take forward. Of
course, everything in the Blueprint is subject to-- one of the founding principles of the Blueprint
is it's a non-binding document.
CHUCK SISK: Right.
DAVE GENOVA: So even though there's things in the Blueprint, it's really going to be up to the
governing bodies of the agencies to advance various tactical actions. And I believe that will be
done more in a collaborative manner between the primary three agencies, and then private sector
involvement. But I think that any one of these is going to require the governing bodies of the
organizations to take action on any one of these particular actions, as we do with many things.
And some of them, as you read through, are already underway. We're doing various things that
already appearing in the Blueprint, as well. But we all recognize that, and I would say as a
Board, we really didn't have that conversation at the workshop.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Sisk. Director Catlin, it's a privilege to
recognize you again.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. A couple of points that Director Walker made-- I, too, attended
the Rail-Volution Conference. And this is very much in the forefront of people's minds across
the country. So I'm glad to see that we're doing this, although I still am concerned about
something I mentioned several months ago.
And that is that our transportation agency, E-470 and Northwest Parkway are not at the table.
And they have quite a bit of technology and mobility options that they could bring to the table as
well. So I just am a little bit concerned about that.
And then my third point is that there's discussion in here about autonomous and connected
vehicle usage. And I was hearing discussions back in Pittsburgh about autonomous buses, and
autonomous rail vehicles, too. So I don't know if we want to maybe add that to the emphasis.
Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: I think the notion when we talk about autonomous vehicles here is it's broad
and it can encompass all those categories.
Yeah, I know they weren't specifically spelled out. I agree.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Catlin? Thank you very much. Director Broom,
you're recognized, Sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The General Manager referred to this document as
nonbinding. I hope this isn't something, the Blueprint is just going to go on the shelf, and that
there's some provision that will be updated every three years or something, or that there'll be

some type of intergovernmental agreement where it'll be maintained and communicated as time
goes on. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I think we all share in the observation that we want to see our money that we
spent on this project would be put to use in the future. And that's certainly something that is a
good end. Director Solano, it's a distinct privilege to recognize you again, sir.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm just curious-- Transportation Transformation
we just had a couple of months ago. How does that work in coordination with the Blueprint?
BRIAN WELSH: We view this as one element of the larger theme at the district right now, of
the Transportation Transformation. So in other words, as we move forward into next year, we
will be following up on many of these types of tactical actions General Manager Genova already
mentioned. Some of them are already underway that we would all put under that sort of heading.
What we would anticipate, for example, one example would be you've heard about the
comprehensive plan that we are looking at starting next year. We would anticipate that key
tactical actions that are agreed upon by the Board for inclusion in the Mobility Choice Blueprint
would find their way, one way or the other, either through the planning process with the Board
considering the comprehensive plan, or other Board actions to implement some of these things.
Say, for example, a pilot-- there's identification of a handful of pilots in here, some of which
RTD would be the initiator. So that would be a direct tie to the T2, Transportation
Transformation focus coming up next year. So we see them very tightly linked, and under the
general theme, for sure.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: I do.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: I just hope that the tax increase, whether it be 109 or 110, will help
you out, will help us with how to solve that.
DOUG TISDALE: And of course, we make no observations, such as Yes on 110, whether that
would be appropriate for us. So we exclude any such comments specifically. Any further
comments from you, Mr. Welsh, at this time, in light of the questions?
BRIAN WELSH: What I will do to follow up-[PHONE SQUEAK]

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I meant, of course, after I hear from Director Lubow. Then I
would like to hear any closing thoughts from Director Welsh, because I did want to save the best
for last. Director Lubow? Press the other button.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. This process is very impressive. And I'm delighted that we're using
it. However, it's kind of amorphous.
I mean, it's a bunch of items, and we're not really being told, like there are five items that do this
and there are four items that do such and such. And we're just kind of-- I'm not sure where it's
actually going to be going. And that that's something that does concern me.
There's a whole bunch of items here, and we don't know that x, y, and z have the priority. We
don't know if any of them will be done. I mean, because it's totally non-binding. And to me, that
makes this a kind of putty-like document.
And it concerns me in that regard, because I don't want somebody coming back a year from now,
and saying, but you agreed to that. But no, that was one of 30, and nobody said that was going to
be a priority. That amorphousness concerns me. So I'm not sure how that can be addressed.
The other thing that very much concerns me is that I really like a lot of these ideas, but I want to
make sure that nobody forgets the unfinished corridors, of FasTrack. And because these things
will cost money. And money is always the thing that we don't have enough of.
And I just want to make sure that if the Board agrees to this thing, this amorphous thing, that
that's not used to go ahead of finishing the Unfunded Corridors. That's a real issue to me. And I
don't know if anybody's thought about that, and how they want to deal with that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director I think those are very apt observations. Let me turn to
General Manager Genova in the first instance to respond.
DAVE GENOVA Thank you, Mr. Chair. A couple of responses, and one that we included in the
memo but we didn't cover verbally is the letter designation and the color coding on these items.
So you'll notice that some of them have an F letter designation, and a number and some have a B
letter designation and a number? The F items are those items that we feel are either-- well, are
fairly doable today, or in the near to short term. And then the B items are what we call "bold"
items. And those, they're called "bold," because they're very bold and big ideas that are going to
take considerable more effort, time, collaboration, coordination than some of the other items.
But in regards to priority, we also did list a few of them that match right up with, that are good
candidates that fit right within our strategic priority for next year, on identifying or meeting
future needs and methods under transportation. And so while these items appear in the Blueprint,
it will really be up to the governing body, our Board of Directors as we're working through our
priority setting as an agency. As far as if the items already fit or exist in kind of what we're
already doing in terms of our strategic goals and priorities, we can move on those.

But if there's some that there's not a good fit, we'll come back to the Board, and ask the Board's
opinion about whether those should be prioritized or not. So I think the Board will have good
opportunity to work through some priority setting, whether it's this document or other items. And
the point on FasTracks is well taken, so thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you. One additional point.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: And that is that Mobility Choice is just going to ride off into the sunset, in a
way after, this study is over. But there will be, I imagine, a couple of these continuing
coordinating committees. And I just want to make sure that they are created in such a way that
the governing boards of the organizations have a lot of input into what they do.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me recognize General Manager Genova for the first observation on
that. Then I'll footnote.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And we actually did. I appreciate that insight. And we
actually did have a pretty good conversation around future governance, and it being really the
three, particularly when we talk about the three government agencies involved, and how that
might work with our different governing bodies. So there was a pretty good discussion on that,
and I think pretty good agreement on how that might look going forward.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so it will be thought through.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, and-JUDY LUBOW: Because I think of it as important.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, and I believe there'll be some suggestions around it in the Blueprint draft
that we'll see. So we'll have an opportunity to provide additional comments to that, if we would
like. But I think that we've got really good consensus, at least between the major players sitting
around the Mobility Choice Board table, and especially amongst the three agencies.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Lubow, let me just footnote that by noting that the product may
come to an end, that is, a report will be filed, what is important is that the process that has been
engendered by the creation of this product will not come to an end the unparalleled,
unprecedented cooperation and collaboration between and among CDOT, DRCOG, RTD and the
business community in the form of the Chamber is something that serves as a model going
forward. That will never end. And that is something that was born of this process. Director
Walker, you are recognized, Sir
DIRECTOR WALKER: Thanks. I'm going to hate-- I kind of hate to belabor it, but this is a
really interesting topic. And I figure it deserves a little more discussion, maybe just a little more.

But anyway, part of what I think makes this so exciting is that we don't know exactly what will
come out.
For instance, Lyft is a vastly different company now than when it started about 10 years ago. So
is Uber. It's recently acquired or it's testing an on-demand labor force. So it's still part of the
transportation system, but it's expanded its mission.
And I think that the benefit of these is to build efficiencies or find efficiencies, which would save
money, time, so that hopefully, some of that money, on our part, at least, efficiencies for
Curbside Management, maybe, that would come out of that, could be used for funding or
towards some part of Unfunded Corridors.
[BEEP BEEP]
So-- anyway, so I appreciate Director Lubow's comments. And I hope that those add something
to the thought. Thanks. That's it. I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Walker. I appreciate that. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I also have been a proponent of this from the get-go. And what I think we
need to be aware of is that some of this stuff is going on now. If you look at B5, which is actually
colored as a future idea, DRCOG Funding for Mobility Technology Innovation Fund. DRCOG is
working right now on a mobility hub-[BEEP]
--that would allow all of the providers, including RTD's Access-a-Ride, to share rides. They
could pick up passengers through a mobility hub, and essentially double their effectiveness by
not having to have one-way empty rides. So that is going on today.
And so I'm sure DRCOG is happy to set money aside to fund that one some more, since it's their
project. But as Director Walker was saying, there's also Uber is partnering with DaVita, whose
corporate headquarters is here, to do an Uber Health Project, where DaVita will issue vouchers,
and Uber will pick up and deliver their passengers. So a lot of stuff that you would think is in the
future is actually going on today.
And the point that we need to look back on is, who knew 10 years ago that every fourth grader
would have a smartphone? The way that mobility technology took off in terms of telephony is
directly related to how mobility technology is taking off today. And we are all fortunate to be a
part of that.
We're very fortunate to be the backbone, that we will always be the backbone. But it's nice to see
that we are involved in planning for all of the things that connect to us. And I'd like to thank
RTD staff for the work they've done being a part of that.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. We appreciate that. Mr. Welsh, before I return
to you to see if you have any last comments, I will point out that staff advised me that the
over/under for tonight's meeting was 90 minutes. I had the under. So we're hoping you have
some brief comments only.
BRIAN WELSH: Just very briefly, in terms of Director Lubow's question, this seems a little-you're seeing these pieces and parts. I think the future versions of this, it'll crystallize more how
our original approach and our original objective, which was to join together CDOT, RTD and
DRCOG with the private sector, to ensure that we have a purposeful, connected, coordinated
approach to making sound, sensible, sustainable investments in technology will take place,
which we do believe would not have happened, at least in the manner that we believe it can go
forward without this project. And I do think that that will emerge a little bit better when you see
the tactical actions tied back into where we started, the themes that we started with the outcomes
that we all desire.
And then just in terms of what I'll do now, these are excellent insights. Carla Perez from the
HDR Team has been listening, and taking good notes, as well. I will provide the Board with the
notes I took, so you'll know which of your comments are going to be reflected in the next version
for sure. And then when we come back in December, you'll get to see this further evolved.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. Thank you very much. We appreciate all your hard work, Brian
Welch, and that of everyone on staff, and Mr. Genova being on the Board of Mobility Choice as
well, particularly for your excellent work in shepherding that process. Any further discussion on
Mobility Choice Blueprint? Hearing none, we have other matters at this point. Any other matters
that relate to the subjects that we raised tonight in our study session? Mr. chairman Sisk.
CHUCK SISK: Let's get to the end of it. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just want to recognize that
we have [INAUDIBLE] Directors [INAUDIBLE] here tonight. Certainly wish them well. Next
Tuesday and again, we've all been in elections. Thank you very much for even offering your
services to help in everything. And as I say, wish you well Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And we have other candidates present, as well. So we appreciate their
participation, and taking time to study the workings of the Board. So that's something that we
very much acknowledge and appreciate.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Any further business to come before the Board in this study session at this
time?
UNKNOWN SPEAKER: Adjourn.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing none, ladies and gentlemen, we stand adjourned.
[GAVEL BANG]

UNKNOWN SPEAKER: Great. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Bye, Judy.
JUDY LUBOW: Bye-bye.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

