Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

October 12, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 11, 2011 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker.
Chair Kemp left the meeting early.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Chuck Culig, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jeanette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, James Smith, Jim Starling, Walt
Stringer, Paulette Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington and Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, Howard Humle, Galina Leiphart, Andrew Murray –
Metro State, Bill Mosher – DUSPA, Sarah O’Brien – Mullen High
School, Terra Rose Puncerelli – Mullen High School, Nikki Ricks –
Ricks Group.
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.
Committee Chair Cohen added that a colleague should be participating
via conference call, but no one was on the line when the phone was
taken off of mute. Committee Chair Cohen added that he would check
the line later in the meeting to see if anyone had joined in.

I.

CAC Update
Ken Burns noted that he wanted to give a brief update regarding the recent quarterly
outreach meeting. Attendance was extremely high, and there were very interesting
comments that came from this meeting. Citizens want to be involved as the project
is going on, they want more comments/input regarding property acquisition, they

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 2
commented on contract management, and a number of comments were municipal
issues not RTD issues, but the public has difficulty distinguishing that. Based on
these comments, there is opportunity to create some type of process to involve
communities with one another where residential infrastructure is affected.
Chair Kemp gave his thanks to Mr. Burns and indicated that it is very important that
the Board receives these updates. The CAC shows a real concern for the
community.
Director Anderson added that when there is construction disruption of business and
residential areas it is really tough. She is looking forward to the suggestions of the
CAC in her community.
Director Malpiede wanted to congratulate Mr. Burns for taking CAC to a whole new
level and for all of the community outreach efforts undertaken recently by the CAC.
Director Daly noted that he was under the impression that there were vacancies on
the committee and asked how many there were. Ken Burns noted that at the
moment, there was one vacancy and Scott Reed added that there will be two more
vacancies soon.
Committee Chair Cohen asked if an example of municipal issues could be given.
Director James added that from time to time, property owners complain about
activity that takes place at bus stops, either perceive or actual criminal activity. We
have limited ability to deal with that and the concerns should be forwarded to the
local municipalities.
Chair Kemp indicated that he would be leaving the meeting early to attend a 7:00
p.m. service change meeting in Brighton.
II.

Recommended Action


FasTracks Computer Support Contract

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award both option years (years 4 and 5) for IT desktop support
services (Contract # 10DY001) to Technology Integration Group (TIG). This
contract is being brought to the Board because this is a personal services contract
per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
Del Walker explained that we have been under contract for the past 3 years and for
this set up the total cost for the next two years is $153,000. The value is a great
cost since this is a needed function and we are very satisfied with how they have
performed to date.
Director O’Boyle noted that we have a 2 year option listed in the 2012 budget only
and asked if we do not budget for the year the services are provided. Trent Ratcliff
explained that the funding for this in included in the 2012 budget request and the

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 3
contract language is contingent upon that funding request. Del Walker added that
the $153,000 will cover both option years, the 2012 funding/allocation will be half
of that amount and the remainder will be allocated in 2013.
Del Walker further added that we were able to negotiate this contract down about
9% from previous exercises of this contract.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the October 25, 2011
Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed (12) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker)
and
(1)
against
(Deadwyler). Directors Kemp and
Riley were absent from this vote.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.



Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Sheridan Parking
Structure

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Design/Build contract with Swinerton Builders not to
exceed $12,600,000. This contract is for the design and construction of the RTD
FasTracks West Rail Line Sheridan Parking Structure. Funding for this project is
included in the 2011 FasTracks budget for the West Rail Line Parking Garages, and
was provided through the Certificates of Participation (COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$900,059 from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project to the West Rail Line
Parking Garages Project to fund project elements that are not eligible to be funded
through the COP.
Jim Starling explained that this is similar to the presentation last month regarding the
Wadsworth Parking Structure and this garage is just south of the West Rail Line
tracks on the west side of Sheridan.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 4
Del Walker added that we tried to have a more significant SBE portion than we
would normally have, and the SBE goal for this project is 51%.
Director Malpiede noted that she was very pleased and excited to see the 51% SBE
participation goal, but noted a transfer of funds from the Light Rail Maintenance
Facility would be transferred to this project and asked for that to be explained.
Jim Starling indicated that Certificates of Participation (COP) can only be applied to
assets that we own and we will still require another source of funding for assets that
we will not own such as street improvements.
Director Bagley added that the $900,000 is included in the total value of
$12,600,000 and it is not over and above that amount.
Director Deadwyler asked for more information regarding the 51% SBE goal for
better understanding. Del Walker indicated that this is a single contract in which
Swinerton will need to set aside 51% of the work effort for Small Business
Enterprises. Director Deadwyler further inquired as to what is the private drive for
the parking structure. Jim Starling indicated that it is the driveway to get into the
parking garage from 10th.
Director Tobiassen asked if there was a site plan available today and if any
stationary planning has been done for this. Jim Starling noted that the site plan will
be part of the design build contractor’s scope and both Denver and Lakewood have
performed studies on the area. Director Tobiassen asked for copies of each so that
he could review them.
Director James asked that any time there is a site specific approval that a map is
included which shows neighboring properties owned by both public entities and
private owners and how our property might relate to theirs. If we can encourage the
private sector to do development, the location may be better than what it would
otherwise be.
Committee Chair Cohen indicated that he would invite all of his colleagues to visit
the City of Lakewood website which has developed a very comprehensive master
plan that has distinguished the different areas of the west corridor. This is a great
tool to see the corridor and to see what some of the big picture goals are for around
these stations.
Director O’Boyle asked if this contract was the lowest bid. Del Walker indicated that
it was not the lowest bid, but based on best value and we can provide that
information.
Director Bagley inquired if property acquired through a COP is ineligible for Transit
Oriented Development. Marla Lien indicated that there would be private use and or
payment issues, and there could be potential lien/mortgage issues but there is not a
blanket prohibition. Director Bagley added that there is a significant amount of land
that has nothing to do with the structure, so the potential for Transit Oriented
Development on this site is possible.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 5
Director Deadwyler noted that it would be very interesting to see what the lowest
bid was and from whom. Del Walker indicated that the competitive range was
extremely tight and three other bidders were within $200,000 of each other. General
Manager Washington explained that this is a Best Value procurement with two major
components of the evaluation being met and those were technical and price.
Director Daly noted that he did not see a walkway linking the parking garage to the
station. Jim Starling indicated that there would be a parallel connection along
Sheridan.
Director Malpiede noted that this project is in her district and would like to be
included in any discussions regarding Transit Oriented Development in this parking
district.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the October 25, 2011
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

Bagley

seconded

the

The motion passed (12) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker)
and
(1)
against
(Deadwyler). Directors Kemp and
Riley were absent from this vote.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.



Request for Approval of the North Metro Project Utility Relocation
Construction Expenditures

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to (1) execute work orders
under the RTD North Metro Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to
proceed with the design of North Metro Project dry utility relocations in an amount
not to exceed a total RTD financial responsibility of $1,500,000; (2) to delegate
signature authority to execute any such construction work orders to the General
Manager. Funding for this work is included in the 2011 Amended Budget for the
North Metro Project.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 6
Jane Donovan explained that staff is looking for Board permission to authorize work
orders with utility companies, specifically the dry utilities, and most of which will be
relocating at their own expense. We want to be able to do this, and do it quickly so
that we do not hold up any construction process.
Director Tobiassen indicated that the unsolicited proposal was mentioned in this
document and wanted to make sure that the North Metro project does not infringe
on other corridors scheduled first.
General Manager Washington added that we want to manage expectations regarding
the unsolicited proposal.
Director O’Boyle noted that the scope of the project is the North Metro Project, but
this geographic work order goes from DUS to the Coliseum. Jane Donovan explained
that we are proposing to be prepared to sign work orders to get utility design for the
entire corridor if necessary, but now we are only focused on segment 1.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the October 25, 2011
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

James

seconded

the

The motion passed (12) in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker) and (1) against (O’Boyle).
Directors Kemp and Riley were
absent from this vote.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.

III.

Updates
 I-225
Chuck Culig indicated that the ultimate goal is to extend service from Nine Mile to
Peoria/Smith to service the City of Aurora and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Campus.
This expansion will provide a 600 space park-n-ride, and will include a light rail
station and bus plaza at Iliff. We have also worked with CDOT to create an improved
highway section in this area. This line extension should be open by the Summer of
2014.
Director Tobiassen thanked and commended staff for the outstanding outreach
efforts that have taken place with the City of Aurora. Also, Heather Gardens has

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 11, 2011
Page 7
requested a detailed impact briefing to tell them exactly how they are going to be
impacted so they have a very clear picture as to what is going to them in the next
few years.
Director Malpiede asked if we received additional TIGRE III grant, what would be the
plan for those funds. Chuck Culig indicated that our next station is the Florida
Station and our goal would be to get to that area.
Directors Deadwyler and O’Boyle were very thankful that RTD had partnered with
CDOT on this extension.
IV.

Other Matters
Director Anderson noted that Mayor Chuck Sisk is term limited and was given a
great send off at US 36 Commuting Solutions today. Mayor Sisk has been a great
champion for the whole region and has greatly contributed to the FasTracks
program.
Director McMullen added that he wanted to put in his push for the sales tax increase
indicating that we need to get $.04 cents passed on $10.00 to get this done.

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for November
1, 2011 (changed to November 8, 2011).

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
8:00 p.m.

