2024-11-12
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. My name is Doug Tisdale. And we welcome you to this RTD Committee
Meeting. In my capacity as Chair of the RTD Finance and Planning Committee, I now call to order the
Tuesday, November 12, 2024, meeting of that Committee.
Let the record reflect that we are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully
ask everyone who was attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the Committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be, for the time being, held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded for
future reference. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of these meetings, will be
posted as soon as practicable on the RTD's Board website.
Now, during today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided to you.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. Of course, you can also just click on the Closed
Captions button at the bottom of your Zoom screen. In addition, a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page. Our intention is to make this meeting and all of our meetings as
accessible as possible for all of our constituents.
With all that having been said, I would now like to call the roll for the Committee members. Director Bob
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Board First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.

DOUG TISDALE: Committee Vice Chair Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And am Chair Doug Tisdale. And I am present. And so that means that all of the
members of the Finance and Planning Committee are present with us. In addition, for the sake of the
record, I note that we also have Director Julien Bouquet with us this evening. I do not see any other
directors. Am I missing any other directors, Mr. Kroll? Thank you.
JACK KROLL: No, Sir.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, I would now like to open the public comment session, for public comment to be
made by anyone who would like to address this Committee regarding any topic that is listed in the
published meeting agenda for this month or for last month. Now, if you wish to speak, and you have not
already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this comment period, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. If you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email that same email address I just gave
you, which is rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Now, Mr. Board Manager Kroll, are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Tisdale, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this
time, we have one hand raised. And that is from Richard Bamber.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. And please note, ladies and gentlemen, that staff will
unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you're dialed in on your phone, please press star 6 to
toggle your mute settings. And please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being
recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted to the Board Office in
writing. And the comments can be submitted to that same email address, which is rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have up to three
minutes to speak. We've had identified our first speaker as Richard Bamber. If you would, Mr. Bamber,
please state your name for the record, and then you may proceed.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening. It's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit, and thanks for the
opportunity, as ever, to speak, Chair Tisdale. I'd like to speak mainly tonight on some of the budget, some
of our initial findings. We have sent in a lengthy letter with a lot of questions, which we'd appreciate.
response from staff. Always happy to take a call, arrange a meeting, whatever is easiest basically, for
everybody.
That said, I wanted to alert the directors to three main themes that we found so far. About a year ago, I
stood up at the full Board and made references that certain tax returns of mine were longer than the
budget book. The good news is, it's the second edition, 1st of November, 91 pages.

We're going in a trend where we're seeing more data, more information. And that is to be applauded.
We're particularly pleased to see the appendix, where we can see the financial information presented in a
similar manner to the monthly financial statements. So thank you.
That said, with the expenditures, noting from local government budget law, that's DOLA, that
expenditures and revenues generally must be described with explanatory schedules or statements
classifying the expenditures by object and the revenues by source. And that's in the statute. We look at
the way the expenditures are broken down, And yes, you could argue they are object, but not really by
useful objects.
And an example of this is, say, the Rail Operations Department. It's hard to see a breakdown of what's
light rail? What is the N Line commuter rail? And what is the rail transportation, but simply writing a check
to DTO for?
Likewise, in the bus operations, you would expect to see three or four amounts going out to Transdev for
their various different service groups, for fixed route bus service, the likes of air mobility, for FlexRide and
Access-a-Ride, and then four separate things for Access on Demand service. So what we've made the
comment is, it's objectively hard to reconcile a big operations expenditure cost with what the actual bits of
RTD and what they're doing.
And then lastly, we'd still love to see a proper Capital Programs book with the budgeted amounts for each
current and planned capital project appropriate over the years. Last year, Directors were asked, at very
short notice, to approve $152 million line item for the Downtown Light Rail Works. We've now completed
phase one of those works.
So you would expect to see the [? Krische ?] contract, which rebuilt the five at-grade crossings, possibly
invoiced 90%, 90-something percent. And there'll be minus a bit of retainage that will go for an invoice
next year. And then you would see that amount being knocked off the 152 total. We don't see any of that.
We still see that 152 total.
Let's see, those are the main things. I'd like to really end on a much lighter note. I'd like to thank Chair
Tisdale for his excellent chairmanship of this Committee, and thank all Directors who have served in the
past year for finance and planning. So moved.
JACK KROLL: Director Tisdale, you are on mute.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate that. You missed my gracious thanks to
Mr. Bamber for his, as always, interesting and informative comments. Are there any other speakers who
have raised their hand or indicated a desire to speak at this meeting?
JACK KROLL: Director Tisdale, there are no further speakers in the queue.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. And Mr. Executive Manager, were any emailed
comments received for today's meeting? I believe Mr. Bamber mentioned one, but please advise of any
others.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Tisdale. The only emailed comment that we have received is from Greater
Denver Transit that Mr. Bamber referenced in his comments. It contains a number of questions and
remarks related to the 2025 budget.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And we should note, for the sake of the record, that email
comments will be added to the end of the Committee transcript once that's ready, for public transparency.
So with no other participants in the queue and no other emails to be acknowledged, we will now close the
public comment period at this time.
The next item on our agenda is entitled Information From External Entities. There are no external entity
reports that we have to present this evening, so we'll move right on to our next agenda item, which is
recommended actions. There are four recommended actions on the agenda for this November meeting of
the Finance and Planning Committee.
The first action is for the Zero Fares on Transit Equity Day 2025. This is a recommended action for the
Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to implement zero fares
on February 4, 2025, which is Transit Equity day, and to further authorize the annual implementation of a
Zero Fare Day for each Transit Equity day thereafter. May I have a motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, I have Director Ruscha as the movement. And the second is?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
DOUG TISDALE: Guissinger. Thank you very much, Board Second Vice Chair Lynn Guissinger. I would
like to ask Carl Green, Jr. The Director of RTD's Civil Rights Division, and Doug MacLeod, our Chief
Financial Officer, to present this item. I'll let you gentlemen decide who goes first, but the floor is yours.
CARL GREEN JR.: Thank you, Chair Tisdale and members of the Committee. Again, Carl Green, Jr,
Director of the Civil Rights Division. I'll begin and then pause to offer up-- if Mr. MacLeod would like to
offer any additional comments. Tonight, I'll be covering down on Zero Fares for Transit Equity Day.
There's no PowerPoint presentation. And the information presented can be referred to Board packet,
pages 3 through 5.
Transit Equity Day is a national day of action to commemorate the birthday of Rosa Parks, who was born
on February 4, 1913, by declaring that public transit is a civil right. This would not only highlight Mrs.
Parks, who is widely considered the Mother of the Civil Right-- or the Freedom Movement, and the First
Lady of the Civil Rights, but also pay homage to other pioneers, as well as to recognize the present and
future legacies of the Civil Rights and social justice movements, not only in Colorado, but nationally.
And just for further context, Transit Equity Day was first celebrated federally by the US Department of
Transportation in 2021, and gained wider adoption in 2023 by a number of different public transit
agencies in the cities across the nation. The big picture here is, the Board's policy adoption would
promote equity in public transportation, and raise awareness about the critical importance of transit to all
members of our community.
And lastly, I'd like to point out that the financial impact per day is anticipated to be upwards of $265,000
each year. And this figure includes fare revenue replacement using a weekday average calculation, as
well as law enforcement and security, and marketing expenses.
This not only highlights the Board's opportunity to promote equity, but as we think about the bigger picture
of One RTD to celebrate a civil rights pioneer, Rosa Parks. And with that being said, I'll conclude my

remarks, and happy to answer any questions, but also offer up for Mr. MacLeod if you'd like to provide
any additional sentiments.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Green. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Carl, Mr. Green. I appreciate that. The only thing I
would add is to let the Committee know that currently, RTD offers zero fares on New Year's Eve. So New
Year's Eve, 2025, that will be a Zero Fare Day. And I believe that the hours are 7:00 PM to 7:00 AM over
New Year's Eve.
And then the only other Zero Fare Days that are offered on a regular basis will be the actual general
election day, every fourth year, plus the National Vote Early Day. So it's really that one day each year,
and then every fourth year on general election. So this would just be adding simply, one more day.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. At this time, I would like to ask those Directors
who have questions-DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Yes, please. General Manager.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I just want to clarify a statement that Mr. MacLeod made. Actually, zero fares are
held biennially because they include midterm elections. That would be a general election, not every four
years.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. As he was saying that, I was wondering. And I'm so happy that General
Manager, CEO Johnson, you stepped in to correct that so that the record is accurate in that regard.
Thank you.
So now I will ask for those Directors who have questions or who would like to make a comment to raise
your virtual hand, and I will call on you in turn. For directors or staff who are calling in to the meeting on
your phone, if you wish to speak, please, as you know, just press star 9. I will go first to Director Ruscha.
You are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. So I'm in support of this action item. And I'm very pleased staff
brought it forth. Thank you so much. I did have just a question I noted-- noted, excuse me, in the fiscal
note-- that we budgeted extra for security.
And I was wondering if staff could speak to that, just the reason for the potential extra security need, and
also because I don't have the memory of the elephant, if a similar fiscal note was in the previous
recommended action for free fare during election days. Thank you. That's my only question.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And Mr Green, would you like to cover that
one?
CARL GREEN JR.: Yes, Director Tisdale, if I may. Great question, Director Ruscha. As far as the law
enforcement and security, this was also embedded within the general election and the National Vote
Early Day.

And as I spoke with now, one of the co-deputy chairs with Steven Martingano, looking at the anticipated
expenses for security personnel on our services, that was the figure that was provided, and noting that as
we approach 2025 and as we think about the number of personnel that we're, increasing, that is actually
substantially lower than the previous figure, which is utilizing contracted personnel. So that would just be
leveraging TPD sworn officers, as far as being able to provide that level of support.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Green. I appreciate that. And that sounded responsive to
your question, Director Ruscha. So I think we can move on from there. Mr. Vice Chair, you are
recognized, Sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Again, with the fiscal note, fare revenues per
weekday, it will be one day. Law enforcement per day, it's a single day. Marketing is being requested
annually. Can someone speak to that, please? It's not a whole lot, but I do want to make sure that this is
not going to be something that gets us into trouble as we're dealing with budgeting for a single day of the
year at $15,000 every single year that we go forward with this. Just a little concerned. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. I see that Stuart Summers, our Director of
Marketing and Communications, has also lit up his screen. But I'll go to Mr. Green first. And then Mr.
Summers may choose to weigh in on that. Mr. Green?
CARL GREEN JR.: Yes, Director Tisdale, if I may-- so to start off, I just wanted to highlight, as we were
having the conversation of bringing forth this to the Board for Zero Fares for Transit Equity Day, as guided
by GM-CEO Johnson, and knowing that it's going to take a concerted effort to really highlight and
promote this day as a national day of action.
So in conversations with Chief Engagement and Communications Officer Stuart Summers, we highlighted
that it could be up to $15,000 for the first year. But as we think about this continuously, then it wouldn't be
as much, knowing that we would have already, the products or the assets to promote this day. And I'll
offer up to Stuart Summers if he would like to highlight any additional remarks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Green. Mr. Summers, do you want to append to that?
STUART SUMMERS: I would just quickly add that it is up to $15,000. So it's just an amount that we've
put in place, just in case we need to do any of that marketing or promotion. This would buy things like
vehicle wraps, on-vehicle advertisements, paid promotions on social media, anything that would relate to
the storytelling behind Transit Equity Day. We'd also want to promote the why behind this day and not just
the services that would be provided on that day, as well. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that. And I know that you also are in touch with the American
Public Transportation Association, APTA, and they have many collateral materials for National Transit
Equity Day that obviously, they would make available to us. Any other discussion on this recommended
action?
All right, hearing none. I believe at this time, we are prepared to go for a vote. Let me ask, are there any
no votes on this action? Having paused to allow people the opportunity to unmute if they wanted to say
no.
And having no one say no, then we have 7 aye votes, all of the Committee members, 0 no votes, and 0
abstentions on the motion that was made by Director Ruscha and seconded by Director Guissinger.
Therefore, the matter passes. Thank you very much.

The second recommended action this evening is for the Centennial State Liquid Investment Pool, the
CSLIP participation. And this is a recommended action for the Board of Directors to approve RTD's
participation in the Centennial State Liquid Investment Pool, also referred to as CSLIP. Is there a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion by Director Guzman, Vice Chair of the Committee, and a second by
Director Broom. I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Brendan Morgan, the
Senior Manager for Debt and Investments, to present this item. Mr. MacLeod, if you would lead us off,
please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Just wanted to let the Committee know that we will be
adding a resolution to this Board item. It occurred to us in past practice, when we add investment options
or investment pools, we have asked the full Board to approve a resolution if this Committee and the
Board approves this recommended action. So that will be added tomorrow to the package. And with that,
I'd like to turn the floor over to Brendan Morgan. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Morgan, you are recognized now.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Thank you. Good evening. I'm Brendan Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and
Investments. I'm going to talk about this local government investment pool, a little bit about what these
pools are, and some recent events relating to these pools. So to start with here, RTD's investment policy
prioritizes safety, liquidity and yield in that order of importance.
In order to meet these policy objectives. RTD invests some of its funds in Colorado Local Government
Investment Pools or LGIPs. As they're known as short. These investment pools are defined in Title 24 of
Colorado Revised Statutes, and are available to all Colorado local governments. LGIPs provide a benefit
to participating governments in the form of economies of scale, full-time professional portfolio
management, diversification, and liquidity.
In addition to RTD's fixed-income portfolios, RTD currently invests in three Colorado LGIPs known as
CSAFE, COLOTRUST, and CSIP. Investing in more than one pool provides diversification of RTD's
investments while also taking advantage of varying investment approaches, to ensure the most efficient
management of RTD's funds.
A new Colorado LGIP, named Centennial State Liquid Investment Pool, or CSLIP for short, was
established in May of 2024. The primary investment objective of CSLIP is to provide daily liquidity and
cash management. It looks a lot like a money market fund you might invest in at your own bank. CSLIP is
rated AAAm by Standard and Poor's. It has contracted with State Street Global Advisors as its registered
investment advisor, and Eide Bailly as its auditor.
Some of the local governments currently participating in CSLIP include the City of Centennial, Boulder
County, Boulder Valley School District, Alamosa County, and City of Cherry Hills Village.
Staff is seeking Board approval for RTD to become a participant in CSLIP, in order to leverage sea slips
investment approach while also further diversifying RTD'S investments, thereby enhancing the safety,
liquidity, and yield of RTD's funds. So with all that out of the way, we'd be happy to answer any questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Morgan. We appreciate that. And just to clarify while the
Chair has the option to do so, this is not an obligation or a commitment to invest in this CSLIP fund, but
rather, simply the authorization for RTD to do that should circumstances warrant or appear beneficial in
the future. Is that correct, Mr. Morgan
BRENDAN MORGAN: Yes, Chair, that is correct. The decision whether or not to invest and how much to
invest at varying points in time in the future are yet to be made. This is simply, as you said, giving the
option for RTD to participate and make the investment in the future.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. All right, then, Committee Member Dishell, Director Dishell, you are
recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you so much. And thank you for the presentation. I'm just wondering what
the rush is to bring it forward without seeing a year of performance and a year of audited statements. Of
course, the other government entities who have chosen to participate are great. But I think for me, I'm
wondering, from the risk standpoint, why we might see how it goes for a year before being in the quote,
unquote, "Guinea pig" phase of any investment fund.
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. Morgan, you may choose to respond to that. I think our colloquy might help
inform that response too.
BRENDAN MORGAN: I'd be happy to. Thank you. That's a good question. There's a lot of confidence in
the fund simply because of the advisors involved. If you look at State Street, I had an opportunity to meet
with their Cash Team, who runs a similar local government investment pools in California and I believe it
was Florida, as well. So they have years and years of experience operating as investment advisors for
these funds. So this is not their first rodeo, so to speak.
They also operate money-market funds, the same Cash management Team. So they have experience
beyond local government investment pools that are still investing in the same types of securities. Beyond
that, the AAA rating from Standard and Poor's gives some confidence that they've done a thorough
review. They've looked at the current portfolio and what the investment policy of CSLIP is, and deemed
that it's worthy of AAAm rating.
Doug MacLeod and I did some diligence. Doug met with a representative from CSLIP and picked his
brain for a while. I reached out to DORA, the state agency that regulates local government investment
pools, and spoke with them about what CSLIP has done so far, as far as being in contact with the
regulators. It sounds like they're checking all the boxes, dotting the I's, crossing the T's, and all is well
from a regulatory perspective, there.
So while I understand your concern, I also think that a reasonable approach to this, if the Board were to
approve, would not to be go whole hog and make a huge investment in this pool. We would likely
approach it in a manner that would reflect your sentiment, where we would tiptoe in and perhaps grow a
investment over time, if deemed appropriate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And again, not to put too fine a point on it, this is not a
commitment to invest in this pool, rather, the authorization for us, should we determine, in the future, to
do so, to be able to do so. Director Dishell, does that respond to your question?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, it does. Thank you so much, and appreciate it, and also appreciate the additional
note of tiptoeing in, especially with a newer fund.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. Are there any other Directors who have questions or
who wish to speak on this matter? If so, please raise your virtual hand. And I see Chair Davidson. Board
Chair Davidson, you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair. And Thank you, Mr. Morgan, for presenting this. I think I
know the answer, but I just want to confirm. The documents do reference Colorado statutes. And just in
recognizing that there are a variety of different entities that can participate in this, are there any practical
concerns, long-term, that changes in statutes may dictate our ability to continue to participate on this?
It seems, on the face of it, we are, at this point. But given that we are different than some of the others
participating, are there any risks associated with possible statutory changes? I know that's a bit
hypothetical, but just looking at the others participating, I'm curious if you've considered that at all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Chairman. Always good to hypothesize about some of these
things. That's why we're here, right? Mr Morgan, you may join in the hypothetical.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Thank you. I would agree. I suppose that that's certainly a risk that state statutes
could be changed at any point in the future. The nice thing is, none of these investments, if we were to
make one, would be any type of long term.
As I mentioned earlier, they look a lot like money-market funds. So if we were to make an investment and
there were a statute change that impact our ability or decision to participate and be an investor in these
pools, we would be able to liquidate that investment within just a day or two since these are very liquid
investments.
The weighted average maturity for these types of funds is typically around 30 to 60 days. So the
investments made are very short-term in the portfolio. And there's nothing that would give me concern
about RTD being stuck in an investment that it was no longer allowed to or wanted to be invested in.
The major risk there would be something more like a major credit event in the world bond markets that
impacted liquidity of all of these types of funds, where maybe they had to lock down the fund for a couple
of weeks while that 30-day weighted-average maturity rolled towards maturity, and the bonds matured at
par. So I think that might have answered your question.
ERIK DAVISDON: It does. Thank you for entertaining the hypothetical.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Board Chairman. Appreciate that. Before going back to
Director Dishell for a second bite at the apple, are there any other Committee members or other Directors
who have questions at this time? Vice Chair Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be real quick. I just want to maybe state the obvious. This is how I'm
understanding this conversation. Essentially, we're allowing ourselves to be able to diversify the portfolio
we have. That's it, right? It's as simple as that? With some safeguards, but-DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Morgan, you may feel free to affirm.
BRENDAN MORGAN: Yes, I would agree. That is the option that we are requesting, to have this as an
option to enhance diversification. Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right, and not seeing anybody else, I'll go back to Director
Dishell at this point. Sir, you are recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And I don't need an answer on this one, in this moment, but I just did want
to raise that from time to time, we, as an Agency, take a position that we are, in fact, a local government.
And sometimes, we take the position we are not a local government, based on what we do or don't need
to comply with for different State statutes.
As I see it, most of those participating now are local governments. And I'm wondering what impact, if any,
these types of decisions could portray for someone who wanted to challenge RTD's position when we say
we are local, we're not local, and how that might all play out. More of a legal question than an investmentrisk question.
DOUG TISDALE: And it's always good to have attorneys on the Board and on the committees because if
anyone can slice and dice these fine points, we, as lawyers, love to do that.
I would suggest that we accept Director Dishell's invitation to defer an immediate gut response to that, if
nothing else, so that we can avoid further involvement in the question of, do we say that we're a local
government or do we say that we're not? I submit we are. But nonetheless, I want to just give that
preface. That all having been said, Mr. Morgan, do you want to comment?
BRENDAN MORGAN: Thank you, Chair. I think your gut response is wise. And I think we will consider
that question.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Any other comments or questions from any
Committee member or any other Director, relative to the resolution concerning the CSLIP? All right,
seeing none, I will ask at this time, are there any no votes on this action?
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Tisdale, I'll be a no.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Dishell is indicated as a no. Are there any other no
votes? All right then, with 6 six aye votes and 1 no vote and no abstentions, that motion passes by a vote
of 6 to 1. The no vote was Director Dishell.
The third recommended action for this evening's meeting is the big show, the reason we exist, the 2025
proposed budget. Our third recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution number
blank, series of 2024, for the adoption of the 2025 budget, and resolution number blank, series of 2024,
for the 2025 budget appropriation and resolution number blank, series of 2024, for the appropriation of
2025, previously appropriated capital. May I have a motion, please?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved. Guzman.
DOUG TISDALE: And a second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And that was-- OK, so I have Vice Chair Guzman as the movement and Director Broom
as the second on the budget resolutions. I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, RTD's Chief Financial
Officer, and Todd Nikkel, the Senior Manager for Budget, to present this item. Mr. MacLeod, if you would
lead off, please.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr Chair. I am sharing my screen. Throughout this presentation, I would
just like to note that within the packet, the Board packet-- excuse me-- beginning on page 21, we have a
Board report followed by the resolution that Chair Tisdale referred to.
Also, is this presentation within the Board packet, but also the budget, the 2025 proposed budget book,
as well as changes, as an attachment to that. And there are also the changes that have been made since
the October 8 presentation to this Committee. And I will refer to those documents, the budget book and
the changes that have been made, on a little bit more of a summary level throughout this presentation.
So topics for discussion this evening is, talk a little bit about the background, go through the appropriation
recommendation for this recommended action, discuss some of the financial information in this final
proposed budget, and then talk about next steps.
So regarding background, staff did present the 2025 proposed draft budget to this Committee on October
8 at the Finance and Planning Committee. It was made available for public inspection prior to the October
15 required statutory deadline, both on the RTD website printed version in the Board Office, and also
notification was made in The Boulder Daily Camera and The Denver Post, as is required to, two widelycirculated publications.
This recommended action is seeking approval from the Committee this evening. If the Committee
chooses to approve the budget, it would move forward as a recommended action to the full Board on
December 3.
I'd also like to quickly mention, too, there was a press release that went out today-- you may have seen
that-- regarding the 2025 proposed budget, some information that went out to the public. So a lot of public
notification regarding this proposed recommended budget.
So what you'll see in the resolution for this recommended action is an appropriation totaling $2.8 billion.
So I would like to point out that each of these slides, where numbers are shown, they're in thousands. So
the last three digits are dropped off. So beginning at the top, operating expenses, excluding depreciation,
the appropriation request is $1,233,611,000. So I'll go into a little bit more detail on what makes up some
of those amounts in a few slides, here.
Debt interest and principal payments, not changed since the October 8 presentation. New capital
expenditures, there were some small additions there that I'll speak to, and also previously-approved
capital. Each of these is also available in more detail in the budget book.
Then, although we don't necessarily appropriate the fund balances, we include these because an
appropriation gives authority for staff to spend the funding. However, I would like to point out that each of
these, starting with the FasTracks internal savings account, capital replacement fund, operating reserve,
and unrestricted fund, are all limited to Board-specific approval if any of those funds were to be used.
These numbers here are just a projection based on the other cash flows from the other expenditure
appropriations that we project will be the balances at the end of 2025.
Financial information-- so much of this financial information has been taken out of the budget book. So
while the Board does not appropriate revenue, this is the estimate of revenues. And so beginning with
fares, what you'll notice is that fares still continue to make up only 4% of RTD's revenue, so a relatively
small percentage. Sales and use taxes, this number comes from the September 2024 sales and use
taxes forecast from the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business.

What I'd point out with this is, it's obviously still our largest single source of income here, at RTD. It
indicates that 67% of the revenues will come from sales and use taxes. But I think one important point to
note here is in the green section, grants and other income, $347 million.
That number includes the grant revenue that's going to be passed through, related to the Colfax BRT,
Bus Rapid Transit, of approximately $150 million. So that distorts the pie chart a little bit. So that's just a
pass-through grant. Expenditures are included in the expenditure appropriation.
And then $150 million to offset it is included in the grants. net costs to RTD is $0, but it distorts a little bit,
the pie chart. In fact, sales and use taxes are really closer to 75% of RTD's revenues, if we took out that
one-time grant pass through.
And then just a small amount on other revenue, $44,400,000. That's mainly investment income. RTD
currently has approximately $1 billion in invested assets. And that's the estimate of the yield that will
come from those investments over the next year.
Moving on to the operating expenditures and capital expenditures that were summarized in the
appropriation that's also in the resolution, this provides a little bit more detail, which is also in the budget
book. And I will hit on some of the highlights. What we're doing here is comparing what was budgeted for
this current fiscal year, in 2024, versus the proposed budget for 2025.
So beginning with salaries and benefits, what that indicates, in that row, is that the budget for 2025 will be
$52.5 million higher than 2024. The main contributors to that are, as we add staffing, to get up to our
staffing plan for the System Optimization Plan, comprehensive operational analysis, as well as additional
police officers.
And then there's a smaller component in there for inflation and wage increases, year over year.
Incidentally, the current collective bargaining agreement is currently under negotiations. And so there's a
provision in there for some inflationary increases, as well.
Moving down to the next larger item, outside services, so why this number is so large in both years is, this
is where we've included the additional Colfax BRT costs. That's not a capital item because it does not
belong to RTD. That's where the pass through, the other side of the revenue is. There's $150 million
additional in outside services. It's shown both in 2024 because you might remember that the Board
already approved that in 2024.
However, barely any of that money has been expended so far. So we are actually carrying that forward
into 2025 to re-appropriate it. So of the $388 million in that line item in 2025, approximately $150 million
of that amount is related to the Colfax BRT pass through.
Outside services is not a real good description of what's included in that line item, but outside services are
any contracted services that RTD does not do in-house. So for instance, the contracted security services,
certain IT services, certain legal expenses are embedded in that cost. Really, where RTD does not
necessarily have the expertise, nor should it hire a full-time person for one-time projects, those types of
things are included within that fairly large number.
Moving down to the purchase transportation line, so this one is also a little bit of a misnomer. So
purchase transportation really refers to any services that RTD purchases from third parties to provide
operational services. So bus, rail, paratransit, all of those costs are embedded within purchase
transportation. And towards the back of the budget book, there are departmental breakdowns.

So if you were to look at the rail operations page, there's a purchase transportation line in there. That
purchase transportation line is for Denver Transit Operators, based on the contractual arrangement, the
concessionaire agreement, to provide the A, B, and G line services for commuter rail.
So purchased transportation is really where RTD is going outside, to utilize the services of third parties to
provide operational services. RTD still owns all the assets and the underlying infrastructure in those
cases, for the most part. There are certain small exceptions where a facility is owned by one of the fixedroute bus operators. However, those costs are really related to the staffing and services provided by
those third parties, so a fairly large number there, as well.
And then finally, I'll move down to the new capital and capital carry forward expenditures, the last two
light-gray lines, there. So what you can see is, in 2024, $185 million was appropriated for new capital.
$232 million was appropriated for capital carry forwards.
And just as a reminder, capital carry forwards are capital projects that are funded by the Board through
the appropriation. They are not completed by the end of the current fiscal year. So the capital carry
forward appropriation request is to continue to use those funds for the same purpose as they were
originally intended, but to ask the Board to approve the funding to be brought forward. That funding has
already been designated in the prior year and set aside. So that funding would also-- it's basically on the
balance sheet. So it's already funded.
Why you see the switch between new capital and capital carry forwards between fiscal year 2024 and
2025, is due to the $150 million of Colfax BRT. So in 2024, $150 million was included in the $185 million
number for new capital. That is now included in capital carry forward in 2025 because it has not all been
expended.
So we're carrying it forward-- requesting that it be carried forward into 2025, and it moves down to the
next line. So overall, when you compare budget year over budget year, the total capital expenditure
request is decreasing by $57 million, largely due to completion of certain projects.
I just wanted to spend a little time on this slide, going through what has changed since October 8, the
draft budget presentation for 2025, proposed budget, versus what this current and final request is for an
appropriation. So you can see there, at the bottom, the total change in appropriation between the two
dates is $235,345,000. Just to hit on some of the highlighted, or the larger items, some of these things
occur after the draft budget is presented for public inspection.
So for instance, the fuel lock, RTD locked diesel fuel prices at an average of $2.52 per gallon. The initial
estimate was much higher than that. That saved $4.76 million in fuel costs. So that was a positive to the
budget. Moving down to the concessionaire agreement, $2 million of budgeted funds were removed from
the concessionaire agreement.
And the concessionaire agreement is the agreement with Denver Transit Partners to provide A, B, and G
commuter rail services. That concessionaire agreement consists of two annual portions of a payment that
are paid monthly, one being the fixed amount, which is essentially paying Denver Transit Partners back
for the principal and interest they borrowed to build those three lines, the Eagle P3 Project plus the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility.
So that was part of the overall financing agreement, the design, build, finance, operate, and maintain
concessionaire agreement. The finance portion of that is the fixed payment. That is fixed each year based

on a schedule. It's got a fixed rate of interest. It goes through 2044. And that's a portion of the payment
that's made on a monthly basis. So Denver Transit Partners can pay the bonds that they use to borrow, to
build the service.
The other portion of the concessionaire payment that you see in purchased transportation on the Rail
Department schedule is the actual service payment to provide operational services on a daily basis on
those commuter rail lines. I would note that one is not a fixed payment. That one increases each year
based on very specific inflationary factors.
There's a labor factor, there's a materials factor, et cetera, that are calculated based on published inflation
rates. So that can fluctuate each year. Or it will go up each year with inflation. Plus, if there's any
adjustments to service provision, those are also contemplated in that expense.
So throughout the year, at any point in time, RTD may approach Denver Transit Partners and say, hey,
we'd like to get some additional cleaning services or we'd like to add a little bit more service in this area.
Those are all negotiated and added to the monthly cost when those services are put in place.
Moving down to light rail operators, between October 8 and now, what we realized is that we think that in
order to meet the System Optimization Plan, that warrants having an additional 15 positions hired, that's
another $1,000,195. Parking Garage Preventive Maintenance Program-- this was a preventive
maintenance program that existed a couple of years ago, and was an ongoing basis to maintain parking
garages.
As the usage of those garages dropped off during COVID, that program was decreased to a certain
extent. And what we're asking is just to re-institute that at an estimated cost of approximately $2.1 million
annually.
And then finally, on the bottom line, that large number-- and I would point out that all the other items I
skipped over are mainly full-time equivalent positions. And what we had done between October 8 and
now is, there were one or two positions that we realized had not been budgeted, such as the
Apprenticeship Program Manager. That was added in.
There were other positions that we realized the way that we budget for things is not that everybody-- all
the positions get hired on January 1, but they're programmed throughout the year, based on throughput of
recruiting, as well as when those positions will actually be needed. So that's where some of those
adjustments are really coming into play, here.
Finally, the expense carry forward line item $237,259,000. So I discussed capital carry forward. We also
have an expense carry forward. So the difference between capital and expense, capital is related to an
asset. So if we're buying a new asset, that would be a capital asset that we recognize, a vehicle, for
instance, recognized on our balance sheet, recorded as a vehicle asset, and then depreciated over time.
That's a capital purchase that has a value more than one year, for accounting purposes.
Expenses, on the other hand, are more limited in time frame and their usage. So it would be salaries,
those types of things, that once they're spent, they're gone. So we have an expense carry forward that
affects our operating expenses. In this case, it's $237,259,000. That looks like a really big number to carry
forward. But what's embedded in that number is $145 million of rail reconstruction funding.
So you may remember the Board had approved, during the last budget approval at the end of 2023, $152
million. The amount that has not been billed at this point is $145 million. So we're asking to carry that

expense into next year. Again, it's replacing track and repairing track, reconstructing light rail track. So it's
recognized as an expense, as opposed to an asset that will get depreciated over time, since we're just
repairing and replacing.
So to summarize what's been changed in the budget book itself, we have this slide. And I say summarize
because there is more detailed-- a listing of each of the budget changes. I'd like to Thank Stuart Summers
again, in the Communications Department for all their work in tracking these changes. The detailed
schedules available on packet page 134 if you'd like to look at each specific page change.
But to highlight some of the larger items that have been changed, we added a debt service schedule.
There's approximately-- I believe there's three pages that show numerically, by year, what the debt
service RTD is committed to. Again, our debt service is fixed interest and fixed term, so it's very definite,
helps with budget certainty. So what you see there, unless we do additional refinancings, that will be what
the debt service is. It's broken out between principal and interest, as well, and also between base and
FasTracks, so a pretty useful schedule, gives an indication of what our commitment is as an agency, to
pay off our debt.
The capital carry forward, we discussed this on October 8. That number was not included at that point in
time because what we do, from a staff position, is that Board, that proposed budget, is developed up
through September. Well, there's still three months left in the year. So we try to get as close as possible
to the end of the year.
We have to look at each individual project where it stands, and what's likely to be needed to be carried
over to the next year because every day, there's expenditures being made on these. So we only want to
ask the Board to carry over what we project needs to be carried over to complete those projects.
That capital carry-forward amount was added into the appropriation request. There's also a schedule
available within the budget book. It begins on page 55 if you're interested in looking at the details for that.
We updated some of the information within the budget book to take it through August.
The October 8 budget book, we only had data for things ridership through July, so for a trend-comparison
basis, it was indicated through July. We got the August numbers and then just updated those numbers
through August.
We also, on each of the individual departmental budget pages, pages 64 through 74 of the budget book,
added a headcount by department. And there's a comparison of year-over-year headcount. 2024 to 2025.
So I think that's fairly useful if you're interested in looking at that. Throughout the document, there are
miscellaneous grammar, photo, and font changes. As we went through and reviewed it again and made
some adjustments, we cleaned it up a little bit to make it look more presentable.
And then finally, departmental pages enhancements. So those pages in the budget book, 64 through 74,
there were certain other additions we did, in addition to the headcount. We made some additional
narratives or disclosures regarding the initiatives in certain departments, such as the fuel lock that we
know about, the 15 added light-rail operators on the rail page. There's a couple of examples. , But also,
on the bus operations page, we also broke down that department a little bit further. That's our largest
single department here, at RTD.

So we added a break out of the paratransit costs, as well as a table, at the bottom of that page, which is
page 65, to show the special services costs year-over-year budget 2024 versus 2025. So hopefully, that
will be useful, as well.
As far as cash flows go, so we looked at the operating expenses and capital expenditures, previously.
This is what it looks like with revenue, also included on a single page. So we've got the 2024 budget,
2025 budget, then the change, and the percent change year over year.
So just going right to the bottom line, what you can see there is, the 2025 budget would expend a net
$112 million more than what was budgeted in 2024. And then I think what may draw attention to viewers
of this statement is, in the 2025 budget column, all the way at the bottom, what that shows is a net outflow
of cash of $471,772,000.
What's important to note on this-- that seems like a big number. What's important to note is that it includes
the capital carry forward that's brought forward, of $324 million. That's funded in a prior year with prior
funding. So you're looking at budget versus budget, not actual versus 2025 budget. So that's important to
keep in mind. So we're bringing some of those appropriations from 2024 column over into 2025 because
they have not yet been expended, to the tune of $324 million on the capital carry forward, which includes
the Colfax B-- or excuse me, the-- yes, Colfax BRT, I believe it was.
On the expense carry forward, we went through that. That has an impact-- if you take that out-- again, the
expense carry forward that was included in 2024 that has not been expended, that's pulled into 2025,
already has funding appropriated for it. And then finally, I would point out that this also includes-- there
will be some funding from the FasTracks internal savings account of $22 million.
That's not reflected here because we're not showing fund balances. We're simply showing the revenue
that's coming in. There's $22 million from the FISA that will be used to pay the three-year increase that
we're scheduled to pay to Denver Transit Partners for the 10-year annual refurbishments. So that's
funded from the FISA.
So if you take all those items out, this number is really-- the $471 million we're really looking at $44 million
net negative in terms of cash flow so a very small amount. And again, these are all projected and
assumed numbers. And again, next year we're going to have the same thing with capital carry forward
expense carry forward, money that doesn't get spent. Just as a reminder, with this appropriation, in order
for us to contract, for any contract, we have to have the appropriation for those dollars up front.
So even though we may not be entering a contract until November, say, of next year, we need the Board
to appropriate the full cost of that contract before we can enter into that contract. So on an annual basis,
what you'll see is constantly carrying money forward that was actually paid for in prior years.
And then finally, I just wanted to touch on next steps. Tonight, we're asking for the Committee's approval
to approve this 2025 proposed budget. December 3 would be-- assuming it passes Committee, we would
be requesting that the full Board approves the 2025 proposed budget. And then the budget would be in
effect on January 1, 2025.
Incidentally, the State requires that if a budget is not passed by the Board and approved by the governing
body prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, the agency would revert to only being able to spend 90% of
the prior year's appropriation. So, Mr. Chair, that concludes our presentation. And we'd be happy to
answer any questions.

DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. A comprehensive and cogent presentation,
as always. And the budget book expansion from what we looked at for the 2024 budget is noted and
appreciated. And the addendum that sets forth what the changes are from the October 8 presentation to
now is extremely helpful. So again, all of that fine work is very much appreciated.
Let's go around to the Committee members for questions. And we will begin with Director Broom. Director
Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you, Chair. I noted that you've hedged the cost of diesel fuel, which is
something you've done before, in the past, to guarantee how much you're going to have to pay. But my
question on that is, is there any loopholes that the supplier can get out? For example, if war broke out in
the Middle East and oil went from $60 to $120 a barrel, can they plead something and get out of that?
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. MacLeod, if you can, I think we're asking, is there, for example, a force
majeure clause in the contracts that they might rely upon? Mr. MacLeod, if you would try to go with that
first.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And thank you for the question. Not that I'm aware of. So I can explain the
basic construction of these contracts. So the way it works is, RTD contracts with a fuel provider. That fuel
provider actually purchases the actual financial contracts, the hedge contracts, to lock in those prices. It's
not RTD. So RTD has a commitment from that vendor to provide a certain number of gallons at a certain
price.
So that risk is really placed with the fuel provider. They also add in delivery costs. And incidentally, that
$2.52 looks a little bit different than what you see at the pump for diesel. That's because there's certain
State taxes and other-- or excuse me, Federal taxes that are not included in that number. So that's why
the $2.52.
But not that I'm aware of. But I'm not a legal expert. So I think it was basically market risk. I would liken it
to something similar. I worked at a company where we had hedge contracts on interest rates on loans.
And then Lehman Brothers was one of the holders of that. And this company I worked for was actually-and the interest rates were-- it was a hedge contract against interest rates rising. Well, interest rates
actually lowered. So this company was on the hook to pay the liability.
So in this case, that would not be the issue since the actual contractor holds that financial obligation. So
that's the only thing I could kind of liken it to. But I don't believe there's much risk from RTD's standpoint.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you. On the electrical side, you obviously have to buy electricity from Xcel
Energy to run the trains and so forth. How is that pricing arrived at? Does the PUC get involved in that?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, if you can take a shot at that one.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I might need somebody with more expertise on that end. Essentially,
the way we budget for it is based on what we know based on our current usage, as well as any potential
rate increases that have been communicated. And then we add an inflation factor, as well. So we try to
account for any inflationary amounts. And I see that General Manager Johnson is coming to my rescue,
here.
DOUG TISDALE: And was about to say-- because I know we've been through this process with the PUC.
And think General Manager CEO Johnson is our best voice in this case. So Ma'am, you are recognized.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Director-- or Chair Tisdale. And Thank you, Director
Broom, for the question. I believe what I heard Director Broom asking, does the PUC have any oversight
relative to us purchasing electricity? And recognizing that the PUC is designated by the Federal Transit
Association.
Federal Transit Administration is the State safety oversight agency. They do not have auspices relative to
whom we purchase electricity from. That basically rests to the Agency, relative to how we power vehicles
because if in fact, we had diesel or something of the like, we would not be entering into any oversight
from the SOA in that vein. So long story short, no, we are not conferring with the PUC relative to the
purchasing of electricity and power train consists.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may-- and I don't want to be presumptuous as to Director Broom-- but I think the
question was more focused on, do we have a different pricing schedule from Xcel Energy? And does the
PUC weigh in on what pricing may be accorded to the RTD, given the volume of electricity that we
purchase? And I think that's where Director Broom was going, Madam General Manager CEO.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I appreciate that clarification, sir. Thank you very kindly. And Mr. Jensen has
come on. I'll have him opine relative to the usage of that. So, Mr. Jensen, please proceed.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Mr. Jensen, you are recognized.
DAVE JENSEN: So our agreements are with Xcel Energy. And that's who we deal with. The PUC does
have some auspices over Xcel. But we are not involved in that.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And we'll let it go with that. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director
Broom, does that respond to your question now?
BOB BROOM: It does. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Sir. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, Sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. Mr. MacLeod, page 80, or packet page 122 of the budget, I'm
looking at the fiscal year '25 budget fund balance in thousands. And about halfway down, the first section,
I still see the TABOR reserve listed with a tidy sum for the next few years. Is that a mistake? Or is that
they're intentionally?
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. MacLeod, if you would respond to that one, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question. Director Guzman, is this the page that you're
looking at? I believe this is page 80.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Let me just blow it up, here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And we're looking at the net position above the FasTracks project. And then that
one that you just highlighted, there's two different lines that show-- table reserve lines.
DOUG MACLEOD: Gotcha. And thank you for the question. Yes, so this TABOR reserve-- and we should
probably rename this-- because we've been speaking to a TABOR reserve set aside in the fiscal policy to

set funding aside for projected refunds, in 2025, you may recall that our projection prior to the election
was that the first TABOR refund was projected to occur in 2027, of approximately $2 million, and in 2029
at $3 million. That is something different from this TABOR reserve, right here.
So under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, all governments are required to set aside 3% of certain non-federal
revenues, so 3% of their non-federal revenues. They are to be used for a declared emergency. So if the
governor of the State declares an emergency, that funding may be used, such as a flood, tornado, et
cetera, to ensure that government services continue to be provided. So that fund is always there due to
statutory requirements under TABOR.
We don't use it. We can't use it. And if you do use it under a declared emergency, TABOR, it says it must
be replenished as soon as possible. It doesn't really define that time frame, but that's what that is. And so
both the base system and FasTracks each have their own TABOR reserve based on 3% of non-federal
revenues.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That answers my question.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, that's very helpful that you explain that, because I think people, when they hear
TABOR reserve, ordinarily understand what Director Guzman was talking about, which is funds that an
entity will voluntarily hold back for purposes of paying a TABOR refund if that is triggered, as opposed to
the constitutionally-imposed TABOR reserve under the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights, which is, you need to
hold on to some cash in case there is a horrible emergency. So they really are two different funds.
And I think you expressed that well. And that helps. And I see that General Manager CEO Johnson has
some amplification on that. Ma'am, you are recognized.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you. And actually, I want to go back to the question posed by Director
Broom, relative to the PUC. While this doesn't pertain to the PUC serving as the State safety oversight
agency, I did want to qualify that with the entree of battery electric buses into this agency's bus fleet, that
the PUC helped regulate the price of electricity, since that was a newly established program. So I wanted
to offer that up as staff reminded me of that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for adding that because I had remembered that and didn't want to say
something because at my age, who knows? I could have made up that memory. But I appreciate your
adding that. Yes, they did give us an accommodation there, with Xcel on pricing. All right, then we'll go
next to Director Ruscha. You are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. I wouldn't mind to yielding to Director Guissinger first, if that's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: You are very gracious. And we'll happily accomplish that. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And Thank you, Mr. MacLeod and team, Mr. Nikkel and
everyone. This is great. I think it's a lot of good information. I really appreciate it. I guess I have an initial
question. We got this letter from Greater Denver Transit. Normally, we don't respond to public comment.
But this is a situation where we're required to publish it publicly. Do we then go back and meet with them
and respond to their questions?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger, Madam Second Vice Chair of the Board.
Mr. MacLeod, do you want to weigh in on that one?

DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. Thank you. Yes, and we can respond to each one of those and provide the
Board, as well, a response to those questions that were posed. So we will endeavor to do that in the next
couple of days. Obviously, you need to go over it with General Manager Johnson, provide that response
through her. But yes, each of those questions are good questions. And we do have good responses that
we can provide to each one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And one of them I wanted to ask, where are the headcount and
budget figures for the Service Planning and Development Division. Can you help with that one?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I'm sorry, Mr-- I was looking in the budget book myself, to see if I could find it
quickly. But in any event, Mr. MacLeod, you are recognized, though.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, and those would be embedded in the bus operations. So service
planning and development are part of bus operations on page 65, so it's not separately broken out. If you
would like to see that. Director Guissinger, we can provide that breakout, a more detailed breakout. We
chose to do it by department for this budget book for simplicity and understanding sake.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, that's OK. I was just-- I saw that one and I thought, that's a good question. They
have some other good questions. On page 65, it says, Bus Ops-- and I don't have it right in front of me-but Bus Ops is increasing fixed-route bus service by 10% over the course of 2025. That's great. I think
we're all happy to see service increasing. How did we get that number?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr Chair. Yes, and that was through working with Assistant General
Manager Fred Worthen in projecting out-- so in 2024, we've got a certain number of headcount to provide
certain number of revenue hours, and working with Bus Operations and Service Development, based on
the headcount we believe that we can recruit. So the way we budgeted for it was the additional headcount
and then the associated operating costs with that 10%.
Regarding the 10% specifically, I might need to get back to you on that, Director Guissinger, not having
been involved in all the details, if that's OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. I see Ms. Johnson raising her hand.
DOUG TISDALE: I was just going to say, I think we might have another quarter to hear from, here. So
Madam General Manager CEO, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And I know Assistant General Manager Worthen is on
the call. So for all intents and purposes, as we look at where we are with the reinstatement of service
delivery relative to the RTD agency branded comprehensive operational analysis known as the System
Optimization Plan, the determination was made, relative to what it is that we need.
And as we go forward with the additional headcount, it's also the level of trainers that we need in
reference to ensure that we could provide service delivery, as well as street supervision. Mr. Worthen, if
you'd like to expound on what I've outlined, please feel free to do so.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Worthen, you are recognized, Sir.

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Director. Fred Worthen, ATM Bus Operations. Yes, this year, we're taking
a little different approach to our service planning. We are actually planning 18 months in advance. We
have projected what our recruitment efforts will look like and what we believe will happen with our
retention efforts.
And we were very aggressive. We are adding approximately 100,000 revenue hours of service next year.
It will be primarily in the bus realm. And that will bring us to about 85% of the system optimization
projections that we have set forth in the plan, itself.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Madam Second Vice Chair, is that responsive to your question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Very responsive. That's great. So if we add 10%, we'll be at 85% of our SOP. And
so we're budgeting for that number. And is that based on the current hiring that we have? Or that's hoping
for additional hiring? Where are we on all of that?
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, Sir-DOUG TISDALE: We'll go back to Mr. Worthen for a response.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, it is based upon not only our existing hiring trends, but also our attrition trends,
as well, and what we believe we can support. We also have models to where we know that there is a little
bit of variation. So even if we don't hit our exact targeted headcount, we do know that we can still
continue to support a run board or service change with a small shortage, not a huge shortage, through
overtime and through volunteers, itself.
So based upon the projections that we have and working with Human Resources and the Service
Planning Department and Rail, we feel comfortable that we will be able to meet those projections. And we
do have a plan laid out for each one of our service changes this year. So we have actually laid out a
recruitment plan to align with the service hours we plan on putting in place, to make sure that we have
hiring ahead of schedule, and we're not chasing our tails like we have in the past.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. That answers my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: A colorful image to keep in mind, yes. So appreciate that, Mr. Worthen. Thank you, Sir.
And Director Ruscha, Director Broom is up for a second bite at the apple. You haven't had your first.
Would you like to defer to him? Or do you want to proceed now?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, if I could, I'll go ahead and proceed.
DOUG TISDALE: Please do.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. It's always good to let Director Guissinger go before me because she has
better questions. And she asked hers. She teed it off for me. I was actually going to ask about the
expansion of bus service. So my question was going to be, is that coming from Transdev or internal? And
it sounds like from what I just heard, it's internal.
And so the first on that is-- I guess the question is, what's the break ground-- Wow, break down. I'm ready
to go to bed-- in represented versus Non-represented? Is that something that staff can just follow up in a
memo for us so we get, I think, a better understanding, especially from the Operations perspective?

And I'm asking-- this is it for context. I don't want to be a Debbie Downer. But I'm looking at our attrition
and hiring data that we've gotten recently, and it's not where we want to be relative to front-line operators.
And so I think just getting a little bit more info, maybe again, a follow-up memo, could close the loop for a
few of us who've asked or are looking at this.
So that would just be a request of staff, unless it's something you want to directly address. I don't want
operations to bleed over into finance, less our Chair mutes my mic.
[LAUGHTER]
And then if I could, Mr. Chair, I did have a couple of questions specific to this budget. And if it's OK with
you, I'll go through them pretty quickly. I have four. And if it's OK, I'll just quick dialogue with Mr. MacLeod,
if that's all right?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you may proceed with dialogue. And we will note that your question has been
noted by staff. And we'll look forward to a response that will be made available to the full Board, relative to
those questions. And at this point, please feel free to colloquy with Mr. MacLeod relative to your four
questions.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. So the first is just a question about our carry-forward policy. So I
know a lot of governments or even just private organizations have a use it or lose it expense policy unless
it was specifically or especially appropriated over multiyear cycles. And I understand we have a capital
carry-forward policy.
But I heard you talk about both expense and capital, including operating. And so I guess my clarifying
question, is that a lump-sum carry-forward request? And is that also reflective of our fiscal policy? Does
our fiscal policy consider capital expenditures, operating, and the like?
Because as you've noted, operating expenses could be things like salaries and incidentals. And so it just
jumped out at me when you talked about the $145 million in rail reconstruction funding and expense carry
forward. So is that something you could speak to in the budget, and also what our current fiscal policy
states? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. Thank you also, for meeting
with myself, Todd Nikkel and Lou Cripps the other day. Really appreciated the dialogue on that. Great
question regarding the carry-forward policy. So within the 2024 and 2025 Board-approved fiscal policies,
it refers, I believe, specifically to capital carry forwards, not expense carry forward. And that policy sets
the limit at three years.
There's two reasons for that, one being that many of the infrastructure projects or capital projects that we
have can take up to three years to carry forward. So if there's no activity within a project that was
approved in year one, by the end of year three, if there's still no activity, recent activity within that period,
it needs to be rebudgeted from start as a new capital item, the reason being, we want to allow enough
time to be able to carry forward that amount to complete projects.
But after three years, if nothing's been done, it also becomes stale in terms of the pricing and going out to
bid, et cetera. So we want to go through the whole procurement process and come up with a revised
scope if any changes need to be made, scope of work, as well as a new internal cost estimate of what

that cost is because surely, the cost has changed over three years. That's the reasoning for that policy.
And it's certainly up to the Board's purview to make any changes to how often we carry those over.
Regarding expenses, those are generally spent within a year. And most of the expenses, so the noncapital operating expenses that we carry over, happened to be-- in my earlier example, we enter into a
contract in November and it's a six-month project. So they're all within one year. But they happen to
overlap fiscal years. So we're asking to carry that forward. And so there's not necessarily a need to limit
those.
And because we almost zero-base budget from each year forward, we look at each line item, working
with each department to develop that budget. And it would include those line items. Same question. Why
isn't there any activity on this budget and line item for this specific expense project?
Make a determination based on that. Should we carry it forward because it's going to be started at the
end of the fiscal year, needs to be carried into the next? Or just have that conversation? Maybe it's no
longer needed and we just don't budget for that in the next year. So hopefully, that answers that question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Somewhat. I certainly understand the carry-forward concept and what our fiscal
policy is. And I know that depending on an organization's definition-- for example, if we had a capital
improvement project, sometimes there are operational expenses that will eventually drop off. Or maybe if
we hired a new staff person, that becomes-- it's not something that needs to be scheduled over the
course of one to three years. It becomes part of the regular budget.
So I might just need to go back and look at the transcript. I had thought, and I could have misunderstood,
that you were referencing expense carry forward, not in terms of replacing assets, which of course, we're
always going to depreciate, but I was thinking of operational expense. So it's possible that I just
misunderstood you.
But I definitely get what you said, relative to our fiscal policy. I'll take a look at the transcript. If I have any
other questions, I'll just follow up in email for speed. And yes, thank you for meeting with me and your
team meeting with me. That was very helpful as we went through that. And it was just really generous of
your time. So I do want to recognize that.
And that brings me into the next one because I was going to say, thank you for that extra table for
paratransit and Special Services. And I think we have, just per our memo back in the spring, a few
additional services. Or maybe they were IGAs that we previously labeled special services. And so we
don't have to get into it tonight. But could staff just check to make sure that those match? And if any are
missing, we just include that or just maybe a note to the Board?
Because I think these additional services are benefits to the community, or these partnerships, it's a good
story to tell. And it's not always reflected in our budget book. And I consider our budget book to be a very
solid resource document. But it does show what we're spending our money on and the value we're
bringing to community. So it's just a bit of a note there.
And I couldn't find-- so please pardon me if it's in here, and I just couldn't find it. But our private
partnership dollars, as well as grant dollars for discount tickets, if they're being awarded in the next fiscal
year, is that in our current budget book or something that we could speak to, or make sure that we share
in our December meeting?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Yes, it is. And we do not have that broken out separately. So yes, we can
include that.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And again, I think it's a story that sometimes gets lost. And I want to
again, just say thanks for breaking out that table, with paratransit and Special Services. And before the
Chair cuts my mic, I know this might be an Ops question, but I know paratransit is under Bus Operations.
But is customer service for paratransit, which I do know that we outsource, is that under the same division
or department?
And just-- I'm trying to-- on packet page 64, which we have titled Organizational Structure by Department- thank you for noting department-- I'm trying to track the story. And I realized when looking over this, I
wasn't sure which department or division is responsible for ADA customer service. And it might not be
separated out, but if someone could answer, it would be helpful to know.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod. And you've anticipated already, some information here. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Yes. Thank you for the question. On packet page 65, it is included in the
Bus Operations. And paratransit services are contracted out, including the customer service portion of
that. And where you would see that is within this line-item, purchased transportation.
So in 2025, you can see most of these costs here are relatively small. The cost of the contracted services
for paratransit is $49 million, with most of the rest of these costs being just the small staff that we have,
administering that program for RTD.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Sir. And as you can imagine, for our conversation, I'm flipped right to
page 65 in the budget book. So thank you again for that extra chart. I just wasn't sure, as I was looking at
it, where we put customer service for a paratransit, and if it does fall under Bus Operations. So Thank you
for that clarification.
And then finally, we have-- I think. I didn't look at it page by page. I think we have the updated budget
book that we're looking at right now, on the website, today. And I really appreciate that. And I was just
wondering-- not to be nitpicky, but I don't know if it's best practice or just to show that we have an update.
This is an open-ended question. Maybe it's for the Chair of the Committee. Do we want to date that or
show the previous version, just to show the community that there has been an update?
Also, particularly for folks who might have been pulling this document off of that page of the website, it
might just be helpful to have that history. And it also, I think, shows the enhancements that we're adding
to the budget process. And so just a thought. Doesn't necessarily need a response, but maybe for the
good of the order. But thank you again, Mr. MacLeod, for all your time and your patience last week, and
during this meeting. I really appreciate everything. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And your time that you have spent on this is
noted and appreciated. And I very much also echo the thanks to Mr MacLeod and to his staff for taking
the time to meet with you and go through a host of questions, which is very helpful. Director Broom, I'm
going to defer you for a moment because the Board's first Vice Chair, Director Catlin, has raised her
hand. So I'm going to go to her first. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Forgive me. My voice is a little froggy. I just wanted to clarify-- I
noticed in the narrative that you talked about, had the TABOR initiative not passed, any refunds would

have been deferred to next year or the year after. So none of that would have been reflected in the
budget.
That being said, I know that for the sake of transparency, there might be some interest in showing any
monies that were realized or reinstated as a result of that TABOR vote, just where they may be applied.
And I'm told that some of that may be-- that we had interest-only payments on the FasTracks debt, and
now we are able to free up money for principal payments on the FasTracks debt?
But I just was wondering where the breakdown of that was because it seems like our budget's fungible,
but just for the sake of notifying those people who entrusted us with those TABOR funds, if we could
maybe estimate what some of that might be. I'm not saying in this budget, but maybe going forward.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin. And Mr. MacLeod, you might want to weigh in on that
because part of me is thinking that the five-year fiscal forecast might be a place for some of that. But I
leave it to you, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. yes Yeah, and thank you for the question. So, yes, it was projected that
2027 would be the first year that refunds might occur based on that current information during the FIFE
presentation. Given that, and we're talking about 2025, there was no provision put into this budget.
However, we would have put it in, had there been an estimated impact in 2025. So that doesn't need to
be changed at this point.
And I like your suggestion. I think maybe what we could do is, we could update those numbers based on,
now that we have the new updated sales and use tax forecast, and we'll be getting inflation numbers fairly
soon, but it would still be a forecast, of course, because we really won't know until the end of 2025 what
our actual results were versus the actual in 2024.
But it might be something worth tracking. It's just speculation, at this point, as to what that would be. But it
might be good to do a look back in several months and say, how are things developing? Did we dodge a
bullet as an agency in terms of not being subject to TABOR?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. Well, said. Director Catlin, something further?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, thank you. I was just trying to make a point that we might want to be transparent to
those people that have entrusted us with preserving that TABOR.
DOUG TISDALE: I think your message is well taken. Director Broom, we're back to you, Sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Several years ago, we had to make significant cuts in the organization
because of COVID. In fact, we adopted an 85% service level. And tonight, we heard that we're increasing
bus service 25% in the 2025 budget. So does that mean that we've totally recovered from COVID and can
now get on with our lives?
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Dr. Broom always has an insightful way of framing issues for us. But Mr. MacLeod,
since it was addressed to you, I'll give you the opportunity to weigh in on that, should you choose.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I would ask that perhaps, General Manager Johnson weigh in on the
operational aspects. What I can say regarding the budget is, in terms of the dollars, the way we budgeted
for this was to work with the Operations teams under Fred Worthen and Dave on the rail side, Dave
Jensen, to develop a budget based on what projected system optimization plan dollars would be needed
to meet those system optimization plans.
Regarding looking back to the prior-- pre-COVID, I think there's been so many changes within the
operational aspects and travel patterns that it may not be an apples-to-apples comparison, but welcome
any additional staff input from an operational perspective, regarding that question, if anybody has
anything to add. Thank you.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Ma'am. You are recognized.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And I know several Board members weren't privy to a
discussion in which we had during the Performance Committee. But there's a myriad of different factors to
take into consideration. You heard from Mr. Worthen earlier, as we talk about service planning and what
we're trying to do from an intentional vantage point, looking at 18 months as opposed to doing service
changes on an ad-hoc basis every four months or three times a year.
What we're trying to do is discern the path forward, and utilizing our comprehensive operation analysis as
the framework in which to make those decisions. More specifically, to your question, when you talked
about whether or not are we back to what life was prior to COVID, we won't be recognizing that. The
service patterns have been adjusted due to remote working.
And what we're trying to do is actually leverage a COA, going forward in 2025, whereby we can use
current data to make informed decisions, not looking at what's happening in 2019, recognizing that the
central business district, here within Denver, does not have the same level of occupancy and things of the
like, moving forward.
So while we're looking at providing additional services, what we're doing in that vein is looking at travel
patterns, demand, and going forward, to ensure that we have adequate staffing, we have adequate extra
Board and things of the. So from an operational vantage point, I would not necessarily say we're going to
get back to where we were in COVID. That was nearly six years ago. But what we're doing is ensuring
that we can have a framework, a transportation network, that meets the needs of where we are today.
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you very much. And I think staff did a really nice job of putting this year's
budget together. Thank you.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you, Sir. Appreciate your comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager CEO for weighing in on that. We
appreciate it. And interestingly, the concept reminds me of a favorite word of our friend, Bruce Abel, when
he kept talking about right sizing. So there's some right sizing that goes on, too. Are there any other
directors, members of the Committee or otherwise, with comments? Mr. Chair, Board Chair Davidson is
recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Tisdale. Thank you, Mr MacLeod. And thank
you to the whole team for an excellent budget book. I concur with all the comments that have been made

so far. It's an excellent document this year. I had two questions. They're both in areas that Mr. MacLeod,
you did touch on, but I just wanted to confirm and drill into a little bit.
So the first has to do with the revenue assumptions, which have been stated as conservative. But I know- and I do see that we're using the September 2024 CO Leads forecast, which is about 2.9% down from
the March 2024 forecast, which is good.
But as we've noted, throughout the year, we've been trending significantly below budget on sales and use
tax in 2024. We've been OK in terms of our net cash outflow because of the lower expenses in 2024.
But just in looking at 2025, if we did continue the below baseline, that below the mid forecast that's been
presented by Co Leads, I know we certainly can withstand that, but do you foresee that we would
increase the negative cash outflow and in effect, be drawing down reserves more?
Or is there some slack that's built in somewhat to expenses, where we could adapt, which has been
somewhat the case in 2024? So just looking for if that trend line does continue down, what we anticipate
our reaction to be.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And Mr. MacLeod, you may respond.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Our reaction would be exactly as you say, that to track that. We do have
some cushion before we would want to dip into reserves. I think we've done a good job as an Agency,
under General Manager Johnson's leadership and the Board's direction, in terms of improving our
financial position to where we now finally have some solid reserves. And it would be my opinion that we
probably don't want to dip into those unless we really have to.
So we have the ability on the expense side and the expenditure side to make adjustments on the fly. So
our intent would be to make adjustments. And we'd probably start with certain discretionary spending
that's included in the budget, without causing any pain for the organization. If it was rather severe,
obviously, we would want to come back to the Board, have those discussions. We'll continue to provide
monthly financial statements and provide information if it becomes a concern, certainly.
And then if it became something more dramatic, we would definitely want to have that conversation in a
setting such as this, about some options that we could address. Typically, in the past, and what I would
recommend going forward, is we first look at obviously, discretionary spending and possibly delaying
some spending in that respect until sales and use taxes recover. I think we're a long way off from that. It
would take several months. But preferably, we would do that before dipping into reserves.
We also have some other levers we can pull. So for instance, right now, all of our capital expenditures are
being cash funded with available cash. That has only been going on for about four years now, four or five
years. In the past, what we've done is, we've actually borrowed money to spread that cost over several
years. It ends up costing the agency a little bit more in terms of expense, interest expense.
Our interest rates are fairly low, about 2%, 2% to 3%. So not a huge hit to the organization. But there are
certain things that we could do like that, before we really wanted to dip into reserves or make any
significant expense adjustments. So it depends on the severity of what we're looking at, as to what
measures we would recommend.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And before you go on, Chair Davidson, I'm just thinking, if our interest
payments are 2% and if inflation is basically 3%, we actually make money by borrowing. Chair Davidson,
you had another question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I did, sir. Thank you very much. And Mr. MacLeod, thank you. Great answer. And
thank you for the thorough answer and the diligence in approach. My final question is also on another
area of potential conservativism and just wanting to make sure I understand it.
So although it's only 5% or a relatively small portion of the revenue, the budgeted revenue, looking at our
fare revenue, it was a notable variance from our budget to actual in 2024, the move from, I think, $74.9 to
$59.9 million on the fare revenue. While that was below budget, we still represented growth from fiscal
year 2023. But 2025 is looking pretty-- even further down, at $57.2.
So my question was just, is this a function of conservative planning, given what we have learned? Or are
there substantial things that we're anticipating impacting our biasing down the fare revenue?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great question. And because the new fare structure was implemented at
the beginning of 2024, that budget was based on projections from 2023. We also continued the Zero Fare
for Youth Program during 2024. I believe it was September 1, going forward.
So in the budget, we had not necessarily contemplated that program continuing. We now have a $5
million grant to offset that lost revenue. That will be spread over the next year and a half. So there's a little
bit of shifting going on between the fare revenue line and the grant line.
We think we're still being pretty conservative with our fare revenue estimates. But to your point, it did
come in below what we had originally anticipated with this new fare, with the new fare structure. And I
think we have a better idea of how that's progressing, going forward.
And just as a reminder, in the five-year financial forecast, we did not include, in that or this budget, any
fare changes, increases. So it's really just trying to get a good handle on, how is this developing in terms
of our past programs and the usage of cash-paying customers and our mobile ticketing, et cetera? So I
think we got our feet under us a little bit better, and have a better projection going forward, for 2025.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. That concludes my questions, Mr. Chair. And Mr. MacLeod,
once again, just thank you for the great work here. And thank you for those answers, Sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Board Chair Davidson. Appreciate it. Director Ruscha, you have
one last bite at the apple.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. I wasn't going to because sometimes I've been told I asked too many
questions. But I guess if we're talking about a billion dollars, it's OK to ask a few more questions. I don't
want to poke a bear or a sore spot, but again, looking at this chart, we've talked about increasing
services, but we're also talking about decreasing fare revenues. And you can see that year over year, as
projected.
And I'm not sure if this is something we discussed in December, but I couldn't quite close that-- I couldn't
quite square that when I was looking at the budget. So of course, I landed with the harder question. And I
don't know if that's something staff could address. I think Mr. MacLeod was getting a little bit there.

But I guess I'm just going to stop right there. And it's an open-ended question, slash, a comment because
those numbers are pretty significant, especially if we-- I know it was pre-COVID-- look back 5, 6, 7 or 10
years ago in those trends. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And although I think that's something that could be
responded to in greater detail later, I'll let. Mr MacLeod proceed if he has any observations he wants to
share now.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you for the question. And really, the way that the
budget was put together was, yes, we added the additional revenue hours, 100,000 revenue hours on the
Bus system. So yeah, that was there. But we did not contemplate from a conservative standpoint.
Generally, I think what would happen is you add service, add frequency.
And we didn't necessarily want to add additional revenue until we realized what that was, recognizing that
when you look at our cash flow statement, it looks like we're still at a break-even standpoint, based on
what the expansion-- except for $44 million.
So we could have assumed additional ridership and additional fare revenue, I suppose. It would have
been relatively small just because the fare revenue only makes up 4% of our overall revenue.
But from a conservative standpoint, we just projected based on current sales, what that might look like
without making big assumptions about ridership coming back because I think typically, what we see is,
when we add service, we might not see the ridership impact for a period of time. And we have the
staggered service plans that go into effect. They don't all happen on January 1, of course.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for concluding
your questions with that so that we have something to chew on. Committee Vice Chair Guzman, you are
recognized, Sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just really quickly, thank you so much for all of the work. Thank you for giving us
something to look back to and look forward to using, as we communicate with community about this. I
think this is a very big step in the right direction for all of us on the Board, to be able to engage with
community around discussions on budget. And I do appreciate the amount of detail that went into it.
Also, I don't know if anybody else saw the news today, but I am really, really grateful that we are not
looking at increasing our fares by 30%, as the board of SEPTA is considering doing in 2025. We are
looking at keeping the fare the same and continuing Zero Fare for Youth in this budget without increasing
fares for everybody. And so I want to say that and highlight it. I'll end there. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. It's nice to point that out too, because there are a number of
agencies that face a fiscal cliff, and are taking steps such as that. And it's appropriate that from time to
time, we might beat our own drum.
All right, are there any other questions or comments concerning the recommended action on the budget
to approve the three resolutions that are in your packet? Having paused and not heard any, we are ready
for a vote on the recommended action, as moved by Vice Chair Guzman and seconded by Director
Broom. Are there any no votes on this action?
Having paused and allowed sufficient time for directors to unmute if they wanted to express a negative
vote, the Chair will declare that this recommended action, passes unanimously with all seven Committee

members voting in favor, no votes in opposition, and no opposition. That motion will proceed to the
December 3 Board meeting.
All right, you are familiar with the fact that we have CART as part of our service to our constituents. And
having CART requires that we periodically take a break. So we are now going to take a five-minute bio
break, if nothing else. And we will finish up-- and we don't have a lot more to do-- we'll finish up our
meeting in five minutes. So I have. 7:23 PM. We will reconvene at 7:28 PM. The Committee stands in
recess. Thank you.
[AUDIO OUT]

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your patience as we dealt with our brief five-minute recess,
there. We have concluded the third recommended action. The fourth and final recommended action this
evening is for the salaried trustee appointment.
This is a recommended action for the Board of Directors to approve resolution number blank, series of
2024, reappointing Jennie Waski, Senior Specialist of Benefits, as a trustee with a term expiring
December 31, 2026, and appointing Anthony Sabia Director, Total Rewards. Vince Buzek, RTD Board
Director, and Troy Whitmore, RTD Board Director, as trustees, with terms expiring December 31, 2026 to
the salaried employee defined benefit pension plan, the DB plan, and salaried employee defined
contribution retirement plan, the DC plan, trusts. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Is there a second to that motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. I like it that not everybody speaks at once. You
take your time getting there. That's good. That's very polite. I would like to ask Marathon Man Doug
MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item to us. Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And as you described, we're just looking to get Finance
and Planning Committee approval and followed by Board approval to replace or extend terms, expiring
terms on these two trusts over the retirement plans for salaried or non-represented employees.
The only thing I'd like to add is, I want to thank Director Dishell and Director Broom for their service on
these trusts, very helpful, as well as Bill Weidenaar, who's an Engineering Manager in Bus Operations.
Much appreciated. And look forward to having some new members on the Board. So thank you, Sir.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you, Sir. At this time, any directors who have questions or comments
regarding this recommended action, please raise your virtual hand, and you will be recognized in order.
Seeing none. I echo the words of thanks that have been expressed by our Chief Financial Officer for the
service provided by our departing directors. And we thank you very much for that.
Having now allowed opportunity for discussion but having none, let me call for the vote and ask, are there
any no votes on this action?

Having paused and allowed sufficient time for directors to unmute and indicate a negative vote if they had
one, and hearing none, the Chair will declare that we have 7 votes in favor of the recommended action,
no votes opposed, and no abstentions. So the motion, as made by Director Guissinger and seconded by
Director Catlin, passes unanimously.
Our next agenda item relates to discussion items. There are no discussion items that we have scheduled
on this evening's agenda. And therefore, we turn to other matters. Before I open up to the Committee for
broader discussion on other matters, I will exercise the Chair's prerogative and raise some additional
awareness around the results, and recognizing the forthcoming impacts to RTD of several ballot
measures that were decided during last week's election.
First, the 2024 RTD election impact-- and I preface these comments with the fact that they are based on
unofficial election results published by the appropriate County clerks, as well as the Colorado Secretary of
State, but updated and validated as of this morning. RTD referred measure 7A, which asked voters to
exempt all revenue RTD receives from the scope of TABOR, has received over 71% in favor. I say again,
over 71% of the electorate voted in favor of disbursing RTD.
This means that henceforth, all RTD revenues will no longer be subject to the TABOR State constitutional
provisions. It cannot be overstated what a profound long-term impact this will have on the Agency. While
7A does not provide us with any new revenue, it does protect the RTD against the prospect of significant
revenue shortfalls that would be triggered by TABOR in the event of a major economic shock.
I'd like to point out that at least in some ways, this ballot issue was a chance for voters across our District
to provide direct feedback to us on how they see RTD performing. Clearly, at 71% in support of this ballot
measure, many of our voters have expressed confidence in RTD.
I'll further point out that of the eight counties that are contained within the Regional Transportation District,
not one of them has supported us at less than 61% in support for this measure. Some of the counties
were 79%, 80%. This means that RTD continues to enjoy the support of the people who live in one of the
nation's largest transit districts.
RTD also referred to the ballot, ballot measure 7B. Now, this ballot measure asked certain voters who
reside in the town of Erie whether they wished to be annexed into the RTD and be subject to RTD sales
and use tax on all goods and services that are sold in their geography.
This measure has passed. it will bring into RTD the entirety of the town of Erie. You see, currently, there
are portions of the town that are not in the Regional Transportation District.
Our service planners and other key staff have already been coordinating with officials of the town of Erie
on service to the additional areas in Erie that will now be included in the District. As of this morning, the
Secretary of State reports 948 votes in favor with 889 opposed. That's almost 52% in favor.
And then finally, a measure that this Board actually took official action to support, Denver ballot question
6A, concerning the Denver Downtown Development Authority. That measure has passed with over 77%
of the voters supporting that measure.
This measure allows the DDDA the Denver Downtown Development Authority, to issue up to $847 million
in debt to support the redevelopment of downtown Denver.

I currently chair the Board and have been fortunate to serve on the DDDA since 2018. I hope that RTD
and specifically, someone on this Board, continues to retain and cultivate this connection to the DDDA. In
many ways, the well being of RTD is inextricably linked to the vibrancy of Denver's downtown, central
business district. We must remain involved with the work of the DDDA.
All right, before closing out the meeting, are there any other matters that any Director wishes to bring
forward? Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Sir. I might eat the whole orchard on this one. This is definitely Director's
privilege, but I thought perhaps I could volunteer GM/CEO Johnson or perhaps Board Chair Davidson in
singing "For He's a Jolly Good Fellow." I saw Ms. Johnson's face snap to attention as soon as I said that.
I won't actually ask, but look, I know we often-- we save this stuff for the January meeting. This meeting
feels a little bittersweet.
And I know we have more business to do. But I just wanted to say, while we're here, I'm going to miss you
being Chair of this Committee. I learned a lot from you. And I thank you very much. As Mr. Bamber ended
his comments, so moved, I think that was a nod to you, Mr. Chair, because RTD isn't the same without
your booming voice.
And again, I know we save this stuff for January, but this being our last F&P of the year, thank you for
entertaining me. Just wanted to say thank you. You bring something special to the Board and to this
particular Committee. And it will be greatly missed. So thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. I am moved and honored by your words. Board
Chair Davidson, you are recognized, Sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. I'll just pile right on there, although I'm not very
confident in my singing voice. I'll just say, I raised my hand to say a very heartfelt thank you to you,
Committee Chair Tisdale, for shepherding and leading this Committee in the first year of Committee work
plans, staying as always, very disciplined and diligent in those work plans and in leading the Committee
through another successful year of work on Finance and Planning.
So thank you very much for that leadership. And likewise, the Vice Chair of this Committee, Director
Guzman, thank you very much for your leadership, as well, on the Committee, and leaning in and
engaging as a leader this year on the Committee. So thank both of you for that, and once again, General
Manager and CEO Johnson and our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, and their teams for
collaborating and working with the two of you, as well, on this Committee.
So thank you very much. And since I won't be here at the January meeting, I definitely am happy to say
thank you and farewell. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Board Chair. And we appreciate your words also. Board First
Vice Chair Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I echo those thanks, as well. And this Committee has been well
served by both the Chair and the Vice Chair. And I think that a lot of really good work has been done.
This is completely off track. But the Performance Committee has met. And we have quite a bit of work to
do until the end of the year.

So there will be a couple more meetings scheduled. And we are encouraging all directors to attend if
possible as we proceed with the business of that Committee, some of the topics of which were brought up
tonight. So just stay tuned. And I know Mr. Kroll will be putting out some scheduling and agendas, but I
really would ask that you all participate.
There will be one special Board meeting. Excuse me. And that will be on the 19th. But that will be at the
scheduled time of 5:30 as opposed to our normal schedule for the Performance Committee, of 8:30 on
Monday morning. So thank you. I just wanted to encourage Directors to attend, if possible.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's a very important Committee, obviously, and the work
which involves all of the board directors. It's important that we have those brought to our attention and
that we all serve reminded well by that. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I hadn't heard anybody mention them yet, but I think we owe a lot to our Legal
Department. We had some really big lawsuits against RTD that we came out on top of by hanging in
there. And that hanging in there was, of course, our Legal office. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I always like hearing lawyers being applauded for something. It's
a rare event. So thank you. And I think you're right. Our General Counsel and all of her staff have served
us well. We appreciate that. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, Sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Sir. They tell you not to learn how the sausage is made. And being a
leader of a Committee teaches you how the sausage is made, to get to the Board. So thank you for the
opportunity to work with you and learn with you and apprentice under you. Your leadership style is
amazing. And I promised you at the beginning of the year, I wouldn't be an easy Vice Chair to get along
with.
I think we worked that out pretty well. But it's good to have somebody to challenge thought process and
really plan thoughtfully through meetings. That said, if you don't mind, I will turn to the staff, CEO
Johnson, CFO MacLeod, all of the members of our wonderful staff who have gotten us through this year
and through our work plans.
It's not been an easy year by any stretch of the imagination. But we did it. And I am thankful to you for
your steadfastness and your guidance, for pushing both Chair Tisdale and I to get this done.
But really, Chair Tisdale, I cannot make my voice boom in the same way that you do. But I love you for it.
And I wanted to say thank you profoundly for everything that you have done to shepherd this Committee
along. And so I know that I am able to say this confidently.
On behalf of all of my colleagues that are not here, thank you because I think we have done the work and
brought it to the Board. And we have not missed a beat with any of our work plans. And that is a
remarkable feather to stick in your cap. So I appreciate you. Also, did you vote yes on that last initiative
for DDDA? I just want to make sure you said that.
DOUG TISDALE: And I believe I even posted it on social media.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Well, we've got some big shoes to fill. I think we've got to deal with APTA,
DDDA, and don't even know the other number of things that you do, as well as chairing this Committee so
well. So thank you for all of your hard work. It is much appreciated. And you will be missed.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. And you promised me that you wouldn't be an
easy Vice Chair. I think you lied to me. You were a very easy Vice Chair. And you worked exceptionally
collaboratively. Any other thoughts before I have a few closing comments?
All right, well, finally, as has been noted, this is the last Finance and Planning Committee for 2024. And
as we face having seven-- I said seven-- new Board members joining the RTD Board as of January 7, I
do have a few words I'd like to share with you all now. I'm now coming to the end of eight years on this
Board.
I've been honored to be twice elected as the Chair of this Board. I had the thrill of either attending or
actually cutting the ribbons for the A Line, the B Line, the G Line, the Southeast Rail Extension, the Civic
Center Station. And while I was mayor of Cherry Hills Village, I attended the ribbon cutting for the W Line.
That's this poster that you see, back here, that you've wondered about through the years. What the hell?
Throughout my years on the RTD Board, I have encouraged all of us to communicate, collaborate,
cooperate. Never has it been more important for this Board to do that with each other, with our General
Manager CEO, and with all our employees and customers. You must communicate sharing information,
problems, concerns, solutions. You must collaborate. The collaboration that you do is the driver. It's the
engine of RTD's success, of RTD's advancement.
And then ultimately, you must turn that collaboration into cooperation, actually doing something positive.
So I ask you all, please, to take forward this torch that we call RTD, and carry it into the future.
Do not let it be quenched. I leave it in your hands, confident that it is in good hands, that it will not be
extinguished, and that it will continue to burn bright, and will grow. And years from now, when you speak
of our time together-- and you will-- be kind. Thank you.
The next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for someday to be determined in
January, at which time, the Committee will hold elections for Chair and Vice Chair, as well as discuss its
work plan for the coming year. And seeing no other discussion, the meeting of the RTD Finance and
Planning Committee for Tuesday, November 12, 2024, is adjourned at 7:48 PM Mountain Standard Time.
Thank you all. And have a great night.

