Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 18, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 28, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements Contract

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the contract for Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and
Plaza Improvements with T-Bone Construction, Inc., in the dollar amount of
$1,270,874.94. Funding of this action is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
B.

Award of “Group 27” Contracted Fixed-Route Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services “Group 27.” This
contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year
cost of $128,033,723.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel
costs in an amount estimated to be $13,804,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total
5-year not-to-exceed amount for the contracted fixed route transit service and fuel is
$141,838,638.00.
This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-055 to provide “Group 27” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
on May 13, 2017.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

2018 Performance Measures Adoption

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2018 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. In 2018, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the
GM, which is the same number as in 2017.
D.

Award of Mobile Ticketing Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Mobile Ticketing System to Masabi LLC, in an
amount not to exceed $1,450,000. This price includes the cost for period of performance
of a base two-years and three one-year options.
E.
Approval to Enter into Agreements to Contribute Funding to the Colorado
Department of Transportation for the Mobility Choice Blueprint Technical Consultant(s)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into any and all
agreements required to provide $400,000 in Regional Transportation District funding in

support of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Study. RTD’s funds are to be used for the
technical consultant(s) selected to conduct the Study, in partnership with the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG), as articulated in this Board report.

XIII.

Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b) and (e): Discussion of regulatory and legal matters relating to
Eagle Project Concession Agreement.

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

