1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 18, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:34 PM
5:29 PM
5:31 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM
5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:30 PM
5:33 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk

Director, District H
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:33 PM

Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:28 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:29 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were fifteen (15) members present at roll call.
Directors Archuleta and Deadwyler left the meeting early.

IV.

Staff Present:

Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Mike Barnes, Carolyn Conover, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Richard Fahlstedt, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Cory Granrud, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Inez Lucero, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Tom Papadinoff, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Lindsey Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Mark Tieman, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Christina Zazueta

Others Present:

Athena Aceves, Marpessa Allen, Megan Arellano, Belita Bennett, Rutt
Bridges, Dr. William Gross, Jim Gunning, Don Hunt, Rod Mana, Tina
McDonald, Dan McKean, Brenda Mosby, Darla Ortiz, Joe Racosky,
Linda Rahikainen, David Sais, Holland Schellhase, Roger Sherman,
Marjorie Sloan, Susan Spry, John Thomson, Lloyd Walter, Bob
Wilson, Evelyn Zues

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy stated there were no retirees for the month of April.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
Brenda Mosby, Denver, stated that she had two concerns. She said her first concern is
regarding her friend who was almost hit by a train because she did not hear the train
coming into the station. She stressed that the same thing has happened to her in the
past. She voiced that she does not believe that operators always use their horns to alert
pedestrians that they are near. She explained that her second concern is how people run
across the tracks when they are trying to get on a train and the conductor will not let
them in. She stated that it was a safety concern.
Marjorie Sloan, Golden, introduced herself as the Mayor of Golden and Vice-Chair of the
Metro Mayors’ Caucus. She stated that she spoke on behalf of not only herself but also
the Metro Mayors’ Caucus. She said that she has been asked on behalf of the Caucus to
provide a united message of support for Mobility Choice Blueprint. She described how all
sectors of government have been making great strides as a region to plan and invest in
mobility needs. She stated that by working together to secure voter support, everyone is
now witnessing the transformative power of alternative modes of transportation as seen in
FasTracks. She said by looking at how to maximize existing mobility structure,
investments in infrastructure can be made to make the region more competitive and

enhance the quality of life. She stressed that the success of RTD will be determined how
the agency supports an away of public/private mobility investments. Mayor Sloan stated
that it is critical that RTD partners with Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
and Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) and the mobility business
community. She said RTD cannot afford not to join the Mobility Choice Blueprint effort.
Tina McDonald, Northglenn, stated that she represented the Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition (CCDC). She said that CCDC has had several meetings with RTD in regards to
the fact that the current buses purchased in 2014-15 and the new buses proposed do not
meet the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards. She explained that the ADA
requires 9” clear vertical space in the 30X48” securements. Ms. McDonald said that she
passed around diagrams which showed that RTD’s securements are inside that 48”
window, meaning that wheelchairs actually only have 46” to try and fit in. She stressed
that multiple wheelchairs block up traffic in and out of the buses to the point where a
person might have 4 or 5” between them. She stated that she has personally been on a
bus where someone was murdered. She also said that she has personally been involved in
a near-fatal bus accident where she was rear-ended and smashed underneath a school
bus. She proclaimed that a terrorist killed a man who was a friend of the disability
community and was more than happy to accommodate passengers. She stressed that
some RTD staff are still ignoring the issue. She closed by saying that it is RTD’s choice
whether to make these buses compliant now.
Kent Bagley, Littleton, former RTD Director of District H, stated that he is a firm supporter
of the Mobility Choice Blueprint effort. He said that he voted for the proposal last fall and
believes in it. He stated that he has had the opportunity over the past month and a half to
speak with Board members encouraging Mobility Choice Blueprint. He stated that some
Directors are for Mobility Choice Blueprint, some are against it, and there are some that
are still undecided. He stated that some alterations for the better have been made to the
plan since it first came to the Board in the fall of 2016. He said that the opportunity to
collaborate with CDOT, DRCOG, other municipalities, and private businesses is critical. He
explained to those Board Members who still need information can ask more questions over
time. He mentioned that he had the opportunity to attend a South Metro Denver
Development Group presentation and networking opportunity. He explained that there
were several private businesses at the table including Arrow Electronics, Uber, and
Lockheed Martin. He said that technology is ever changing and RTD cannot overlook
mobility issues.
Doug Gragg, Denver, said that RTD should not pay someone in London to do the mobile
ticketing application for RTD; instead RTD should pay someone to hold a sandwich board
in front of RTD to solicit local competition for the project. He also said that when he was

coming to the Board meeting that he was on a bus with older style wheel chairs. He said it
made hard for him to exit the bus with the loaded wheelchairs on the bus.
Smith Young, Douglas County, opposes the Mobility Choice Blueprint proposal. He stated
that he understands that the amount of the contract was reduced so that the decision
might be voted through. However, he does not believe that there is enough transparency
and encouraged the Board to vote against Mobility Choice Blueprint.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
There was no update from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 28, 2017
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of March.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) ,1 abstention (Sisk), and 1
away (Folska).

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
AWAY:

ACCEPTED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
Chuck Sisk
Claudia Folska

Chair Hoy declared this motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy gave the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS
 April 3rd – The memorial plaque recognizing former General Manager Cal Marsella
was unveiled at Denver Union Station. Directors Anderson, Tisdale, Williams and
myself attended.
 April 5th – The Chamber of the America’s hosted an Online Multi-Device Habits
seminar. Director Solano attended.
 April 7th – The Adams County Economic Development (ACED) held an Executive
Showcase luncheon. Director Solano attended.
 April 7th – The Metro North Chamber held a State of the Region & Development
Showcase that I attended.
 April 11th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group hosted
an Executive Roundtable. Director Tisdale attended.
 April 14th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group held
their monthly breakfast. Directors Tisdale and Williams attended.
ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
 The Citizens Advisory Committee will be hosting a Work Session Wednesday, April
19th.
 The Downtown Denver Partnership will be hosting their 2017 State of Downtown
Denver breakfast on Thursday, April 20th. Directors Solano and Williams will be
attending.
 Accelerate Colorado will be holding their Transportation Policy Committee meeting
on Thursday, April 20th. Directors Anderson, Folska, and Williams will be attending.
 The University of Colorado A Line will be celebrating its one-year anniversary with
Customer Appreciation Events on Friday, April 21st. Coffee and donuts will be given
out at the following locations:
o Union Station, Track 1 platform 6:30 – 8:30 a.m.
o Peoria Station, Commuter Rail platform 6:30 – 8:30 a.m.

o Denver Airport Station, Transit platform 5:00 – 7:00 a.m.
 DRCOG will be hosting their 2017 Awards Celebration, Our Region Rising, on
Wednesday April 26th. Director Williams will be attending.
 The Local Coordinating Council will hold their Douglas County meeting in Castle
Rock on Thursday, April 27th. Directors Mihalik, Tisdale, and Williams will be
attending.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova gave the following report:













Attended a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) quarterly meeting on Wednesday,
March 29th
Had conference call with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board on Thursday, March
30th
Attended an Operations division walk-through at Elati on Friday, March 31st
Presented to House Transportation and Infrastructure committee staff on Monday,
April 3rd
Met with Steve Fender, Karl Alexy, Bob Lauby, Thomas Hermann, and David
Blackmore of Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) along with DTP in Washington
D. C. on Monday, April 3rd
Presented to Senate Banking and Senate Commerce committee staff on Monday,
April 3rd
Had a conference call with Senate Banking Committee staff on Friday, April 7th
Attended a partnering session with DTP and RTD on Monday, April 10th
Met with Deya Zavala of Mile High Connects and Chair Hoy on Tuesday, April 11th
Had a conference call with Matthew Samelson of the Donnell-Kay Foundation on
Wednesday, April 12th
Keynote speaker at Railway Age and RT&S Light Rail Conference and Rail Transit
Finance forum on Tuesday, April 18th

General Manager Genova added that the on-time report for the University of Colorado ALine is at 90.4% and the on-time report for the B-Line is at mid-90s. He stated that the
overall on-time average for all rail lines at 94.5%.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an item a
Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda. Seeing no
discussion, he asked for a motion to approve items A and B.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
items A and B on the unanimous consent
agenda.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 15 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval of Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements Contract

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the contract for Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and
Plaza Improvements with T-Bone Construction, Inc., in the dollar amount of
$1,270,874.94. Funding of this action is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
B.

Award of “Group 27” Contracted Fixed-Route Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
First Transit for the provision of contracted fixed-route transit services “Group 27.” This
contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year
cost of $128,033,723.00. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel
costs in an amount estimated to be $13,804,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total
5-year not-to-exceed amount for the contracted fixed route transit service and fuel is
$141,838,638.00.

This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-055 to provide “Group 27” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
on May 13, 2017.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

2018 Performance Measures Adoption

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopts the attached 2018 Performance Measures for mission statement goals
1-7. In 2018, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM,
which is the same number as in 2017.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the 2018 Performance Measures Adoption.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 4
opposed (Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [11 TO 4]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
D.

Award of Mobile Ticketing Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the new Mobile Ticketing System to Masabi LLC, in an
amount not to exceed $1,450,000. This price includes the cost for period of performance
of a base two-years and three one-year options.

Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to approve the
award of the Mobile Ticketing Contract.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten said that the Board received a letter regarding
patent infringement and a notification of the difference in the
bids. She wanted to know if anything had changed since the
previous meeting.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, stated that there is a
difference of $22,000 between the bid based on the scope of
work. She said that the additional $300,000 in Masabi’s bid
for phase 2 would cover additional fare media RTD wants to
add to the mobile application.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that there is nothing in
the letter that changed since the previous meeting.
Director Menten asked how long it would take to move a
potential injunction through the court system.
Mr. Asphaug stated that the timing depends on the plaintiff.
Bytemark, and whether they are granted an injunction. He
said that they would have to prove irreparable harm. He said
that there are potential risks, but noted RTD would be
investing a limited amount of money.
General Manager Genova stated that his office received a
statement that Bytemark will not protest the award.
Director Anderson asked if Bytemark would have to post bond
to get injunctive relief.
Mr. Asphaug stated that he was unsure but he would look into
Director Anderson’s question.
Director Anderson told the Board a story about her friend that
lost her bus ticket when approached by a RTD fare checker.
She stated that her friend is very technologically savvy and

said if she had paid her fare on her phone then she would have
been able to find it. She said she believes that the application
is a good thing and it will increase ridership. Director
Anderson said that she would be voting yes.
Director Deadwyler stated that she would be voting no. She
said that when she originally became a Board Member there
was a push to buy American and she said she cannot agree
with sending money to London regardless of how good the
application is. She said she believes that the agency could
find someone locally to provide the same services. She stated
that she does not think it is wise to buy a product while the
vendor is in litigation.
Director Francone stated that she echoes Director Deadwyler’s
comments. She stated that she agrees that there needs to be
mobile ticketing but not at the risk of being sued. She
stressed that she would be voting no.
Director Tisdale said that he learned in his career as a litigator
that anyone can be sued at any time for any reason, but the
question is whether you can win in court. He stated that he
was comforted by the fact that Bytemark, in a letter to the
Board, wrote that their “letter should in no way be viewed as
questioning anything about the procurement process that was
undertaken or the members who participated in it”. In
response to Director Anderson’s earlier question about
bonding, Director Tisdale said that one section of the Colorado
Rules of Civil Procedure would compel Bytemark to obtain
some sort of security. He reiterated that he was confident in
General Counsel’s ability to draft contract language to protect
RTD and hold it harmless.
Director Williams said she supported the proposal and pointed
out that the application is fully ADA compliant.
Director Solano stated that he believes the agency should
work on finishing projects like the Smart Card before investing
in another project. He said that he would be voting against
funding the application.

Director Walker said he would be supporting the movement.
He stated that technological companies frequently sue over
infringement issues and that litigation does not bother him.
He said that he has faith in RTD’s legal team to protect the
interests of the agency. Director Walker stressed that the app
would increase ridership because of the ease of the purchasing
process.
Director Solano stated that, although he moved the motion, he
would be voting against it.
Chair Hoy said a mover can vote against the motion.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 6 opposed (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

PASSED [9 TO 6]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
F.
Approval to Enter into Agreements to Contribute Funding to the Colorado
Department of Transportation for the Mobility Choice Blueprint Technical Consultant(s)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into any and all
agreements required to provide $400,000 in Regional Transportation District funding in
support of the Mobility Choice Blueprint Study. RTD’s funds are to be used for the
technical consultant(s) selected to conduct the Study, in partnership with the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG), as articulated in this Board report.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the
Mobility Choice Blueprint.

Director Sisk seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Archuleta stated that he has received numerous calls
regarding Mobility Choice. He asked Ms. McKillop to help him
understand why she said previously that RTD was struggling
financially yet the agency has money to fund this item.
Ms. McKillop explained that the money would come out of the
Board appropriated fund. She stated that RTD would be
restoring that money in the amended budget. She said that
every purchase is based on priority and that the money would
come from funds rolled over at the end of the year or RTD
would otherwise recue other accounts to pay back the Board
appropriated fund. She stressed that, if the Board identifies
Mobility Choice Blueprint a priority, then staff would make
reductions in expenditures to pay back monies used out of the
Board appropriated fund.
Director Anderson stated that CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD are all
public bodies and whatever business they conduct is in front
of the public and needs to be transparent. She stated that she
has been working on transportation planning for the past 30
years and the only way for initiatives to work will is if all
parties that provide transit services work together. She said
that CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD all conduct public meetings and
minutes are taken and published on-line. She stated that
transportation is changing so rapidly because new
technologies are being developed every day. In order for
CDOT, DRCOG, and RTD to provide reasonable and safe
transportation in the future all the agencies must work
together. Director Anderson said she would be voting yes.
Director Francone stated that she was a not vote last
September, she was a no vote last week, and she would
continue to vote no on this proposal because of transparency
reasons. She agreed that pubic agencies lie CDOT and
DRCOG need to be transparent but noted that does not hold
true with private businesses, specifically the Mobility Choice
Board, which is made up primarily of Denver and Boulder
business entities. She said that she has asked for documents
in the past from the Mobility Choice Board and still has not

received them and is not even certain who is on the Mobility
Choice Board. She stated that she thought that Southwest
Metro Chamber was supposed to be invited to sit on the Board
but she does not believe that happened. Director Francone
said she is still uncertain what the Mobility Choice Blueprint is
supposed to do and she feels that their efforts may be
duplicative of all the other transit reports out that have come
out within the last year in regards to the emerging technology.
She echoed Ms. McKillop’s statement on priorities and
believes that the agency’s main priority is keeping service
levels up instead of spending $400,000 to support this study.
She closed by saying that she does not think the study is good
business for RTD.
Motion to
Postpone
to a Time
Certain:

Director Folska made the motion to postpone the
Mobility Choice Blueprint until the July 25, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Menten seconded the motion.

Discussion: Chair Hoy stated that the motion on the floor is to postpone
this discussion until July’s Board Meeting. Chair Hoy asked
Mr. Asphaug to help guide him through the motion.
Mr. Asphaug said that the motion to postpone the Mobility
Choice Blueprint until July 2017 takes precedence over the
main motion and the motion to postpone is debatable.
Director Williams stated that she does not believe that people
can be swayed to change their vote between now and July.
She affirmed that she would be voting yes and she is certain
the Directors that are voting no will more than likely vote no in
July. She said to move forward with the vote and not to table
it until July.
Director Lubow stated that she is not ready to vote yes
because there are still some issues that she wants to be
addressed. She said the postponement would give her time to

talk and get more information from the people who are trying
to sway her vote.
Director Tisdale spoke to the main motion. He said the motion
itself only authorizes the expenditure of up to $400,000 in
order to fund a technical consultant to conduct the Mobility
Choice Blueprint study in partnership with CDOT, DRCOG, and
Mobility Choice. He stated that the motion does not create
any other financial obligation or establish the structure of the
study’s oversight committee but rather gives RTD the
opportunity to sit at the table with a larger group of people to
engage in dialogue once the study has been conducted. He
said the Board could vote yes because the motion was
constrained and stated that he would be a no vote on the
substitute motion to postpone.
Director Deadwyler said that the agency is overlooking its
constituents. She said she received emails from constituents
telling her to vote no on Mobility Choice Blueprint. She stated
that she will vote yes to table vote until July to allow her more
time to talk to her constituents before making a decision.
Director Mihalik said that he takes issue with the Mobility
Choice Blueprint structure and he wonders if the public
participants are not subsidizing their business plans and their
market studies. He said the proposal states that public
agencies would take the lead in the study while the private
businesses would take the results from the study and any
information gained to support projects outside pubic agency
purview. He said he wanted some additional time to research
this proposal.
Director Broom asked to call the question.
Chair Hoy asked if there were any objections to the call of the
vote. No objections were made.
Mr. Asphaug clarified that a yes vote would postpone the vote
until the July Board meeting and a not vote would take the
discussion back to the main motion.
Vote on

Motion to
Postpone
to a Time
Certain:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:

The motion passed with 7 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Menten,
Mihalik) and 8 opposed (Anderson, Broom, Hoy,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams).

FAILED [7 TO 8]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Natalie Menten, Director, District M
Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Solano

Chair Hoy declared the motion FAILED.
Chair Hoy stated that the Directors would then vote on the
original motion.
Director Solano called for the question of the vote for Mobility
Choice Blueprint.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 6 opposed (Deadwyler,
Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten)
Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Old Business
The was no old business.

XIV. New Business
Director Francone stated that she has been in contact with Dave Britton from Uber, who
said he and his team would like to meet with General Manager Genova and Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, because they have a plan regarding call and
ride or Access-A-Ride services.
Director Folska commented that she hopes that the staff working on the Mobility Choice
Blueprint initiative will look at the macro aspects instead of the micro. She stated that
although unmanned vehicles and driverless cars are a hot topic, she does not see how that

will mitigate congestion. She stressed that whomever Mobility Choice Blueprint hires as a
technical advisor, should have knowledge in policy implications because if anything goes
to a vote, then that person must be able to sell new ideas to the voters.

XV.

Executive Session
Chair Hoy asked for a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b) and (e): Discussion of regulatory and legal matters
relating to Eagle Project Concession Agreement.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b) and (e):
Discussion of regulatory and legal matters
relating to Eagle Project Concession
Agreement.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

The Board adjourned into Executive Session at 7:30 p.m. after a verbal acclamation. Chair
Hoy asked designated staff to stay.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

