1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 25, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk called for everyone to stand and recite the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District H

Status
Absent
Present

Arrived

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Absent
Present

5:33 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:23 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:23 PM

5:32 PM

5:33 PM
5:38 PM
5:26 PM

5:37 PM

Paula Perdue called roll. There were eleven (11) present at roll call and four (4) absent.
Director Menten arrived after roll call and Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and Lubow were
absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Mike Ames, Bill Bell, Shirley Bennett, Bob
Brown, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Phil Eberl, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud,
Svetlana Grechka, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Mitch
Kuharski, Marla Lien, Reuben Martinez, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Jimmy Outlaw, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Cal Shankster,
Pranaya Shrestha, Greg Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Pauletta Tonilas,
Bill Van Meter, Paul Von Fay

Others Present:

Jeff Boerma, Gary Forbes, Doug Gragg, Wayne Graham, Sherman
Hamilton, Rita Kahn, Betty Martinez, Steven Mohan, Kenny Shepard,
Shane Tempel, Jim Toweill, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Richard
Visher, Monte Whaley

Retiree Awards
Assistant General Manager Bruce Abel, Operations, recognized the retirees from operations
and asked Mike Ames to do the honor of introducing them.
Mike Ames introduced Reuben Martinez who retired as a street supervisor after 23 years
with RTD. Mike stated Reuben had spent 6 years in bus operations before moving to
street supervision. Reuben was an excellent employee and very dedicated. General
Manager Washington interjected that he had seen Reuben working on a fence at his house
in Aurora so he surmises Reuben will have a big “honey do” list for his retirement. Reuben
thanked RTD for the opportunity to be a part of the operations.
Mike Ames introduced Jimmy Outlaw, an employee with over 20 years experience at RTD.
Jimmy began also in bus operations and spent the last 16 years as a dispatcher. Jimmy
had cross- trained on a number of other positions including street supervision. This is
Jimmy’s second retirement-first with 20 years in the Air Force and now with 20 years at
RTD.
Jimmy stated he considered it a privilege to have four families: His first and second
personal families, his Air Force family and now his RTD family. It is an honor.
Assistant General Manager Austin Jenkins, Rail Operations, acknowledged the retirees
from rail operations and invited his managers to assist him with the presentation.
Terry Emmons, rail operations manager, introduced Greg Boysen, instruction supervisor for
Maintenance of Way, for his 34 years of service. Greg was unable to be present but Terry
reflected on his stellar career. He stated he had worked with Greg over many years and
Greg was a trained and skillful craftsman. Terry and Greg’s career expanded over 31

years together including working the East Metro graveyard, District Shops and terminating
at the LRT division. He wished Greg a happy retirement.
Phil Eberl, manager of LRV Maintenance introduced Cal Shankster who retired as
maintenance –of-way manager with over 30 years service at RTD. Cal of course needed
no introduction as he had served as the acting AGM of rail operations in the interim before
Austin Jenkins had been hired. Cal was skillful and knowledgeable about every phase of
LRT and did his work with precision and dedication. Cal had begun his career in bus
mechanics and moved over to LRT in 1993. Terry Emmons added he had worked for Cal
for a number of years. Cal was a person who worked around the clock and never slept.
He was a great mentor and will be missed.
Cal expressed his appreciation to all of RTD, the staff, and the current and former Boards.
He is grateful for the work he got to do at RTD and will be moving on to start his new
career with the Denver Transit Operations Division for Commuter Rail.
Chair Sisk thanked all of the retirees and stated they were the reason for RTD success.
They were unsung heroes who had done their work with pride and integrity. The Board is
extremely grateful for the time they devoted to RTD and wish them the best in their new
endeavors. Thanks for a job well done.

V.

Public Participation


VI.

Richard Visher, Denver, spoke as an access-a-ride client. He recommended that the
10-coupon book be changed to a 12-coupon book but keep the same price.

Committee Reports
There were no changes to the committee reports.
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Lasater
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Bagley indicated that the new committee had met. The first survey
monkey will be in mid-April and he is hoping for full participation.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 18, 2014
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
February 18 Board meeting minutes.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor and 0 against.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and Lubow were
absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Sisk provided this report:
 Several Board members attended the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington
D.C. (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, RiveraMalpiede, Tobiassen, Walker and Chair Sisk). This was a great event and the
Congressional meetings, etc. were well coordinated by Sherry Ellebracht and
Patton-Boggs. They had the opportunity to visit with a number of key people in
Washington. The name RTD was heard throughout the hallways. Several
comments were made about the testimony that General Manager had participated
in the week before the Infrastructure P3 Panel Subcommittee. We spoke with one
voice and focused on the ASK.
 Chair Sisk and Director Daly attended the Hispanic Contractors of Colorado 24th
annual banquet where Director Rivera-Malpiede received the Community Advocate
Award.















X.

Directors Anderson and Daly attended the Jeffco EDC Annual Industry Appreciation
Awards at the Arvada Center for the Arts and Humanities.
Director Dr. Claudia Folska received an award at the 2014 WTS Colorado Annual
Awards Gala and was also recognized as the WTS International Award for the Rosa
Parks Diversity Leadership Award. She will accept this award in Portland Oregon.
The North Metro Groundbreaking Ceremony was well attended and a real success.
Several RTD Board members attended: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska,
Hoy, Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano and Walker. A number of dignitaries spoke
around the collaborative effort and process. Directors Hoy and Solano spoke also
and did a wonderful job representing the Board.
Director James attended the ULI Shifting Suburbs Series on bus rapid
transformation.
Several Board members plan to attend the Road Ahead-Designing for Density:
Implementing Transportation Solution on March 27: Directors Bagley, James,
Rivera-Malpiede and Sisk.
On Saturday, March 29, the LCLAA Cesar Chavez Dinner Dance and Awards
Ceremony will be held. Director Solano purchased a table and will be representing
RTD along with Director Rivera-Malpiede.
The COMTO annual scholarship banquet will be held on April 11. Several Board
members plan to attend which includes Director Deadwyler, Folska, RiveraMalpiede, Tobiassen, Solano and Chair Sisk. This should be a wonderful event to
support youth in transportation. General Manager Washington and a couple of
other RTD members were the founding members for this Chapter.
Board members and senior leadership have received the meeting summary notes
and results from the survey of the Joint Strategic Planning Advance which was
held in March. Gary Suiter did a wonderful job of facilitating this retreat.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Washington provided these comments:
 On March 27, RTD will host a visit from the Regional Transportation Commission of
Southern Nevada. RTD will provide an overview of their DBE program, WIN, Eagle
project and take them on a tour of DUS. Director Rivera-Malpiede as the Chair of
the Civil Rights Committee will represent the Board.
 RTD has been a participant in the Clinton Global Initiative for the past couple of
years. This year the event will be in Denver and RTD will be participating. This will
be a good chance to share with national and international key decision makers.
 RTD is continuing to plan for a couple of visits which will occur in the next couple
of months:
1. House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee P3 Panel—When he
testified before the Panel a couple of weeks ago, he had invited them to
come see what Denver is doing. They will be here April 22-24. He is not





XI.

sure of format as they are coordinating their own schedule. RTD will be
talking about DUS and the Eagle project. They will also visit with the US 36
Coalition and DIA. This is a great opportunity for the City of Denver. He
has heard back from the Subcommittee Panel where he testified and they
have provided him with about 15 follow-up questions. This is normal
procedure and he will share with the Board when complete.
2. DUS Grand Opening—Planning is underway for the P3 Roundtable on May 9
which is hosted by Patton-Boggs. There are three aspects to this
roundtable: Public sector panel which will include RTD, CDOT and perhaps
member of FTA; Private sector which will have an international flavor and a
Dialog with the Transportation Secretary Foxx and WIN participants.
The Free Metro Ride vehicle was available today for the Board members to review.
We are on target to have all of the Free Metro Ride vehicles ready before the DUS
opening. We are making progress on the bus bowls at 18 & 19 street. At the
opening, we will have peak hours service only to Civic Center.
RTD continues to rack up awards for our West Corridor. We have received awards
from WTS and the APWA for our work on the West Corridor. This attests to the
collaboration and interoperability of a great team working together on this project.

Unanimous Consent
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A-C

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with eleven (11) in favor (Bagley,
Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, and Walker) and one (1)
against (Solano). Directors Anderson Deadwyler and
Lubow were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Bruce Daly, Director, District N
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT: Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow

Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

A.

Budget Transfer for West Rail Line Track Paving

It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to transfer $650,000 of the remaining
funds from the Wadsworth parking structure project to install track paving at three RTD
West Line Light Rail Stations.
B.

Property Acquisition for the North Metro Rail Line Phase 2

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the North Metro Rail Line Phase 2 from 72nd Avenue to 124th Avenue,
Adams County, Colorado and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process
under state eminent domain law and to provide the General Manager or designee with
authority to enter into all contracts necessary to execute real property transactions.
C.
Authorization for Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the West Colfax
Business Improvement District for the Transfer of RTD Shelters & RTD Site Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designee to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with West Colfax Business
Improvement District (WC-BID) for the transfer of ownership of 7 older model “Daytech”
shelters & 2 trash receptacles, and to reimburse WC-BID for the purchase and installation
of 5 new trash receptacles. The cost of the trash receptacles is included in the 2014
Adopted Budget for local government requests.

XIII.

Recommended Action
D.

Award of “Group 24” Contracted Fixed-Route Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 24” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit, Inc. This
contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $61,038,650 with two (2) oneyear options in the amount of $22,578,190 (option year 1) and $23,750,230 (option year
2), for a total five year amount not to exceed $107,367,070. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be approximately
$13,536,453 for the initial three year contract term, $4,725,730 for option year 1,
$4,836,631 for option year 2, for a total of $23,098,814 for the five year period. This
results in a total contract amount not to exceed $74,575,103 for the initial three year
contract period and $130,465,884 for the five year period. This proposal represents the

most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 14-DH-003, to provide “Group 24” Public Transportation Services. The contract to
provide this service is scheduled to be effective on August 17, 2014.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to approve item D,
Award of “group 24” Contracted Fixed Rout Services.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 11 in favor (Bagley, Daly,
Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 opposed (Solano).
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and Lubow were
absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT: Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XIV. Old Business


Director Folska asked a process question about unanimous consent. She stated she
could understand when we pass things all at once that are similar but suggested
we might separate them when the items are not similar. Chair Sisk acknowledged
her comment.
Director Lasater shared that how the process normally occurs is if there is an item
to be discussed on the unanimous consent, this item is pulled from the unanimous
consent for further discussion. Items appear on the unanimous consent agenda
when they have passed committee unanimously and do not really have anything to
do with whether they are like or unlike. This is the process they followed in Parker
and this is the protocol for most unanimous consent agendas.

XV.

New Business


Director Bagley commented the visit to Washington D.C., stating it was well
organized. He thanked Sherry Ellebracht and Patton Boggs for their efforts. He





shared that he had hosted a tour of the DUS facility with a group of people from
the South Metro Chamber (40 people). This is a group interested in economic
development.
Director Rivera-Malpiede also thanked Sherry Ellebracht and Patton Boggs for the
wonderful Washington D.C. trip. They showed outstanding leadership. She also
provided an update on Former Director Matt Cohen, stating that his spirit is strong
and he continuing to coach soccer for his kid. Tumors have appeared in his legs
but he has not given up on God. He would love to hear from members of the
Board.
Director Solano noted that the North Metro groundbreaking was on March 20 and
video was done of this event. He repeated his request for a copy of the full video.
He stated that many of his constituents were unable to attend and he wanted a
copy for them also. He wanted this request on record.
Director Solano stated there had been a report by the Northglenn Sentinel with an
error stating the “west line.” It should have said the “North Metro Line Opening
and he wanted a correction on this also.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, responded to the request for a copy of the video for
his constituents. She stated the proper process would be for this to request a copy
via the open req process (CORA).





Scott Reed responded to the issue of the media error. He stated the error had
occurred on the printed media but not on the online version. He had sent Director
Solano a copy of the apology from the editor of the Northglenn Sentinel who
acknowledged they had simply made a mistake.
Director James commented that he too thought the Legislative Conference was
very productive. He shared that he conducted a DUS tour with the Colorado
Chapter of the Appraisal Institute. There were about 35 of them and they found
the tour enjoyable.
Director Daly shared that he will be hosting a tour on March 26 with a group of
professional and business leaders from Evergreen called the Pathfinders. They will
ride the West Line to downtown, have lunch at the Wynkoop where Pauletta
Tonilas will share with them information about FasTracks, and take the DUS tour.

XVI. Executive Session

XVII. Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned at 6:35 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

