2023-04-06
Audit Committee
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Good morning, everyone. Today is April 6. This is the Audit Committee
meeting of the Denver Regional Transportation District Board of Directors. My name is Bobby Dishell.
And I am the chair. And [HEBREW] to those who are observing Passover.
Today, we have no recommended action items, but we do have public comment. And I do not have a
script, so I apologize. I'm going off of the memory of public comment. Anyone is welcome for public
comment-- to comment on any item that is in this month's agenda for RTD or the prior month's agenda.
Speakers will have three minutes to speak. Should-- all of this meeting is being recorded. So should you
not want to be recorded, please feel free to submit your written comments or materials to RTD-- to
board.office@rtd-denver.com. Is there anyone in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There's no one in the queue, and there were no emails.
BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. Thank you. And I forgot that I will also call the roll. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Vice Chair Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I am here. I will also note for the record that we're joined by Director Guzman as
well as our internal auditors from-- not Plante Moran, but RubinBrown-- Matt Marino, Dave Haronik, as
well as Chief Financial Officer Doug MacLeod And I apologize, as I'm trying to get my-- [SIGHS]-- script
agenda. OK.
No recommended action items. Our first item today is the External Audit Update and Required
Communications. I believe there is a presentation from staff. Mr. MacLeod, is that you? Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And good morning. And so, as you know,
Plante Moran is the firm that performs the external audit of our financial statements. They're currently
working on the 2022 financial statement audit. It's referred to as the Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report, or ACFR.
They also do work regarding the Single Audit. So the Single Audit is an FDA requirement in which the
auditor looks at the schedule of federal awards and audits certain payments and draws to make sure that

they adhere to federal requirements. That particular item is getting additional scrutiny both this year and
last year not only from our external auditors but also from the federal government.
PricewaterhouseCoopers is also looking at our grant draws related to the COVID funding. RTD received
over $700 million in COVID funding apportionments. So we've drawn 88% of that. That's a hot button
issue for the feds to ensure that it was spent as appropriated. So those two items are two of the issues
that they will be looking at.
In addition, Plante Moran also performs agreed-upon procedures looking at our National Transit
Database filings. Those are a requirement of the FTA. There's two sections for NTD filings, one being the
financial information that's submitted. So it includes a lot of financial information, but it also includes
statistics such as ridership, revenue hours, et cetera. There's a separate section that's done by the Safety
Department. That's at a different time of the year, but this is the big one. So Plante Moran will also be
looking at our NTD filings.
Those NTD filings determine the amount of appropriations that occur. So for instance, 5307 preventive
maintenance grants for the transit industry that come through the DOT, subsequntly through FTA-- those
are a yearly apportionment. A certain total amount will be apportioned by the federal legislature to go to
DOT to apportion out to agencies. That apportionment across all agencies is based on NTD filings,
primarily revenue miles. So it's a pretty big undertaking that Plante Moran does each year for us.
This letter that's attached is really the required communications to the Audit Committee of the work that
they will be performing. It also includes information, such as contacting them from this body. If there's any
questions, anything in particular that you'd like to have them look at the intent would be to come back in
May at the May Audit Committee to present the final ACFR for 2022. That's the audited financial
statements. That gets presented as an action item to be accepted into the records of RTD. Also, there
would be a report regarding any findings that were found or any items that were needed to be reported
regarding the Single Audit for federal awards as well as a report to governance.
As the governing body, the Board gets a report each year just pointing out any findings, any general
practice recommendations, some basic information of trended numbers. Anything that this body might be
interested in, too, they can add to that comment-- or that report. So with that, I would ask Matt Marino-- as
the audit expert, is there anything else I missed that should have been disclosed from the external audit
standpoint?
MATT MARINO: I think that's it. And I think they did talk to Director Dishell verbally. And kind of I had the
opportunity to interact with him as well. But Doug, I think you covered it fantastic and got all the pertinent
highlights. So.
DOUG MACLEOD: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I may have missed this. So forgive me. But has this letter gone in
the packet for the Finance Committee for the full board to see yet?
DOUG MACLEOD: No, it has not. It is not on the April 11 Finance Committee agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it-- it would be too late to add it, or could it be included as an information item in that
packet just so the whole Board knows that it's-- this engagement is underway?
BOBBY DISHELL: The full Board got the letter.

PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I said. I may have missed it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, the full Board did get the letter.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, great. Perfect.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Mr. MacLeod, one quick question-- I know I believe as of two weeks ago, we were
about two weeks out from finishing field work and getting collected information. And I will note they were
highly complimentary of you and your team. Do you know how they are-- how we're doing? Or have they
concluded field work? Are we still waiting on things from trustees for the 401(a) and the pension? And
what do we need to do to make sure that they have what they need?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. Yes. And yeah, that's great context for the work they've
been doing. They wrapped up their fieldwork with us on Friday of last week. Where we stand with that-we got some items late. And as a trustee on those trusts, I intend to next year try to get planning done a
little bit better with them.
Just so that the full committee knows, there's always late information that comes in. We rely on other
parties to provide information. So we have trusts that oversee the benefit plans for both the Amalgamated
Transit Union as well as separate trusts, of which Director Catlin has served on, that oversee the benefits
for salaried employees or non-represented employees. That information usually is a little difficult to get
because we're relying on an administrator with the trust to contact third-party contractors, such as
Empower, that oversee the 401(a) plan for salaried employees to get the information that we need to
disclose in the financial statements.
And I think Matt and Dave have probably had experience with this. We usually have some stragglers. And
it's usually due to that information, information regarding the pension actuarial reports that come through-we got some of that information pretty late in the field work last week. It did hold things up a bit. Plante
Moran was able to reschedule some of their staff to review those items this week.
Today is the day that we will send the first draft of the full package, the full ACFR to Plante Moran for their
first review. Generally, what happens is they take that first stab at it, tick and tie numbers. They've done a
lot of the upfront work.
So at this point, it's really more cleanup. The information will be presented to General Manager and CEO
Debra Johnson as well as legal counsel to have them do a review of the information as well. And once
that's done, we will get an audit letter or an audit opinion.
Thus far, we haven't been notified of any issues that have been encountered. So we hope that it will be a
clean opinion with no findings. I anticipate it will be. If there are any findings, I anticipate they'll be very
minor. So with that said, that is kind of where we stand, Mr. Chair, on that process.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Any other questions on the ACFR audit? Great. Seeing none, our
next discussion item is the enterprise risk assessment and proposed 2023 internal audit plan, I will turn it
back over to Mr MacLeod and Mr. Marino.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd just like to introduce Matt Marino from RubinBrown as well
as Dave Haronik, who will give a presentation on this item.
MATT MARINO: Perfect. Thank you. So we're here to present the enterprise risk management update. As
far as-- we had done one in the past and gathered feedback from the directors, or management, and the
team at RTD. We did decide that it had been a little bit of time and the world has changed. So it was time
to refresh that risk management a little bit. So I'll go ahead and share my screen. And we'll start talking
through the enterprise risk management.
We're really here to get feedback from you all. We have some ideas of areas that we might want to do an
audit of, but we also want to make sure we got feedback from the Audit Committee to make sure-- "Host
disabled screen sharing" it says. Are we able to-BOBBY DISHELL: Mike, or Tai-Shrae, or Jillian?
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Yeah, try-- I just fixed it. Hang on. Give it a sec.
MATT MARINO: It looks like we're good now. I'm hoping everybody's seeing the enterprise risk
assessment. OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We see it. Thanks.
MATT MARINO: OK. Let me move you all out of the way. So the enterprise risk assessment has a couple
of different things. So the risk management process overview-- so first thing is identify the risks, assess
the risk, and then monitor and manage the risks.
We really needed to look at this and reassess it because it had been a year, funding's changed, economic
things had changed. And so there were risks that were identified last year that moved up a little bit. There
were other risks that were there that falled down. And we'll go through that in some detail.
But we're really looking at how to make sure that we are managing the risk for the organization and
performing audits to provide feedback to the Board and management on areas that might need some
improvement or changes in order to make the operations more efficient, more effective or just manage
the risk so that we don't have any huge unanticipated items. Dave, did I miss anything on this as far as
stuff that I should go through?
DAVE HARONIK: No, I think, yeah, you covered it. I think with-- one of the main risks last time around
was the Board and obviously with the new governance with the Audit Committee. I think that was
remediated and moved down the list. So what we'll go through in a little bit will be what's top of mind now.
MATT MARINO: OK. So we interviewed 12 of 15 Board members. And we did interview 14 RTD staff.
Great participation across the board. Thank you all for your time and input. It was greatly appreciated
from all of you that participated as well as RTD staff.
We hit people in Planning, Human Resources, Safety, Operations, Finance, Police, IT/cyber,
Administration, and Legal. So it was very broad-based from the RTD staff side as well as the directors.
And everybody had good feedback. There were some themes that we'll highlight and will show up in the
overall risk assessment. But we did try and hit as many people as possible within our interview process.

So here's the overall risk universe. So you can see. There's lots of risk. We're-- RTD's a big organization.
And there's lots of things that we have to work on from a strategic, operational, compliance, or financial
sort of perspective. The items highlighted in bold are risks that were highlighted by interviewees. So-- and
that's important because that helped play into how the risk ranking worked and all that sort of process.
But a lot of no surprises here. Financial-- I think everybody's pretty straightforward on that there's
budgeting limitations, financial pressures, risk, all that sort of stuff. You have your typical compliance-your ADA, your OSHA, your HIPAA liability, all that sort of stuff.
Operational-- we had safety and security be spiked out civil unrest, a large diverse service area, all that
sort of stuff. And then strategic-- Board composition, oversight, innovation and technology management,
and lifestyle trends were all items that were highlighted by interviewees. Any questions on this part of it?
Not seeing any, I'll go ahead and proceed.
So here's the top five risks. So what we did is we went through, and we gathered all the information from
the interviews. And then we sent out a survey to all of our participants and asked them to rank the overall
risk from a, are we prepared, unprepared-- or unprepared, slightly prepared, moderately prepared, and
prepared.
And so, as you can see here, the top risk that was overall rating was ability to attract and retain
employees. So we noticed that there were challenges either bringing the employees into the door and
getting them hired or retaining the talent that we already have on house and making sure that we can
retain those people into the future in the very competitive job market. We also were notified of the aging
condition of the fleet infrastructure. It's been several years since major parts of our overall system have
been put into operation. And so there's maintenance that needs to occur and things that come up over
time as far as preventative maintenance that could cause inefficiencies if it's not done.
Public safety and security was another one that came up quite a bit, as the last several years, we've seen
an increase in crime-- use of controlled substances on RTD property. And then it's just the overall risk to
health and safety for the general public, customers, and our personnel. And then we have resistance to
organizational change. RTD is a large organization. And making significant changes is always more
difficult. And so if there are strategic adjustments that need to be made, there could be some resistance
to that organizational change.
And the last one-- that's a little outside of our ability to control or mitigate too much-- is a declining need
for public transportation due to the pandemic, the hybrid or remote work environment, and then the
reduction in overall ridership. Any questions on the risk rankings or any of the descriptions there? I'm not
seeing any hands that were raised. So I'll go ahead and proceed. Dave, did I miss anything on that or
mischaracterize anything?
DAVE HARONIK: No, and I guess I'll just add that the overall risk rating is a simple math formula of the
risk preparedness times the risk criticality that was ranked. And we came up with those numbers there.
So obviously, the higher the rating, the higher the risk-- perceived risk.
MATT MARINO: So this is a risk heat map. So obviously, much like with hot objects, the deeper orange or
red it is, the hotter it is and the higher risk it is. So most of our stuff was in the slightly prepared area, with
some in the moderately prepared area.

So you have your severity on the left side, and you have your probability on your right. And so obviously,
if something could be catastrophic and very frequent, it could become very, very red and very important to
us. So the key risks are the same. They're just plotted on this graph if you're more of a graphical type of
person then the data sort of person.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Marino, before you proceed, we have a few questions from the committee.
MATT MARINO: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I have Catlin, Davidson, Brendel in my order. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. And this might be out of school. When you were conducting your surveys of
staff and directors-- I'm not sure if this topic was kind of top of mind at the time, but our transition plan of
our fleet from-- to electrified vehicles now is pretty much in the mind of the directors-- and a sense of
urgency there.
And that really is-- I think it speaks to item number two, the aging condition of fleet and infrastructure, and
also resistance to organizational change. And so I don't know if you've looked at the plan for these risks
as you go through your audit plan. But it seems to me that that might factor in a little bit, the-- our
transition plan and moving over to the electrified fleet. It's just a thought. I don't know if other directors
share that opinion, but it just came to mind. So.
MATT MARINO: We were made aware by several directors, as well as several staff, that that plan did
exist, that there is a strategic goal to get there. And then we were also made aware of some of the
potential challenges as far as evolving best practices and protocols on EV fleets, and safety, and that sort
of stuff, too. So it was an interesting, educational-- I learned a lot more than EV than I already knew. And
it was interesting. Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's great. I really appreciate that. It needs to be incorporated into those specific
audits. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] Director-ERIK DAVIDSON: So Dishell, you want me to go next?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah? Sure. So actually, just related to that-- that's a good thing. We can maybe put a
pin in that down the road when that plan does come together. Looking at those industry best practices
and safety preparedness seems like a good future topic for audit.
My question with the last two slides is just for clarification and for sake of the record. The primary input for
both severity and probability-- maybe the only input-- was from those interviews of staff and directors. And
coming up with those indices between the two, was there any additional work or any additional input on
the side of RubinBrown in terms of your interpretation of risk in terms of any looking at the industry? I just
want to make sure I'm clear on what the full set of inputs were to come up with the indices and the rating
that you have on this slide and the slide prior.
MATT MARINO: I would say the only sort of discretion we did try and-- we tried to summarize people's
words into categories. And so we tried to clarify. If somebody used a little different description for

something, then we tried to recharacterize it or redefine it so that we could either categorize it under one
risk or another so that we didn't miss-- we really tried to take the raw feedback and categorize it with that
interviewee's intentions. So-- but we did not-ERIK DAVIDSON: OK.
MATT MARINO: --go and do, like, research on other transit agencies or anything like that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Matt.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Mr. Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you. So first, just based on what I know, I think those top five risks seem very
logical to me. I was just trying to understand this heat map a little bit better. And looking at the x-axis, that
probability scale-- for example, the lifestyle trends is the lowest on the probability scale. And it's clearly
happened. And I'm just trying to-- is that rated lower based on uncertainty on how long it will continue, or
is there something else that's driving that rating?
MATT MARINO: It was really based on people's perception of that. I wouldn't be able to speak why some
people thought it was less heat than some of the other things, if that makes sense. But we did hear that-we acknowledge it did occur. But I think everybody's did not appear-- nobody's sure what the future holds,
I guess, is what I would say.
JIM BRENDEL: Sure. OK. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Chair. Mr. Brendel, yeah, thanks for the comments. I think that's a good
point. And actually, that kind of speaks to my question about inputs. I think something for this committee
and for our internal audit function, as we move forward from this point, is to really be also adding the input
of measuring. Because perception is good, and what we get from staff is good.
But as Mr. Brendel, you pointed out, these lifestyle changes have occurred. So one of the big questions is
how long they last. And I know there's debate among people in the transit industry as to whether we will
return to, quote, normal. And I think holding ourselves accountable and measuring that will-- should
inform how we examine those lifestyle issues in the future. So anyway, just something to comment on for
us to watch. And Mr. Brendel, thanks for the comments, because I think this is one of the limitations of
where there's perception versus what we can measure in terms of impact of fare box revenue, for
example.
MATT MARINO: Yes. thank you. And that's definitely why we are evaluating this feedback that we're
going to get from the Audit Committee as far as, here's where the risks are, but there could be one that is
more critical need in you all's expert opinion as well. And so that's why this body is important to get the
feedback and decide which ones we want to tackle sooner than later and which ones, while they might be
a key risk, may not be one that we feel like we need to do now. So any questions on the prior couple of
slides before I jump into the one that's got a lot of data on it?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please proceed.

MATT MARINO: OK. So here's the kind of-- not quite the raw data, but summarized data of risk
description and the overall scorecard. So you'll see the description on the left there. And then you see the
severity rating by management in the column on the top. And then board of directors is the one right
below that and then probability rating for management and directors. And then the risk preparedness of-is right there and then an overall rating risk.
I do want to note that we did continue the practice of weighting the different buckets of interviews. So
senior leadership severity and probability were rated at 50%. And management was rated at 30%. And
the directors were at 20%, the thought being that the management and staff would be a little more aware
of some of the specifics on probability and readiness-- a little less than directors, but not totally ignoring
director input. Any questions on that?
One thing we did look at-- just to kind of put it on the table since it was a question last time we did present
this-- is I did have my team take off those weightings, and not weight them, and just give everybody equal
rating. And I would say it did not substantially change the top risks. I think it reordered two of them, but
the top five still remained top five. Does that sound correct, Dave?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes, that's correct. I think that was-MATT MARINO: I just was interested in the data on that-- and see if we were skewing it. And so it ended
up not skewing it. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Matt, would you mind just sharing which two got flipped when you gave everyone
even weighting just because I know that I'm going to get asked at the Board meeting-MATT MARINO: Yes, I will-BOBBY DISHELL: --what the difference would be?
MATT MARINO: Dave will verify which two flipped and what the actual order of the unweighted ranking
was. And then we'll get back to you-- Dave, if you want to look that up while I continue presenting.
So this all goes into the writing of a scorecard. So obviously, the higher the overall risk rating, the higher
the risk is to the organization. So as you can see, aging fleet and infrastructure was at 10.25, where
public safety and security was a 10.16. So that's where public safety and security ended up being a little
bit below the aging condition of fleet and infrastructure on our overall risk rating. Here's the other ones
that we had. So we had no shortage of risks to evaluate and look at and decide for what we should
potentially do for an audit plan for this upcoming audit season for the internal audit team.
And so any questions on any specific risks or anything like that? I mean, I'm trying to focus on mostly the
top five, but I'm willing to discuss any of the other ones. Let me double check and make sure I'm seeing
no raised hands up.
So as I mentioned, we looked at severity, probability, and risk preparedness. As I mentioned earlier, we
did not have directors look at the preparedness part of it because you're not in the everyday part of the
operations of RT. You are very involved, but you're not necessarily making management decisions on a
daily basis.
We did get some additional risks from management. So when we sent out the survey, we did provide a
free form field so that people-- if they had thought of risks after the interview phase, but they came up

during the ranking phase, they were able to put that in there. And so here's the two risks that were offered
by survey respondents in the management group category.
And so we had none added for the director. So any questions on the risks before I go through the
proposed internal audit plan and talk about what we think we'd like to potentially audit?
BOBBY DISHELL: Go ahead. Oh, Mr. Haronik.
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, I was just going to add that the two that flipped, while we're talking about it, was
the-- with the weightings taken off, the public safety and security moved to number two while the aging of
the fleet moved to number three. So those were the two that flipped compared with the ratings.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to ask, is the plan, Matt, to bring this to the full
Board for approval and discussion?
MATT MARINO: I believe, if I remember correctly, the desire of the Board was for the Audit Committee to
make a recommendation of the audit plan. And then we would go to the full Board at a later date to get
the final sign offs on everything.
DOUG MACLEOD: OK. Thank you. And this now being an action item, Mr. Chair, I-- will we bring this
back, Matt, at a separate meeting to ask for action? Or is the intent of this meeting to get a head nod to
move it on to the full Board?
MATT MARINO: I would say we'll-- to get a head nod for recommended-- for recommendation but not
final approval. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. OK. Just from a timing standpoint-- Doug, thanks for raising that. When do you
anticipate-- just it took us a while to get this meeting on the calendar. So I want to make sure that a
procedural speed bump is not going to get in the way of your all's ability to launch. Because for us to put it
to the full Board, either three directors have to bring it and put it ourselves on the agenda, or we'd have to
vote it on the side or, to be honest, out of committee to put on the full agenda. So I just wanted to make
sure our timing-- that we're incorporating that into our thought process, recognizing the challenge of
bringing this group together for regular meetings.
MATT MARINO: I-- we-- I guess to speak to your first question, we have started the first audit that we had
received the go-ahead from the ad hoc committee prior to the even formal formation. So I'll provide a little
bit of an update on that. And that is the first audit on our proposed audit plan.
So we're going. We're going to start coming. We'll have some stuff to report in the near future. And so we
can do multiple audits at once, but we're not going to totally stand with no progress, if that makes sense.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: So as I mentioned a little bit ago, here is our proposed audit plan. This is based on the
enterprise risk assessment. We looked at what's on that risk assessment-- the ratings and so on. We're
looking for feedback from you all for either refining scope, looking at timing as far as what is highest
priority. You can take a pure risk-based approach, but you can also look at-- there might be less optimal
times to bother certain parts of operations. And so that can be part of the audit plan as well.

So the first one we did decide, as far as when we presented it to the ad hoc audit committee, is we were
going to do an Oracle Information Technology General Control review. So that is basically happening
now. We did send out the request list. We got the vast majority of our information back from the team at
RTD. And we have a kickoff meeting scheduled for next week. So that one is going down the road.
The next couple are some proposed ones that we would like to do. So the first one has to do with district
fleet management-- non-revenue generating assets. So this is really not your light rail cars or your buses.
But it's really all the other vehicles that we have. Review policies and procedures around the issuance of
the non-revenue vehicles. Review the agreements. And obtain a listing for the completeness and
accuracy of your records.
And also, determine if the maintenance program is happening on that specific part of the fleet. There-when we looked at it, we definitely saw that the overall aging of everything RTD has is a risk. And we
thought splitting it between the non-revenue generating and the revenue generating was a good place to
look at it.
So the other audit that we can consider would be district fleet management-- revenue generating assets.
So we'll be looking at your light rail, your heavy rail, your buses, and make sure that virtually the same
sort of thing is happening with an especial focus on the preventative maintenance and safety checks-that those are happening at the recommended intervals in order to minimize breakdowns and significant
safety issues. Any questions on the first couple?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Mr. Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you. I guess my main question on this is just, are you far enough along in the
planning, and in particular on the other items outside of the ITGC review, to have an idea on scope and
timing? How big are these projects? How many hours? And how long would they take? And maybe
you've already done that for the ITGC review with the ad hoc committee.
MATT MARINO: The ITGC is pretty much planned, and we have an idea. The other ones we did not
overscope, because we wrote them in pretty broad scopes because we wanted to really get feedback
from the Audit Committee on what you all think would be of a special use to RTD. We can get them fully
scoped out and written and get all that approved, but we wanted to make sure we got feedback. Because
honestly, the next one, Human Resources-- there's a lot you can look at there. And there's a lot of ways
you could look at that, if that makes sense.
JIM BRENDEL: That does. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Mr. Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Chair. So thanks for going through this here line by line. I like the split
between the non-revenue generating and the revenue generating fleet analysis. I think that makes a lot of
sense. A question is-- two questions on what you'd be thinking about in those audits.
One, would you foresee doing them simultaneously in parallel with each other, even though there's a
split? Because I imagine there will be some intersection both in terms of the staff that would be involved
and some of the infrastructure that supports the fleet. Or would you see doing them sequentially-- one
and then the other?

MATT MARINO: I think some of the limitations would be, we'd need to get feedback from staff on
whether, number one, it would be possible to do both at once. Because we get it, that generating the
information for an audit is not a small task. But I do agree there probably is some shared processes and
synergies between both the revenue and non-revenue generating parts of your fleet and infrastructure.
So.
JIM BRENDEL: OK. Yeah. And I think-- and thanks for commenting on that. It might-- I'd look to you and
staff to comment on what the right way to approach that is, but I think doing them at least close together
would help get a holistic view of what we're dealing with.
And then just my second question is, by way of process, since we're all-- we've got some new processes
here. And RubinBrown performing this function is still relatively new. Can you use this as an example-with fleet management-- of what type of skill set you'd bring in from the bench, how you would go through
this process in terms of what expertise you would bring from fleet analysis from potentially outside or
within RubinBrown to compare to what you're learning and gaining from our staff? Would you mind just
using these two or either one of them as an example of what your process would be for actually
performing the audit?
MATT MARINO: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Particularly from an expertise standpoint.
MATT MARINO: Yeah. So I would say-- we'll use the revenue generating fleet right now. There is
obviously different standards that we need to comply with to conduct specifically the preventative
maintenance. You have-- obviously your manufacturers are going to have recommended maintenance,
but also FTA and other organizations are going to recommend that maintenance occur as well as what
any internal policies might be. And so you'd really be comparing what is actually being done to what the
recommended practices would be for whatever type of vehicle it is and then reporting back, are we
adhering to recommendations; did we deviate; if we deviated, why did we deviate-- and make your
recommendation based on the findings of that, if that makes sense.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, that's helpful. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: So it would be really just searching out what we have and trying to report back so that
management can make decisions on, do we need to-- like, do we need a system that helps us track it
better? I mean, there could be multiple outcomes of the audit. I'd hate to hypothesize on too many of
them. But really, it's just measuring how are we adhering to what we must do and what we said we were
going to do. So. Dave, did you have anything you wanted to input on that?
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, I would just piggyback and-- that a lot of audit are going out, and finding what
policies and procedures are out there, and then auditing against that. And if there are none, for example,
on-- or they're inadequate, that alone is an audit finding that is discussed. And then that a lot of times
actually saves you from having to do a lot of testing if you can't even test against it. So-- and then that
would be something that would be maybe a follow-up audit the next year when new policies and
procedures are written.
MATT MARINO: So a great example of something that has been an emerging topic specific to buses is, if
a bus has a fentanyl or meth exposure on the bus, what is our cleaning process that we've defined? Is

there any federal guidelines that say, we must do this? And if-- did we do that, if that makes sense? And if
there are none, we would report saying there are none. So.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. That specificity-- thank you. That really helps. Appreciate it.
MATT MARINO: So we'd really be relying on what Federal Transit Administration and what RTD has put
out there as well as industry best practices from your other peer organizations of, hey, this is what
everybody-- APTA says you should be doing. So.
So that's kind of the first three. And then the next one has to do with human resources. So there's a lot of
different ways we can look at it. We can look at the existing HR policies and procedures, looking at how
recruitment, hiring, staffing, and all that happens as well as performance evaluations, terminations.
Really, all of the items bulleted in that bucket have a contributing factor to either attracting or retaining our
team.
And so we could just do an internal audit only on the recruitment part of it. We could also do one on the
retention part of it. And you could really break that into separate audits, if you wanted to, because there is
a ton of data in there. And both are incredibly important processes to RTD. And I think there's a lot to go
there. And it was one of our highest rated risks. So.
And then the last couple-- and I see-- oh, I saw Director Davidson's hand go up right when I was actually
minimizing. Yes?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks. Sorry. Just one point on the human resources. It's another area where I
think it would be good to look at data. Again, there's the perception of recruit and retain, but we also have
data on how our retention is changing over time, how our recruitment is changing over time. And we've
made changes in human resources. And there's also external industry factors.
So just another example of where I think the idea of splitting that between retention and recruitment is a
really good idea. And I also think it would be good for this committee to be presented with when it comes
time to plan this out, and certainly at least RubinBrown to be presented with, the data behind not just what
our current recruitment rates are and retention rates but also the delta and how they've been changing
over time, since there have been changes in that department.
MATT MARINO: Yeah. Yeah, definitely we can-- as we write the scopes, we can try and either address a
strategic goal-- if we want to get to a retention rate of a certain percentage, we can make sure that we
focus the audit to help get there. Or if there's a gap between the amount of time it takes to recruit
somebody-- if it takes an average of x days and we want to get to x minus 3, we can also get there. And
so we'll work on that. And so we'll work with management to align our audits to strategy and help move us
down the road of where the organization would like to go.
DAVE HARONIK: And it's interesting that you brought up the data, Director Davidson, because we had
kind of talked internally as a team that you could almost do a whole audit on how RTD is getting the data.
And is it from the right sources? But I think-- well, it didn't make it into the top, but you could almost
embed that into each audit. And we could to do a subset-- how this team is maybe getting their data, what
kind of KPIs are they working off of, are they the correct ones-- so all sorts of things that can be
embedded in the scope.
BOBBY DISHELL: That is a great point.

MATT MARINO: Yeah, that did come up in interviews-- that we're in a data world. And the faster you can
get the data, the better decisions you can make, especially if it's in a usable format. And so that is-- all
parts of RTD operations get data. And it's just, how is that data being used? And is it being used to drive
decisions, or is it being used after the fact? And that-- both are not wrong, but both have their pluses and
minuses.
Another one we thought we could look at just because it's usually one that a lot of recommendations
come out of and it's a focus for external monitoring, whether it be the federal government or other, would
be the procurement process-- look at the current purchasing and procurement policies, review
compliance with purchasing contract policies. We would be looking not only internal policies but how that
might align with federal government requirements for contracts and so on. It is part of your external audit,
where if it is a direct or material compliance requirement for that specific program, your auditor may audit
procurement. But this would be kind of a deeper dive and focused a little more broad-based rather than
just the federal procurement requirements. So that's one that we could look at.
And then the last one would be strategic sourcing initiatives-- how are we hiring our vendors, suppliers;
quality; long-term risk management. Are we too tied in with one supplier? Like, for example, if we go to an
EV fleet, is the replacement batteries or the entity that we're buying it for-- is there too much
concentration? And would that put us at risk? If other entities have problems, would RTD therein inherit
some of those problems because you inherent the concentration with them? And so we could look at that
as well.
Any questions, further discussion? Are we overall-- anything anybody likes better-- that you'd like us to
bring back much more detailed stuff? While we're not looking to re-rank it, but maybe prioritize it as far as,
let's try and get it done first, second, third for this year, and then leave the other ones on the list. I did not
see whose hands went up first.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. The procurement piece-- I just wanted to make a comment that CDOT got
blasted over their contracting processes by the state auditor. So we-- that may come to us because some
of our-- like, our CGMC and some of our processes are similar. So I just wanted to make that comment
that that's kind of out there right now.
MATT MARINO: Are you referring to that recent news article about how they awarded contracts to certain
contractors or whatever?
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. And it's mostly the CGMC and design-build contracts. And since we're not really
in a capital mode right now, it's probably not relevant. I just-- we just might be tagged along with those
comments. So I think it's a good thing to have procurement on the list. But it was just a comment, an
observation. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. So I have several comments. First of all, I guess what I'd like to say is
the risk assessment resonates with me. And for those members of the Audit Committee who aren't in
internal audit, I'll say, as a chief audit executive, the process that RubinBrown went through and some of
the questions that came up-- those I would all kind of back up from an internal audit perspective, from an
internal auditor, and say that that resonates with me.

Also, the risks that came up on the audit, on the risk assessment also resonated with me as a rider as
well. I went into this meeting thinking there's probably three things that I would see as a rider that I'd like
to see on this risk assessment. And I was pleased that they all showed up there.
The ridership-- and I'll give a couple of examples. The decline in ridership and the ability to retain staff-- I
probably get four or five emails a day from RTDs saying, we're sorry that A line is-- we're not going to be
running these routes because we don't have the second required crew member. As a rider, that's a little
bit of a put-off, especially if I want to just walk, and show up, and know that there's going to be a train
every 15 minutes-- to know that, well, maybe there's not. So I'd see that as a pretty big issue.
The other issue that I saw, experienced firsthand as a rider, is riding the W line from Golden, sitting down,
and having another rider come on with no shirt and a knife, and sheathing the knife as he sat down right
across from me as I'm working on my laptop computer. That's a little bit scary even to me-- I think to
anyone. And I think safety is a huge issue.
And I guess that's one of the things, going from the risk assessment to the audit plan, that I think really
needs to be on the audit plan, is something taking a look at safety, the safety department-- what are they
doing? How do they track data? How many people do they have on the different trains? What are they
doing that's working? What are they doing that's not working? How do they handle complaints?
I just think we can't ignore that given that it's either number two or number three, depending on how you
look at it. I know we did that ranking, but I think that one really needs to be on there. I will say, with one of
my clients that I serve as chief audit executive for, that's something the audit committee specifically asked
for, is a security audit-- and something that we're wrapping up right now using our in-house resources to
do that. So I think that's very important to have there.
The other thing-- the staff recruiting and retention-- again, I think that is huge. And I'm just experiencing it
from one line within the entire system. It's a pretty important line, I think-- the A line. But I'm sure it's all
over the place. So when it comes to the human resources audit, I know a lot that can be looked at in
human resources. I would like to get the opinion of the other Audit Committee members as to what they
think about maybe really focusing just on recruitment and retention and things that have an absolute
direct impact on that, because there's so much you could look at. And I do agree there's other things in
there that could impact it.
And the last comment I'll have is on the bifurcation of the fleet audits. It does seem like there would be
economies of scale of doing those together. Director Davidson, I know you see the split out between
them. I see the difference in revenue versus non-revenue as well. But from an internal audit perspective,
it seems like there'd be enough similarities between the two that it might make sense combining those
into one audit.
And then I guess one more comment, too-- when it comes to hours, I would also like to-- again, I see
what you're saying, Matt, about, we want to see what this plan is. And I appreciate you putting this out to
the Audit Committee and saying, let's get your feedback on this. And then once we have your feedback,
we can put together a bigger plan in hours. But I would like to see what level of effort are we assigning to
these in terms of hours-- how much time we're spending when we approve the audit plan.
I will also say that, from my experience as a chief audit executive, when we do an audit plan, it is pretty
high-level like this. Usually, we wait until we actually start the audit to go into a much more detailed work

program. So if anyone's saying, I want to know exactly what you're going to do on this, it's my experience
that we would wait until we start that audit. And I think that's common practice. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Mr. Olenberger, actually, I completely agree that a security
element here could appear and be a part of this plan given what we saw in the plan. So some -- or
assessment, I should say. So something to consider.
I just wanted to echo-- since Mr. Marino, you asked the question about how is this feeling. I think the fleet
management piece-- I'm very glad to see that this is here. I'm glad to see the bullets. And I think, Mr
Olenberger, to your point, I would look forward to getting a little bit more detail around scope on any of
these as we proceed forward. But I think a lot of what's here resonates. I think security and possibly
safety as a secondary piece should appear here. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the opportunity at a second bite at this apple. But I think this is a great
plan. And Mr. Olenberger, I really appreciated what you broke out as a chief audit executive and then as
a rider. And particularly in the safety and security piece, I think there needs to be some information
gathered from our customers. Because the risk universe was established with management, and internal,
and then board of director pieces, but I do think that we have a customer component to the safety and
security piece. So I really appreciate your view, Mr. Olenberger, because that, I think, puts it in a really
good perspective.
But I think this plan is really good. And I'm anxious to see some of the scopes further developed as we
move forward. But at this point I think there's quite a bit of detail. And I really appreciate the effort that you
guys put into it at RubinBrown. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: So Director Catlin, I will exercise a bit of chair privilege. I think, from where I sit,
thinking about what I know is going on at the Board, there's sort of big movement afoot right now in safety
and security with RTD's respective line. And to me, it seems not the highest or best use of resources to
audit safety and security now if we're about to materially alter what safety and security looks like as a
system.
Similarly, right-- was it only last year or maybe the year before where we negotiated a new collective
bargaining agreement, which is going to directly-- and have a new chief legal officer, both of which
directly impact that HR function. And so, for me, prioritizing the HR audit sort of earlier makes sense
because there's no major shift coming. Right?
We sort of-- Director Catlin alluded to it, but we are confident that a fleet transition plan is going to come.
Right? And so for these audit matters, I want to be cautious of auditing things that we know are about to
go through a material change. And what value does the audit have if the response is going to be, well, we
just changed all of this, how do you know-- why don't we give it a chance to work?
And the one part-- so for me, that sort of prioritizes human resources as well as physical assets. And we
got-- the Board got an email this morning, which is now public, right? But I want to make sure that assets
include things like facilities, things like the rails themselves and not just the buses and the trains. We had
an incident this morning on the-- George, I'm on a call. Sorry.

We had an incident on the E line this morning where there was a track shift and the front wheels came
off, is my understanding. Right? And so that's our second-- I don't know if you'd call this a derailment or
not. But I'll say it's the second time that a train has left the tracks, even if this one was much more minor,
in the last four to six weeks-- maybe two to four weeks-- and third time in the past year. Right?
And so, to me, the physical generating assets and the HR are where-- we might be seeing the buses and
trains start to shift with that fleet transition plan. But the HR side we're not expected to see any material
shifts. We just did a material shift. It would be good to know how that works.
And the other thing, I guess, is a question-- is, how do you or do you incorporate prior audit
recommendations or APTA third-party recommendations into your audit? Is that something that could be
incorporated that you are auditing against, right? If, at the board level, we've been told, yes, we're
implementing the APTA recommendations, yes, we're implementing the state recommendations, is sort of
auditing not just your scope but auditing against, hey, you said you were going to go do this, have you
done it-- is that something that's included or could be included?
MATT MARINO: Yes. So we would definitely appreciate the feedback. And that was all great points. We
definitely appreciate your feedback on maybe prioritizing resources when we have either impending major
strategic changes that might very differently color how it looks going forward on how things are done. We
definitely-- part of an internal audit's function is following up on prior findings, whether they were
generated from an internal audit, the external audit, or other agencies.
So to the extent we can incorporate those in audits and measure against what we were asked to do
differently, and whether we said we were going to do it differently, and how did we adhere to that
recommendation-- could most definitely be incorporated. And that would be part of our scoping of the
project-- is, OK, there's the must-do or the policies, and then there was recommendations that maybe
weren't in policy but needed to be in policy, and that sort of stuff. So we would definitely, to the extent that
we have feedback from agencies, try to incorporate that. Did I miss anything, Dave, on that?
DAVE HARONIK: No. That's exactly it. So you can see the Rational column there. As we get into year
two and three of the audit plan, now we have more information. We know the entity more. We know the
different audits that have come from other organizations that have come down. So all of those will feed
into that. And all the feedback that we've got even from this meeting is great and very helpful-- just for
example, like where to prioritize. So that's great feedback.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I'll just say in regards to your comment about major changes coming
through-- so there's two schools of thought when it comes to internal audit and major changes in the
process. And I'm not saying one is right and the other is wrong. It really depends on the organization
where people are with things.
So for the example of safety and a major change coming through, sometimes internal audit is asked to
come in at the forefront of that and say, OK, we know we want to change this. Let's send internal audit out
there to give us a hit list of everything that's wrong, everything that we need to change so that we can
incorporate that into the changes that we're doing.
The other school of thought would be, let's wait. Let's get the changes in place. Perhaps we know what
we want to do, and we think this is going to fix everything or greatly improve it. Let's wait until we have it

in place for six months or a year or so and then bring internal audit in to say, how did we do on our
changes?
So I would say, in terms of what's the right thing to do, it probably depends on what RTD has already
done with that. Have they already looked at a whole lot of data? And I'm using public safety as an
example. Have they already looked at a whole lot of data? Do we think we know what the problems are?
Do we think we have a good plan in place?
If so, yeah, let's pump the brakes on a safety audit or a security audit and audit it after it's been in place
for a while. If not, if we think we could use the input of an internal audit and surveys-- perhaps customer
surveys or taking a look at historical incident reports and seeing what the plan is going to be, then maybe
that's something that could be done upfront. So just putting out both aspects of it.
And also, to address your comment about infrastructure in terms of preventative maintenance as well,
well, a potential that could be done with the two fleet audits is make it a preventative maintenance audit of
both. Because right now, these are focused on rolling stock-- buses, trains. But we could also have it
include infrastructure. We could have it exclude, like, the actual building, and rooftop units, and that kind
of stuff if we want to focus on infrastructure assets as opposed to office buildings and such. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I really-- thank you. I really appreciate that insight. And I think-- I'm going to go
back on what I said earlier, right, which is I think safety and security is probably something that is going to
ever evolve. Our code of conduct is something "Respect the Ride" is going to ever evolve. But if memory
serves me, in early '21 or late '20, we did have an APTA peer review of our safety-- or our lack thereof.
And to me-- that was in '21. And it's now '23. Then it makes sense that some of those changes are
implemented. And it probably does make sense to do a safety and security audit incorporating the peer
review that was done to see how we're doing. Are we moving at the clip we need to move at? Are we
prioritizing the right items? Is this having the impact we thought it was going to have? So maybe seeing
safety on there makes sense.
And I think safety is also physical safety, which some of that preventative maintenance, right-- I think I
haven't got the feedback yet because this just hit the wire this morning, but it's absolutely reasonable for
someone to say, you've had three trains in the past year have issues. What are you doing? Right? That's
a safety challenge-- not in the same physical safety as the other people on the train with me, but that's a
sort of baseline table stage safety issue.
MATT MARINO: And correct me if I'm mischaracterizing, but I believe RTD even manages the safety in
those kind of two different buckets-- safety of how our assets are operating and then actual public safety-i.e., your policing sort of safety thing. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, exactly. And on the physical assets, we just in the past six months, probably,
approved the new DTAS public transit asset. Directors Catlin or Davidson, I don't know if you remember
what the [INAUDIBLE] stand for. But-PEGGY CATLIN: Emergency safety plan.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, General Counsel Snyder. I think that's an element to incorporate as well,
right? And I believe that's submitted for federal purposes for how we're doing.

MATT MARINO: So I guess to clarify safety, which sort of safety do we want to look at-- or both-- for a
potential audit?
BOBBY DISHELL: I would be inclined to say both but defer to the other-- just because I think both hit at
some of these top ERM items and some of the-- certainly the top three. But defer to others as well. Yeah,
does someone have a-JOHN OLENBERGER: I would say both. I think they can be done as separate audits, though. I think you
can do the physical security type-- when you think of officers on trains, that kind of stuff-- as one and the
safety of a train leaving the tracks as part of the fleet preventative maintenance type stuff. Because I think
a lot of it-- and infrastructure. So I would say both.
MATT MARINO: We could generate-- we could broaden the revenue generating to be fleet and
infrastructure that supports the revenue generation-- so i.e., your track, all the stuff that goes with the
track-- the lines, all that. So.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I'll also say that the people within management of RTD is going to know better
than I am in terms of the revenue versus non-revenue fleet. So maybe it does make perfect sense to
really do two separate audits. It's just when I looked at it from a third-party perspective, I would have
combined them because I'm picturing the preventative maintenance being largely the same. They
probably use the same software to track PMs and stuff. So that's why I thought that, although they are
separate, there'd be a lot of overlap.
BOBBY DISHELL: Counselor, I see you're having some reaction.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. And I defer to Doug, too, obviously because he oversees asset
management. But when we're talking about our revenue vehicles, we're, of course, talking about our light
rail vehicles, our buses. Right? When we're talking about non-revenue vehicles, we're talking about the
sedans that can be checked out and used by employees to get from meeting to meeting or to construction
sites. Those non-revenue vehicles also include things like our snow removal vehicles, or our pickup
trucks, or construction. So it's really-- they're pretty different assets. And I'll defer to Doug if he wants to
talk a little bit more about those asset classes.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, that is correct, Melanie, definitely. So yeah, I would consider those-- probably
looking at those separately. You have ones that are exclusively used by RTD employees. And then we
have other ones that are used by customers and the general public that are out public-facing. So good
point, Melanie. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Yeah, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, think. This is unrelated. So I guess I don't want to get us off track from the fleet
management. But thank you for the additional info. I just wanted to make a comment with something that,
Director Dishell, you brought up with regards to recent events on our rail. One thing I think we could
revisit, I think-- I just want to be mindful of the fact that we're a little preemptive right now and premature
in understanding exactly where we are.
But I would suggest that down the road, with the fact that this committee exists and we have a better
construct in place for audit, we do submit corrective action plans on safety events and safety-related
events. Those could be used for future audits much the same way that the APTA peer review you were
referring to, Chair, would. So I just wanted to make that comment and just be mindful of where we are.

Again, I didn't want to get us off track on the fleet management. I think the idea of doing a preventative
maintenance-focused one is potentially interesting, but it does sound like some conversations with staff,
from what General Counsel shared and Mr. MacLeod shared, might help inform what the right scope of
that audit might be. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. And thank you for raising that. I think that's important context to keep
in mind, which is root cause and those types of items-- and the fact that I know that sometimes those are
submitted under seal, and sometimes they're not. I think there's probably a few things to unwind on
whether or how we would be able to allow audit to use that if they're still under seal. I don't think we need
to resolve that today, but it's something we will need to think about respectfully. Matt, do you and your
team have what you need from us on this topic? Are there any other comments sort of on the proposed
plan?
MATT MARINO: I just think the only would just-- prioritizing. I think I'm hearing pretty clearly that
maintenance, preventative maintenance, and possibly the recruiting and retention are pretty high on
priority. Procurement is pretty low. So that one we'll probably pull off the plan and maybe put the safety
elements that don't relate to preventive maintenance on-- the vehicles or stuff like that. We'll maybe
replace that with a safety-focused one due to the risk assessment and the feedback from this committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Dave, do you have everything you needed? Or is there anything-- any
questions you needed to clarify before we close discussion on proposed audit and come back with some
more refined scope, and timing, and budgets, and all that sort of stuff?
DAVE HARONIK: No, I don't need anything else. You've been great.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Can we just discuss next steps? I guess, Matt and Dave, when do you plan to
have a revised audit plan? Will that have the proposed hours for each audit? And the other thing that I
wanted to see that we typically put in an audit plan is non-audit hours as well-- like, time for follow-up.
So whatever your hours budget is for the year-- to say, here's how much we're going to spend on each
audit. We're going to have x number of hours for administrative. We plan to do follow-up audits-- maybe
not in year one. Maybe there's time to investigate hot line calls. I don't know what in addition to the audit
plan is going to be in the scope of internal audit, but these are items that would normally be part of an
internal audit.
MATT MARINO: We-JOHN OLENBERGER: And I guess just timing-- to see when are we going to come back, when are we
going to-- I know, from my experience, usually the audit committee will approve the annual audit plan.
And maybe, with this group, we recommend to the Board that it be approved. So I guess just things like
that-- technical issues. How are we going to move forward?
MATT MARINO: We will schedule another Audit Committee meeting here in the near term so that we can
kind of be updated on two things. We'll need to get any findings from our external audit and the findings
from Plante Moran. And then we'll bring back refined scope with what we would propose budgets-- not
only for the proposed audits, but also any administrative functions we need to do.

And when we look at the scope and timing, if it gets us into early '24, it might be more of a 18-month audit
plan, just realistically, to make sure that we have a plan laid out so that we can continue auditing and
providing feedback to the organization. So that's how I'm envisioning it happening if this-- as long as that
aligns with what you're wanting. Since we're kind of in kickoff mode, I'd like to have as big a plan as we
can so that we all know what we're doing and we can keep doing what we need to do. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think that makes sense from my perspective. I was actually going to raise
looking-- yes, near-term, we get this plan approved. Longer-term, Doug, I think your team prepares
budget in October-ish. So-- for the '24 budget.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. Yes, September.
BOBBY DISHELL: September? So sort of late summer, we'd-- it would probably be helpful if, late
summer, we had an idea so that Doug can incorporate that into his sort of tighter numbers. There was a
separate question, a TABOR question, which is a question for council, which is, are we allowed to have
an 18-month audit plan, recognizing it might be obligating dollars beyond a fiscal year? Or do we have to
do sort of a short plan and then approve the next plan a year later just to make sure we're complying with
those sort of requirements? I know contracts are often writ, but say they automatically renew and things
of that nature. But I just wanted to make sure that we're aware of that risk as well.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, and I-- I'll let Doug weigh in as well. I don't see a TABOR issue with having an
18-month audit plan. I mean, we're going to be-- I understand kind of the concern of going year over year,
but the Board is going to appropriate a budget for each year. And that will get recognized. The
RubinBrown cost will get recognized in each year budget. So I don't think there'll be an issue there.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Wonderful.
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, and I would add that one way around that is to kind of have that 18-month plan.
And then you kind of pull audits from that. And if you need to have, here's your set number of hours for
the one-year plan-- and you can always pull something that's 14 months down the road if timing doesn't
work. Because there's going to be lots of issues around that-- moving audits back and forth. So.
MATT MARINO: And your audit plan would be-- while we're your contracted audit firm right now, it's still
your audit plan. And still, the risks are-- so if our contract was not renewed, you still would want to figure
out how to audit that in the future if, for some reason, there was a lapse between service provider. But the
risk is still the risk. And we need to manage that risk. So the other thing that kind of binds our audit plan
would be our contract. And there are some measurables in there that we will adhere to and make sure
that we're aligning with the scope that's lined out in there as well. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. So it sounds like-- before we adjourn, the next steps-- Matt, you and your
team are going to come back to us here in the near term with sort of a more detailed 18-month audit plan
that'll get us through fiscal year '24. We'll then sort of prospectively be looking for regular audit updates
from internal audit, as this committee also should be receiving external audit information here shortly. And
then probably starting in Q1 '24, we'll be operating from a place of both managing external audit and
managing the ongoing internal audit plan while also looking at the FY25 recommended audit plan as well.
MATT MARINO: Correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: Fantastic.

MATT MARINO: And I'll work with the Board Office to get calendar invites out kind of well out into the
future now that we kind of have our cadence and we know how this is going to go so that we can get it to
Board packets on time and everything that we need to do to just manage the process at the district to
make sure that we're following the pre-existing process but being transparent throughout the process. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Are there any other questions? Other matters, questions,
comments? OK. Seeing none, the Audit Committee is adjourned at 11:16 AM on April 6. Have a
wonderful rest of your day. And I'll talk to y'all soon. Thanks, everyone.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Bye.

