Dec 12 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: --of the record. I will note that we have in attendance, in person, First Vice
Chair Catlin, Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Secretary Walker, and on the telephone, if
you would please confirm, we have Treasurer Cook, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Correct, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And we also have the Executive Manager of the
Board, Ms. McManus in the room. Director Menten is in the room. And our AGM for Safety and
Security and Chief Security Officer, Mr. Mike Meader is in the room. No one else is in the room.
Is there anyone else on the line? We'll take that as no one else being on the line at this point in
time. That may become relevant later.
In any event, the meeting having been called to order, the first thing we have is the December
Board Meeting agenda review. You've been provided with a copy of the proposed agenda for our
full Board Meeting on Tuesday, December 17. And I'd like to know, at this time, are there any
changes, comments, questions, inquiries relative to the agenda for next Tuesday's Board
Meeting? Hearing none, may I then have a motion to approve the agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a second. Any discussion on the motion to approve the agenda?
Hearing none, would all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye?
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none opposed. That is a unanimous vote in
favor of the agenda. All right, we have some matters for our other matters, as you might imagine.
There are four different things that I think we need to talk about.
So let me ask first, does any member of the Executive Committee have any other matter that they
want to bring up at this time, noting that we will spend some time talking about the status of the
interim General Manager search, the question of the non-disclosure agreements and
confidentiality, the Board/SLT retreats and the possibility, should the committee approve, of an
executive session to discuss various details concerning the executive search.
So any other matters that any other Director wants to bring forward that I haven't addressed? All
right, let's begin with-- actually, let's go kind of backwards on this. The Board/SLT retreats, I've
waited until the Executive Manager kind of [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]

to us at this time are what the dates are that we have in the calendar, because we've already
calendared these. And I just want to bring them to your attention, because we also have gone out
for RFP and procurement on facilitators. So Ms. McManus, what are the dates that we have in
February and March?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the SLT retreat is scheduled for February 1st.
DOUG TISDALE: The Board retreat.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The Board retreat.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And the Board/SLT retreat is scheduled for March 7th.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and that's just a reminder. Now we did send out an RFP relative to the
facilitator for this. We did get a response back from Susan Spero & Associates. And as I
understand it, she's the only one who submitted a response back. Is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So unless things change, the Executive Manager for the Board
office has already sent out the procurement request for that, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, and I just wanted to add-- this is Barbara McManus, Executive
Manager, that we did reach out for responses to the other folks as to why they didn't respond to
the RFP. One changed their email on their website, and so they never got it. One, we did not get
a response from, even asking. And two folks basically said that they can't do it within our
budget, for they didn't have the resources for the budget that we were utilizing.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: So any other questions about the Board Retreat or the Board SLT Retreat for
Ms. McManus? Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would be interested in seeing the RFP.
DOUG TISDALE: Hang on a second, Director Cook. We've got Director Catlin with a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd be interested in seeing the RFP and the scope work, just for curiosity.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have it right here. You can see it right after this meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. Madam Treasurer, you had a question.

SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you, Chair. So just pointing out, it's such an unusual time. First of
all, we'll be working with an interim GM, probably. And secondly, we have had all of these
events in 2019. I think the question has come up previously about whether or not we want to be
going on business as usual to look at 2021 goals, whether or not we might need to revisit our
2020.
So I'm sure that Susan Spero is [INAUDIBLE] how we work with her, but I think that, soon
here, we'd want to work with her and the Board Office to talk about-- and the Board to talk about
how we approach this particular set of retreats, because it seems to me that we need to manage
them differently. Or we might consider doing things differently this time, just considering how
unusual the time is.
DOUG TISDALE: It's a good observation, and I know that next year's Executive Committee,
whoever is on it, will have to address that, yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook, I'd also like to add that Director Catlin has asked to
look at the scope of work. It's not that specific. Yes, the end goal is specific, but how we get to
that end goal is not specific and can be changed, I think, within the way that the RFP was
written.
John is researching right now, but I don't know if it's in the bylaws, or I don't know if it's in the
RTD Act, but something enables us to have made a decision by the end of first quarter.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well, I guess what I'm suggesting is just However, the Executive
Committee is constituted after January 7th, I'm suggesting this. Let's plan to have that committee
working with Susan Spero, in consultation with the Board about how we'd want to structure and
what we want to be outcomes of that process. Would that be OK?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It would be fine, but it might not be within her financial scope, in
which case, we would have to do a change in the procurement.
SHELLEY COOK: It might be a constraint for us. That's a good point. I think it's something we
can think of, yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair, if I might?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. When we were in the Board discussion about reducing service, I
brought up at that time that we might want to revisit our goals and also our performance
measures, because they could likely not be achieved with the reduction in service. So I think it
would be appropriate to revisit them.

DOUG TISDALE: And again, that's a topic that the whole Board will appropriately address and
consider when presented with it, which, as of this point would be starting in January sometime.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we could also have the opportunity to address what comes out of
those discussions at the Board Retreat in February, when everybody is involved and everybody is
engaged. I'm going to speak about it a little bit later, but I just think that it's important that I need
to point out how rigorous the schedule and how engaged this Board needs to be in terms of time
and decision making from now through and beyond the first quarter of 2020.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Question, what was the budget? What's the budget for Susan to
put this on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: $25,000 or-- and that's what our cap was.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And she came in a little lower than that, and that's for both retreats.
DOUG TISDALE: And just for the benefit of the treasurer, let me note that Director Guissinger
has joined us now and is also present in the room. Director Menten, did you have a question
about the Board SLT and Board SLT Retreats?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. First question is, with the firm that changed their email and never
did get the-- submit the invitation, who was that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The Charney Group.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then I just recalled back when we did the outreach for doing the
retreats when I was on the Executive Committee, and we had some negotiating power, really,
with I believe it was Susan Spero. Is that possible? I'm just asking. There were some things that
we were able to trim. It started probably about $12,000, and we got it down to $7,000 or $8,000
for at least one retreat. Were those continued or they just kind of went to the max?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, we didn't go to the max. I don't think we got it down that low, as
you're recalling, but I'll have to look back at that. I recall it was around $11,000 or $12,000, and
times two, that's right where we are.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, $22,000.
NATALIE MENTEN: And the $25,000, that included the Denver Athletic Club and catering for
the events, or that's just Susan Spero?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We manage that, and I actually am looking for another site this year. I
think we need a refresh. But in past years, we haven't been able to get any competitive bids that
are as low as Denver Athletic Club, which is why we've always continued there.

DOUG TISDALE: So your comment is that we are not committed to the Denver Athletic Club at
this time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: But it remains the only one that we have found that is cheap enough for us to
go to?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Other questions about the Board Retreat on February 1 and the
Board/SLT retreat on March 7?
JEFF WALKER: Quick question.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: I don't remember the gentleman's name, Wheatman or Wittmer, Wiedman, the
gentleman who spoke first at the Board Retreat last year. Will he be part of it this year?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can request it if that's what the Board likes. I mean, I was
planning on bringing him or someone else in to speak in the beginning about governance.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If we have suggestions, we can do that. But keep in mind that we
don't really have budget for it, and most folks want to be paid.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. [CHUCKLES] And the reason I was asking was because there were
some comments last year that made it sound like some Board members, at least, didn't find that
useful. So I was wondering if that was part of it this year.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the full Board would make that decision, and I personally feel
that it's useful, even on a refresher basis.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How much do we pay the Denver Athletic Club for the use of
their building and stuff?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd have to look that up.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I have a question. I know we go off site because it's a different
environment. But we have property at-- We lease space down at the other end of the mall. And
would it cost us anything to reserve the 19th floor of the Civic Center?

BARBARA MCMANUS: So none of the resources have any support on a weekend at Civic
Center at all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Support like what?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Like IT support if we needed something like that, like the heat's off
usually.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What about the new Communications building? They have a
really nice conference room.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We looked at some of the new facilities. They don't really have areas
for breakout rooms because it's a working day for them, so they're there. But John and I have
been looking at different things internally and where we have relationships. We've been working
with Adrian Mabry, because we have some relationships.
Like the room at the museum that we had the employee event, that room would be perfect. But I
think that it's-- I don't know if our hours fit into it. He's checking on that for me, because the
museum is open, and it's a big day on Saturday. Sometimes they have workshops.
Also, we'd have to use an outside caterer that's attached to that facility. And traditionally, that
brings the price up quite a bit.
MIKE MEADER: Way up.
SHELLEY COOK: So if I could add one thing, if we do go with the Athletic Club, it might help
Board members that if they do park in the garage at the facility, it's a $25 charge. And I know
we're trying to save money out of those budgets. So I think they can get a better rate if they park
across the street for a daytime rate.
BARBARA MCMANUS: When we rent the room, we get parking included.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, yeah, that's not the case for the retreat. Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I had to pay $25 to get out of that garage last time, but maybe I
didn't say the right words to them.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right, yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I'm sorry, that would be my communication fault. I didn't realize
that. I thought we announced it in the retreat, but perhaps we didn't.
SHELLEY COOK: And then just for Lynn Guissinger and Jeff Walker's benefit, I was
suggesting-- I don't know if we'll be able to do it, but it sounds like the process is already well

underway, but knowing Susan, she's pretty adroit in handling these retreats. But might we talk
with her after the first of the year, whenever the Executive Committee is then to regroup,
considering how unusual a time it is.
We'll have an interim GM. We'll still be focusing on the service cuts and other changes that were
prompted this year, unexpectedly. So I thought it might-- and Peggy, previously and today, has
suggested that we want to look at whether or not we want to go always focusing on the 2021, or
if we want to do an update, for example, of 2020 goals in light of all those things. So I still hope
we can take that up after the first of the year.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well when the General Manager did put in his retirement papers, we
did some communication updates to that RFP to reflect that it would be a little bit of a different
temperature this year because of some of the changes and the goals that were happening in 2020.
But we can certainly approach that again after the first of the year.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Barbara.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, are we concluded, or is there any desire to have further discussion
about the Board retreat?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was just going to offer the Stapleton Foundation's boardroom
for the retreat, if he'd be interested in that. You can think about it. And we'd be happy to provide
the catering as well, so just think about it, if that's something you would consider.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. I don't know that we would be able to take that generous gift, but
thank you for offering. And we can talk about the space that there is there. And we can also
discuss with the Directors its location, because we also always try to get a location that we can
get to mass transit if needed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cool.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Any other thoughts on the retreats? OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I? I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would be fine with downstairs. Just no need to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Any other thoughts on the Board Retreat or the Board/SLT retreat?
OK. Then relative to the status of the search for an interim General Manager to date, first, before
we get to that, because some of this is going to entail potentially an executive session here in a
few minutes, and that relates to the question of, has everybody signed the NDA (non-disclosure
agreement)?

PEGGY CATLIN: Not yet, I will.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Barbara, if you would please give her one now so that we can then-yeah, let's go ahead and distribute that to her now. OK. We need to have these signed in order to
have the discussion. Has everybody else in the room signed the NDA? All right. Good. Thank
you.
OK. And not that this is a confidential discussion, but it's just some housekeeping to make sure
that we've got those in place, because one of the things that we want to do is just give you the
barest of raw Information. At this point, I don't have any more than you are about to. And that is,
can you tell us what the status is in terms of letters of interest and resumes we've received.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have nine applications, total, to date.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so nine applications have been received so far. Everyone is again-Because if you recall the resolution that the Board adopted in this regard, every Board member is
also asked to socialize this information. So for example, by way of illustration, I have posted it
on LinkedIn and Facebook and Twitter, and actually already had responses to those postings, and
just said, please, follow the instructions that are set forth in the materials that I put on social
media.
So everybody is encouraged to get the word out. Recall that today is December 12, which means
that we have nine more days, and that's it. So that's kind of important for us to follow up on.
SHELLEY COOK: Pardon, Chair, didn't we get December 23?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I forgot to say that night.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's December 23.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, 23rd, I'm sorry, yes, OK, 11 more days. Sorry. Thank you. Yeah, I know
it's the Monday, I just got-- and I think it's the-- is it the last day of Hanukkah?
PEGGY CATLIN: First day of Hanukkah.
DOUG TISDALE: I saw that on my calendar too. Thank you for the correction. Yes, I wouldn't
want the record to be misdirected. It is December 23, close of business, 5:00 PM Mountain
Standard time, on Monday, December 23. And that's been promoted vigorously by our staff, by
the Communications department, and it's available on the website. And each of you are
encouraged to get that information out.
In addition to that, if we can now circulate to everyone, if we haven't already, the other materials
that you have there relative to General Counsel's admonitions to us. General Counsel had
prepared in 2009, and he just reminded us a couple of days ago about these materials, and sent an
email to Barbara and to the Chair, asking that we refresh people's recollections on both the
confidentiality and the openness of various parts of this process.

And the reason that we particularly bring it up now-- and you're not expected to read that now.
I'm just telling you that's something that you need to have as part of your packet so you know
what's going on. If you would, make a point of going through that as well, but it leads to my
suggestion to you at this time that it would be appropriate for us to have an executive session
today.
Now I recognize that it puts us in a tough situation with the Treasurer, because-- and Madam
Treasurer, just so you know, it certainly has nothing to do with you, but we never allow anyone
to participate in executive session by telephone. And that's for the simple reason that we have no
way of controlling who's on the telephone. And that's the issue that we face. And that's the
problem.
But let me tell you-- and the committee may decide they don't want to-- but if we do have an
executive session, obviously, any Director who's here can participate in the executive session.
The purpose behind it, other than our meeting on December 27th, which is intended to go over to
the candidates, one of the things that we have to do before then-- and I'll tell you why it has to be
before then-- is to come up with interview questions for candidates.
We have uniform questions that are asked. Every state agency, when they hire someone, has
uniform questions. They do that so that you don't deliberately tailor questions to candidates to
favor certain candidates you're interviewing. So the state practice is to have uniform questions.
We have found the questions that were used in 2009, and Barbara has printed those out. And we
have those available to look at, and also the scoring sheet forms that we have that obviously are
paired with those questions.
The reason we need to talk about that before the meeting on December 27th is that we don't want
people to start tailoring the questions and the scoring criteria based upon the people that they see.
You can see how insidious that would be, that you would say, ooh, I want Fred to get this job, so
I'm going to make sure we ask this question of everybody, because I know only Fred has done
this. Or I want to see Barney get this job, and so I'm going to tailor the question that way.
That's why you view the questions and the evaluation sheets, the scoring sheets, in advance, so
you don't get-- bias or prejudice insert itself into the process once you know who these people
are, because we will, as of Christmas Eve, know who all these people are. So that's the reason.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair, can I?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so, first of all, it's a very high level appointment, and in my past in
hiring [INAUDIBLE], we have gotten legal advice that allows some leeway, so that if somebody
suggests something or there's something in their background that is of particular interest, you
could you ask about that of that one person and not somebody else.
So I'm hoping that if we do go in this executive session-- I understand I'm excluded-- that we
bear in mind this is very high level. I think that the rules of the game for the positions that we

hire otherwise don't apply as rigidly is my understanding, and that we allow some flexibility in
questioning people. Maybe we have a core set of questions that the people we're interviewing
have a chance to expand upon or bring in new information based upon prior responses.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I may?
DOUG TISDALE: And Madam First Vice Chair, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I've been involved in a number of interview processes for the executive
management team at CDOT. And you do have your base questions, but there are always followup questions for clarification that could address what you're talking about, Shelley.
DOUG TISDALE: And I can also share that for the Department of Law with the State of
Colorado, which I've gone through, they have the same process, where it's a set of uniform
questions, but of course-- and you are absolutely right, Madam Treasurer, that there is a desire on
the part of everyone to follow up on things. And as First Vice Chair points out, that's done, and
that's my experience as well. Ms McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to add that there'll be an opportunity for any of the
candidates that are in the interview process to ask their own questions that could prompt answers
that would help the Directors in making a decision.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. So I think it's a very valid point, but for those of us who've been
involved many different times with state searches, and it's just one of those things that we're sort
of stuck with, because we are a state agency. And we must conform to those practices.
All right, and I'm sorry, by the way, I didn't start off with one thing, and this, as I said, I feel very
bad that the treasurer is not here. The reason we do these two particular discussions in executive
session is we don't want to broadcast to the public, oh, by the way, here are the questions you're
going to be asked. It's kind of like cheating on a test. And here are the evaluation criteria that we
have.
When we get to the point of proposing an executive session, I'll give you the language, but the
statute, in fact, talks about-- and I'm sorry, the Sunshine Law. The Sunshine Law relates to when
you can have an executive session when you're involved in an executive search. And the point is,
most of these things must be done in public, but some things can be done in executive session.
And specifically, setting up questions and the criteria for scoring are things that we can do in an
executive session, once we call for it. And that's the reason.
SHELLEY COOK: But Chair, is this for scoring for our preliminary screening or is this scoring
generally? And if it's generally, if it's what the Board is going to use, I think we ought to ask
them for input.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that's an excellent point. We're beginning with the first-- there has to be
a first cut. A journey of 1,000 miles begins with a single step. So this committee has to start out.
One thing that we don't want to do, unless of course the Executive Committee feels differently, is

to say to the Board, OK, we have no idea how to process this. Why don't we all share thoughts,
and maybe by March we'll have a process.
SHELLEY COOK: So if you would, if there is any leeway in establishing the meeting later so I
could participate, I'd love that. But I understand that there may not. Did we have items on our
agenda after this that we could pick up before I have to ring off?
DOUG TISDALE: I have asked, and we can ask again. Is there any other-- and actually, I may
turn to Mr. Meader, who is here too, because he may have some things to share with us. And I
will note, just for the sake of the record, Mr. Meader did a terrific job at the Leadership Academy
graduation this morning, standing in for General Manager Genova, offering his congratulations
to all and his thanks to all for their participation. And he was very well received, even more well
received and the keynote speaker, I think. So that was really a terrific thing.
So let me ask first of committee members, anything else before I ask for an executive session,
any other subject? Let me ask the committee members first.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm so sorry. Do we have a breakdown for the internal versus external
applicants at this point? I'm seeing that in the private Executive Committee Meeting, we had
talked about having that information at this point.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I think that's right. Yes, go on ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we have nine applications, one local, six out of state, and two that
a decision will have to be made on because they did not complete the criteria that was requested
in submitting an application.
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, that wasn't the question that the Treasurer asked.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry, but that's part of the breakdown. Sorry. [CHUCKLES]
DOUG TISDALE: The question is, how many internal and how many external?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No internal.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Then, Chair, something that Barbara raised was important. I think we
did say that everything would be turned over to the full Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And it will be. And it will be.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I'm sorry. Did somebody say something contrary to that, Treasurer,
because I didn't hear it?

SHELLEY COOK: Oh, she said we had to decide if we were going to assess a couple of them,
because they didn't evidently meet all the criteria that we had laid out.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: And then, before I ring off-- and I don't do this enough-- I wanted to say
thanks to everybody who helped put that together on a moment's notice. I know it took yeoman's
work, a lot of extra time and organization. So thank you, Barbara, for getting that handled and
also to the folks in the Comms team as well.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're very welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and I do this because now there's confusion. It might have been
introduced into the record. Let me just make clear, we said publicly, and we say again on this
record, the Board-- and I may not have said it clearly in the past, I apologize. It's my fault for
being a poor communicator-- the Board will receive absolutely every application that is received.
If it's written in blood on the back of a brown paper sack, it will be distributed to the full Board. I
think that's the example that I used last time when we talked about this. And every single
application will be distributed to the full Board.
The committee did say, here are some criteria we're looking for. However, we have the freedom
to say, gosh, we don't think that's qualified, doesn't meet all of the qualifications. But everything
goes to the full Board. And that will be delivered to them.
As I recall, we said on New Year's Eve-BARBARA MCMANUS: Christmas Eve.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, no, Christmas Eve to the committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 27th to them.
DOUG TISDALE: And then the 27th, we meet. And then following that, it goes to the full
Board. And then the full Board meets on January 2.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK? So just to clarify.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And possibly January 3, right?
DOUG TISDALE: Right. We've reserved both nights, both Thursday, January 2nd and Friday,
January 3 for meetings to discuss these. And these are the interim applicants
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks so much for clarifying that.

DOUG TISDALE: OK, no, I appreciate it. As I say, I know how sometimes these things can get
lost and sometimes I speak too fast. So I apologize for that, but absolutely everything is going to
everybody.
All right, now I asked if the committee-- and thank you very much, Treasurer, and stay with us,
because we're not done yet. But I am going around the table to see who else has other matters.
Anyone from the committee with other matters? OK. Then, any Director with other matters?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, so I'm reading through this letter from Rolf, and he's mentioned this,
about interim being different than the permanent GM search. There's some sort of a difference.
So I'm reading this letter trying to digest it, and I don't think we got-- did we get this in email,
and I just skipped over it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No because there was an email that was sent out by Paula the first
time around. And I thought you referenced it when we were on the phone, when you were
looking through some of your documents that had outlines. But it did not have a complete
outline, so I asked Rolf to put that together, because in my mind, there was additional
information missing.
So what I'm going to be doing is taking that memo that was done in 2009, and Rolf's, and putting
it together in a single document, and getting it to the full Board. I just haven't had the bandwidth
to get to that quite yet.
NATALIE MENTEN: So we're looking at it. And again, I'm digesting this here while I've got
one and a half ears listening to the conversation. I'm also trying to read this. And I would prefer,
actually, if Rolf would be able to answer it. I don't know if he's even here, available, any of those
things.
DOUG TISDALE: No, he's returning from the mediation this afternoon.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So what I see in paragraph 2 on this letter from Rolf to Barbara and
Chair Tisdale is, in the second paragraph of his letter, where he's speaking about CORA (Colrado
Open Records Act) Article 11. And about halfway through that paragraph, you'll see a reference
to paragraph (b).
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Are you in the December 6th email? Or are you in this-NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, December 6th email.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and you say page 2?
NATALIE MENTEN: Paragraph 2, so the first page of the email.
DOUG TISDALE: The first page of the email?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So it starts with "Under the Colorado Open Records Act--"

DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: That one. OK. OK, then if you go down to the two, four, six, seventh line,
over to the right, you'll see: "(b) The provisions of the subparagraph shall not be construed to
prohibit the public inspection or copying of any records submitted by or on behalf of a finalist."
DOUG TISDALE: Right, yes. Right. Once a person becomes designated as a finalist in the
process, everything they have submitted becomes an open record, except for the exceptions
provided, which are letters of reference or medical, psychological, and sociological data. But
everything else on a finalist is available for open records.
Now his question, the reason for his discussion on some of this, is he does not have, at the
present time, any case law indicating whether that finalist process relates to just permanent
appointments or to interim appointments as well. That's the real question that he's trying to figure
out. But we wanted to share all of that information with all of you at this time so you would have
it. He doesn't have an answer yet, but now you know the question he's asking. Yes, Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have a question on that. They haven't reread all this, but I read it
when we-- some of this came to us before. It says that if there are fewer than three people
submitted, those are treated as finalists. So if we have more than-- if we give everybody all of
this, and we interview four people, for instance, do we ever have finalists? And I don't know that
there's an answer to that.
DOUG TISDALE: That's one of the questions he has to answer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then there's an overview at the end of that memo that is his
particular recommendations in this case.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It makes me wonder, haven't we had an interim before?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So the process would be the same as that, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, in the past, when we had an interim, we just took an internal officer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. This is the first time it's been-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. That's the difference.

DOUG TISDALE: This is a whole different process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: So then with this overview, and-- I'm kind of just digesting this right here,
right now-- so number 3, on this, "In light of the above provisions, I recommend the following"
is what Rolf says. "Number 3, the individual who is interviewed by a Special Board Meeting
may be considered a finalist. Therefore, the records submitted by or on behalf of such persons
may be open for inspection under CORA."
DOUG TISDALE: In both cases, the word "may" is used advisedly, expressing the possibility,
not permission.
NATALIE MENTEN: So and then [INAUDIBLE] in the 2009 memo. Although, in 2009, we
were not dealing with an advertised interim.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, other questions on this, because we have a lot of other business that the
committee has to address.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, I just want to add that Director Menten has some questions on
the confidentiality agreement, and I don't have it signed yet.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Is that something you need to bring up now?
NATALIE MENTEN: That's partly what I was bringing was because this does not detail
anything different than interim versus the search.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, I thought it did.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't-DOUG TISDALE: I don't have my copy in my hands. May I borrow yours for a moment to look
at the language to see if they got that [INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm reading everything here on the fly, but-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, this was the original version. I believe-- and I apologize-- I thought we
had added the language for clarity, because I thought this question might arise from some
directors. It says, "I, blank, am an RTD Board or staff member participating in the General
Manager's selection process."
I thought we had inserted, "including the interim General Manager search process, during
which"-- and I apologize. That's my fault. I thought I had inserted that. But it is intended to

address both the interim-- the General Manager search process includes the interim and the
permanent. And I apologize for the lack of clarity.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to say, I just signed mine. You can see if it got changed.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They're all-- I just made all the new copies.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK, never mind.
DOUG TISDALE: I was certain I had done that, and I apologize. That's my fault. Mr. Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: When I signed on Tuesday, it had "including interim" in it.
DOUG TISDALE: It had that language about interim?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: It may be that-- did we just reproduce now-BARBARA MCMANUS: No, I made copies of what we gave out on Tuesday, so I don't know
where the mix-up is, unless there were two separate copies that were out there on Tuesday. And I
don't know. I apologize. I just took a paper clip to clip.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. For the sake of-BARBARA MCMANUS: No, wait.
DOUG TISDALE: --clarity, we might-BARBARA MCMANUS: This says "interim General Manager search" on Director Catlin's.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, not on the one that she just signed.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
JEFF WALKER: In the first paragraph.
DOUG TISDALE: So I don't know where Natalie got it, but it's not there.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, well, here is one that says that.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Here you go.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.

DOUG TISDALE: And that answers your question in terms of saying specifically it's on interim.
So we will ask you then-- because you've inserted the question now that other people might
argue, oh, this doesn't apply to the interim, this is just the permanent, we'll ask you to sign that
one.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm going to step out until I talk to Rolf about the difference between
interim and the regular GM search.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so somebody can let me know when I can come back in.
DOUG TISDALE: All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: I really don't want to sign a permanent agreement that I'm tied to. I just
haven't gone through this before where [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: I know. And [INAUDIBLE] don't leave yet. Our goal is to make the
executive session the last thing that we do. We still have even gotten to distribution.
BARBARA MCMANUS: [SNEEZES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bless you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Excuse me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bless you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Because I've asked the committee, now other matters from other directors
that you'd like to bring up at this time? Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like to say that I have not read all of these materials yet, the questions
or anything. But at the state, CDOT, we would have the finalists answer a list of handwritten
questions as a way of further screening, and then did follow-up questions in the interview
process. Is that something that we might consider here?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I mean, with the turnaround time that we have, it would be your
decision, articulating finalists which we're looking at January 2nd or 3rd, and then trying to get
those finalists, whomever they are-- and as I said, some are local and some are out of state-getting them here and what that schedule looks like and making a permanent selection, just
timing-wise, we have to just look at that when we're making the decision.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.

DOUG TISDALE: And I think we meant interim selection.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Interim selection. And we-SHELLEY COOK: Chair? Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: This is Shelley here. So if I recall from our motion, the process was not to
necessarily produce finalists after the second and third meeting, from the second and possibly the
third. It was rather to identify any of the candidates we wished to interview.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe the way it read, from memory, was an appropriate number of
individuals to be interviewed. Yes, that the Board would determine an appropriate number of
individuals to be interviewed. The point that we're making is, it doesn't need to be stated. The
law is the law. The law says if we have three, that's finalists, and that's open records. That's the
point I'm talking about.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, but the aim of those interviews isn't to identify finalists and then
interview them. It's rather to identify whom we want to interview. Correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, although I don't know what other word you would call them once you've
selected them for interviews, unless you intend to interview everybody.
SHELLEY COOK: No, no, we could select an interview as long as it's [INAUDIBLE], but not
necessarily designate them as finalists, I think is the point. I wouldn't want to get ahead of
ourselves on that. Allow some consideration of a broader group before you identify finalists.
We're getting very good information from them. We're getting a resume and a cover letter, so I
think the interview is a chance to get more information to allow us to think about whether we
have finalists from that group.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear your point. I take it, and I'm just pointing out if, for example, we were
to say that number were three, then by law, they are classified as finalists. Whatever we want-we can call them "sunshine boys," but the answer is they're finalists under the law.
SHELLEY COOK: Right. That's what we've got to treat them like. That's right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: From reading the statute before, I think that my recollection is that that
interim step is referred to as "candidates." But if it's below three, you're right, those candidates

become finalists. But if we're talking to four people or more, I don't think those are considered-the statute contemplates an interim step there.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, the statute contemplates three, calls them "finalists." More than that-and the reason for that distinction is when you submit something, are you anticipating that this is
all going to become public record? And that's the reason for the protection of the statute. So as
long as you're over three, then you don't expect that that will become public record. But once you
become a finalist, then you understand everything that you've submitted, except for the
exceptions that I read before, and I'll read them again if you would like them for clarity, is open
record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And so the question I had reading that and reading this-- and I don't think
it's clear, and we kind of referred to them-- if we interview four people and just pick one, do we
never have finalists? And that's maybe-BARBARA MCMANUS: Except for one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --another conversation with Rolf.
DOUG TISDALE: That's what Rolf is looking into for us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Those are some of the questions we've asked. That's right, because we don't
have a clear statement on that. That's right. So yeah, you've nailed it nicely, and that's what-when you have the chance, that's part of what he addresses.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. It just wasn't complete, but that's fine. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: That's right. All right, other matters before I turn to Mr. Meader? And then
we'll ask for an executive session motion. But any other matters? All right, then Mr. Meader, can
you give us an update on things or any matters that you'd like to share with us at this time on
behalf of the General Manager?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. First of all, on behalf of the employees, I want to say thank you for your
recommended action vote on the pension contribution. In light of all of the questions that exist
out there, that really sent a very powerful message to people that they are valued out there, so
thank you for that.
I know a couple people have asked me, and I don't have fully specifics. The Chair may have
more from just talking with the General Manager out there from a mediation perspective. And
things continued.
I know yesterday they presented the numbers. And as expected, they were a little far apart.
They've worked through quite a few hierarchical things. That's kind of just the gist of that. So
there was some optimism, maybe, that we could fit things a little bit closer there. That's kind of

what I've heard. I don't have any specifics. And I'm sure that he'll brief everybody when he gets
back here.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and on that point, the agenda that you approved, if you look, there is an
executive session at the end, where we will get a report from DTP and RRP litigation matters on
Tuesday night.
MIKE MEADER: Yes. So that's all I got, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all? All right. OK, at this point in time, then, having concluded with
that-- but let me ask, Madam Treasurer, Director Cook, you have any questions specifically for
Mr. Meader?
SHELLEY COOK: No. I'll ring off once the vote is taken.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. OK. All right, so at this time, I will ask for a motion
for the Executive Committee to convene an executive session pursuant to Colorado Revised
Statute 24-6-402(3)(a)(V), to discuss matters that are subject to negotiation and instructing
negotiators, specifically as permitted as an exception item to Colorado Revised Statute Section
24-6-402(3.5). May I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second. Any discussion on that motion? Let me, for the sake of clarity-SHELLEY COOK: Chair, if I-DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, again?
SHELLEY COOK: You had mentioned that the other Board members present, it's their choice.
Sounds like Director Menten has opted not to, but Director Guissinger might participate as well.
Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: About five minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: That is what I said, yes. That's an accurate recollection. That's right. And
also, thank you for saying that, because I want to remind us that the context, as we describe for
the subject matter, is to talk about possible draft interview questions and the scoring criteria that
we might utilize with that. That's the only thing--

SHELLEY COOK: Will I have a chance to look at those after-- these a possible draft questions.
Can I have a chance to look at those too after the meeting there?
DOUG TISDALE: After the meeting, I believe that the intention is that we will circulate them,
but have you signed the NDA?
SHELLEY COOK: I have.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Cook, we're not socializing this via email or out into the
public, so in order to see them, you would have to be here.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Yes, but we're deciding them, and I don't have the opportunity to
weigh in. What I'm asking for is, can I weigh in subsequent to your meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Certainly. Of course.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, because you're not setting them, necessarily. We are generating some
possible questions, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. We cannot take any formal action in the executive session. But
again, we're taking the first step. We're going to try, anyway.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you going to reconvene after the executive session and vote on the
questions or do anything that or-DOUG TISDALE: No, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm just trying to get-- OK. OK, good. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right, now may we have a vote on the motion? All those in
favor, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
SHELLEY COOK: I'd rather it be later, [INAUDIBLE], but thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: All right.
SHELLEY COOK: So I'm off.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so 4 to 1 is the way the vote will be recorded for the record. Any
other discussion on that before we now adjourn the open and convene in executive? Hearing
none, all right, we will now adjourn the open session as of 12:56 PM on Thursday, December 12.
Mr. Meader--

