Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 20, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
William Cagle – Bus Operator – 23 years
Wayne Daiker – General Repair Mechanic, Bus Operations – 30 years
Michael T. Dunn – Body Mechanic – 30 years
Ronald Haake – Unit Shop Mechanic – 20 years
Kenneth L. Johnson – LRV Maintenance Supervisor – 30 years
Louis Lawrence – Supervisor, Equipment Maintenance – 38 years
John P. Martinez – Light Rail Operator – 24 years
Scott D. Myers – General Repair Mechanic, Bus Operations – 31 years
Nicholas J. Romero – Light Rail Operator – 23 years
Mary Ann Swank – Service/Vault Puller, Bus Operations – 42 years
Richard Wertz – Bus Operator – 30 years
Gene Wisch – Unit Shop Mechanic – 16 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley

CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Rubin Brown Report on Cost of GM Contract - 2014

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of December 16, 2014

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of January 6, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Station Naming Plan for U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and approve the proposed U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Station Naming Plan,
codifying final name and nomenclature changes for the U.S. 36 BRT Line as follows:
a. Boarding locations shall be referred to as “stations” for U.S. 36 BRT.
b. The current U.S. 36•Westminster Center station shall be renamed to US
36•Sheridan station.
c. The current Table Mesa station shall be renamed to U.S. 36•Table Mesa station.
d. All other station names shall remain the same as existing (U.S. 36•Church Ranch;
U.S. 36•Broomfield; U.S. 36•Flatiron; and U.S. 36•McCaslin)
B.

Sale of 1,384 Square Feet of RTD Property at Yale Station

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to sell approximately 1,384 square feet of real property located
generally at Yale Circle, City and County of Denver to Yale Station Workforce Housing,
LLC for $26,000.00 or $18.79 per square foot.
C.

City of Boulder Hop Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business

and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,459,687.00.

XIII.

Recommended Action
D.

Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Seventh-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to
Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the
seventh year, which is an additional option year of the contract. The scope and fee are
renegotiated annually. The seventh-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $2,600,000 for a
total contract value to date of $14,622,000.
E.

5311 Cost Share Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2015 and for amounts not to exceed $353,990.00 for
Boulder County, $348,398.00 for Adams County and $107,948.00 for Jefferson County.
F.

Denver Regional Council of Governments Vanpool Cost Share Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2015 and shall be in
an amount not to exceed $760,000.00.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

