Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

October 26, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
October 26, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve Board members were present at roll call. Directors Cohen and Tayer arrived after roll
call. Director Christopher was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were eight retirees for the month of August. Adelheid (Heidi) Clayton was present to
receive her award. Carla Perez presented this award and noted that in her short span of time
at RTD she was most impressed by the number of people who attended Heidi’s going away
party and the appreciation of her work. Heidi commented that when she started they had to
know everything from soup to nuts. She has done everything from maintenance to
procurement management. She thinks procurement management has encouraged her to be
creative and think outside of the box. She had lots of fun.
Chair Kemp commented that he knew Heidi when he worked as an employee for RTD. He will
miss her.
SPECIAL PRESENTATION-BUS ROADEO
RTD Bus Operators
Assistant General Manager Bruce Abel presented the certificate of appreciation to the first,
second and third place winners of the bus roadeo. He indicated that Dave Sesack, 3 rd place
winner, had represented RTD once at the International Roadeo; John Johnson, 2nd place
winner, had been competing since 1999, had competed six times and represented RTD in 2
International roadeos. John Deschner, 1st place winner, had competed in the state and has
represented RTD a number of times in the International. He will represent RTD in International
in Memphis.
Bus Operators-Contracted
Stu Livensparger, First Transit, presented the certificates to the first, second and third place
winners from First Transit Denver. The winners were: Paul Zadra Sr, 3 rd place, Abniger Ek
Chan, 2nd place who had competed at 2 national roadeos, and his brother Jose Ek Chan, who
won the 1st place.
Maintenance Team-Contracted
Stu Livensparger also presented the certificates to the team who had placed second in the
maintenance category. This team consisted of Mamush Wube, Juan Mendoza, and Sileshi
Adgolign.

Maintenance Team-Contracted
Eric Biga with Veolia presented the 3rd place maintenance team award to Nathan Nguyen,
Sintayehu Woldeyes and Viktor Zhurba who competed for the first time in 2010.
All of the teams and winners were congratulated by Chair Kemp and the Board.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Tracie Newton, the new transit coordinator at Lockheed Martin, spoke related to the 63X. This
is a new role at Lockheed Martin and she is actively engaging the employees in their support of
increasing ridership on the 63X. Several of the employees including non-riders have signed the
petition and she hopes to do internal marketing, education and other activities to beef up this
ridership. She requested a chance to work with the employees and RTD to increase ridership
on this route.
Mark Molen, Thornton CO, expressed desire for the Federal Station to stay on the East side as
initially determined. He stated he has done environmental work for over 30 years and while he
recognizes the concern over environmental contamination and cleanup, he questions the $2M
cost for the cleanup. He stated the costs may be different if there are planned structures, etc
which would necessitate certain requirements; however a parking lot with no structure could be
accomplished with putting in a vent with mitigation costs less than $30K. The quoted $2M is
an exaggerated figure.
Steve Hiratsaka expressed concern over the proposed Federal station change to the West side.
He stated the drivers for putting the station on the East side initially has not changed:
Visibility, accessibility and parking.
Kim Gillan spoke in favor of the Federal station on the East side. She has spent the last three
months reviewing all the RTD environmental documents. She is more baffled now than before
over the change to the West side and RTD seem to be violating its own criteria for a successful
station. The West side is landlocked, has visibility and accessibility issues, and is a long way to
parking especially for the physically challenged. She states there is approximately a 100 ft
walk on the East side compared to approximately 500 ft walk on the West side with varying
elevation.
Rick Dillon, Golden CO, indicated that he owns property around the Federal Station. He stated
the East side was the obvious right choice based on location, parking, and environmental impact
and will help to clean up the community.
Pat Daley indicated he has circulated a petition with a number of businesses in the vicinity. 8085% of them indicated they want the Federal station on the East side. Having the station on
the West side will destroy wildlife habitat and downgrade a prestigious location.
Mary Ann Rief stated she felt the East side was more rider friendly. The physically challenged
would not be able to navigate and this will have an ultimate price tag.
Cynthia Vitale spoke on concerns related to the West Corridor around 10th and Sheridan. She
indicated there are about 5 acres to the back of her home that is being used to crush asphalt
and concrete. She is concerned about the health impact and on air quality. She has contacted
several groups and will be hosting a meeting with RTD and other environmental related
organizations to discuss this issue. RTD Board should consider this issue as though they lived
in this area.
Jack McCroskey, former Board member, expressed continued concern over the impact of the
fare increase on the middle and low income transit dependents. He suggested there are other

ways to address budget concerns such as reducing costs with our contractors and consultants.
He stated RTD has the choice to do right or do wrong. They need to have the courage to cut
costs because there comes a time when all men and women need to resign from the herd and
do the right thing.
Jill Jennings from the Auraria Campus, spoke about the possible impact of changing route 12
and noted there are about 250 people who make that transfer there on a regular basis. She
requested a relook at the impact of this change.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Brohl requested a correction to page 7 of the Operations minutes where the vote on
the recommendation for service changes in January 2011 was omitted. A correction will be
made and revised copies of the minutes sent to the Board.
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee—Committee Chair Busck reported
they have just completed the quarterly survey of the General Manager. The GM Oversight and
Performance Management committee will review these results with the GM and provide a
management summarization to the full Board. The Committee is also preparing to begin the
annual evaluation process that must be completed by year end.
Director Brohl complimented the General Manager on the ease of use of this survey and found
it to be a nice, intuitive process.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported there has been no meeting of the Metro Mayors Task Force.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 21, 2010
MOTION:

Director Brohl moved for the adoption of the September 21,
2010 regular Board Minutes.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Busck indicated he would abstain from voting due to his
absence at the last Board meeting.

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 1
abstain (Busck)
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
RailVolution Conference
General Manager Washington participated on a panel discussion with Dallas and LAX
CEO’s discussing mega projects and the challenge of sales tax assumptions. Several
Board members attended this event and provided comments (Tayer, James, Bagley,
and Cohen):
Director Tayer expressed an appreciation of Phil’s and other GM’s involvement; this
was indicative of the learning experience he got from this conference on finance,
marketing, TOD and other strategies. He highly recommends this conference to other
Board members.
Chair Kemp commented he attended this session and noticed how the questions seem

to come to Denver first as though Denver was the trailblazer. General Manager
Washington provided excellent comments.
Director Bagley stated that the RailVolution Conference was a great conference and
documented the coming together of transit and Land use in a great ft for a medium size
city. The session was fantastic.
Director Cohen expressed that he also got tremendous value from this conference.
Additionally he shared experience from a panel discussion that he participated on at the
conference focusing on new partners with new money. Panel members included a
Chancellor from a University, They should consider looking at partnership with
Universities and business communities. Another area of interest was in the lessons
learned on ballot initiative timing.
Director Daly reported he attended the APTA conference in San Antonio where the
General Manager, Phil Washington, participated on a panel discussing the Eagle P3 and
the transit industry in general. There were so many attendees he was unable to get
into the room.
Four car LR Train Consist Testing
General Manager Washington reported that the light rail team is performing their testing
of 4 car LR trains over the weekend. These tests check for downtown signaling and
other things.
Reconvening of Construction Inflation TaskForce
RTD is reconvening a group of experts who assisted in the past at looking at
construction costs. They will help us with projections in preparation of upcoming APE.
Ongoing Employee Forums throughout the District
The General Manager has begun another round of employee forums that he terms
“rapping with Phil.” This is unscripted and the employees get to ask whatever they
want. Director Daly inquired what type of issues he has received from the employees.
The General Manager reported that in general, the morale is high, his senior leadership
team is out there talking to their employees, and there is an environment of listening,
trust and responsiveness to the issues. There are a few issues on the bus side, the
security of the bus operators being one of them.
Urban League of Metro Denver CEO Breakfast
General Manager Washington along with Director Martinez attended the Urban League
CEO breakfast. The General Manager was the keynote speaker. Director Martinez
added that the General Manager’s message had everyone listening. They were
interested in the special projects, workforce initiative, partnerships and other activities
that RTD is engaged with. He thanked the General Manager for a great job.
October 15-Officially provided FTA with everything needed for Full Funded Grant
Agreement
The General Manager reported that as of October 15, the FasTracks team has officially
submitted everything needed for the Full Funded Grant Agreement.
Director McMullen asked what was the latest on the New Jersey project that had been
“pulled” by the Governor. The General Manager indicated there are lots of discussion
about what is going to happen and if the Governor will rescind his decision. His feelings
are they will get the project back on line in some form. In the interim, RTD is next in
line and he has communicated to the FTA that we have a product in FasTracks that is
construction ready and can put people to work immediately.
Marla Lien, Legal Counsel, Nominated by Colorado Real Estate (CREW)
The General Manager along with several other senior leadership team attended a
luncheon sponsored by CREW where Marla Lien was nominated for the “Women who
make a difference award.” This was a high honor in recognition of Marla Lien’s work

on the DUS project. This organization involves a group of prestigious women leaders in
both the private and public sector who are engaged in real estate.
Director Brohl congratulated Marla for this honor and stated there are other awards
such as a recent award to DTP for their engineering plan for the P3 project that
indirectly reflects on RTD and the caliber of people who are engaged on this project.
Plan of Action for November 9th Presentation
General Manager Washington they are still on track for November 9 where they expect
to give readout of the best technical use of the remaining funds for the Eagle P3.
Additionally they will discuss the various taxing options (i.e. .1%.2%.4%). There is no
decision to be made by the Board at this time. They anticipate coming back to the
Board in the January 2011 time frame for a decision.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion for the unanimous consent agenda but before the motion
provided a correction to item C, Resolution No_ Series 2010A and 2010B Certificates of
Participation. Page 4, section 3 of the resolution stated the amount of $35,00,000 and should
have stated $35,000,000. This correction has been made and a corrected copy of the
resolution will appear with the minutes.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve items A-F of
the unanimous consent,
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Chair Kemp commented on the free rides for members of the military. He stated the Board
fully supports the efforts of our troops. RTD is happy that in some small way we can
contribute to help our troops and their families. They are putting their lives on the line for our
freedom.
A.

Approval of General Manager’s 2010 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s goals for 2010.

B.

Approval of General Manager’s 2011 Goals
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s goals for 2011.

C.

Resolution No.___, Series 2010A and 2010B Certificates of Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing
the execution and delivery of an annually renewable Lease Purchase Agreement (the
“Lease”) with RTD Asset Acquisition Authority (the “Corporation”) and related
documents pursuant to which there will be executed and delivered Tax-Exempt
Certificates of Participation, Series 2010A and Taxable Certificates of Participation
(Direct Pay Build America Bonds), Series 2010B (collectively, the “COPs”).

D.

Resolution No.___, Series 2010A and 2010B Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing
the issuance of Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Projects), Series 2010A and Regional Transportation District, Taxable Sales
Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) (Direct Pay Build America Bonds), Series
2010B (collectively, the “Bonds”).

E.

Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the 2011 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The 2011 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget is $7,194,130. The District’s
expected cost for 2011 is $6,784,179. It is important to note, however, that our
2010 actual expense is coming in below 2009 actual by -6.53%. This is due to the
success of the 2010 implementation of the Cigna self-funded options and the carrier
change for the District’s life/disability coverage. This is a significant achievement
considering that the medical trend for employer-sponsored group plans has been
estimated to increase from 7% - 11% each year.

F.

X.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have a minimal impact on RTD.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.

Approval of January 2011 Recommended Fare Policy Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in Attachment A,
to take effect beginning January 1, 2011.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve January
2010 recommended fare policy changes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Busck indicated that he will vote for this fare
change. However, the current fare policy provides a
short gap measure but the new Fiscal Sustainability
Taskforce will have to look at everything: employees,
furloughs, budget system, operations, no fluff in budgets;
we must look outside the box for opportunities. We
cannot leave any stone unturned.
Director Tayer thanked staff for beefing up efforts to
address the impacts of the fare increase on low income
individuals and through their outreach to the non-profits
that participate in the discount pass program.
Director Martinez stated that he has heard from numerous
seniors and unemployed in his district. He cannot in good
faith support another fare increase until the Fiscal
Sustainability taskforce has looked in depth at this issue.

He remains concerned for those seniors and unemployed
who are not counted in the headcount because they are
no longer eligible for unemployment or whatever reason
but now cannot afford the cost to ride the bus to seek
employment. RTD has done great work with the nonprofit organizations.
Now, how do we get the
unemployed to be able to ride the bus to look for a job or
get to events?
Director Brohl stated we are not really voting for a fare
increase but a vote against cutting services. This is the
lesser of two evils. If we start foreclosing on service and
cannot get people to work, this is more damaging than
raising fares. Staff has provided a rational relationship
between pass discount and fare box amount. She will be
voting for this action.
Director Daly commented that the results of the customer
survey show the customer prefers a fare increase over
cutting service by a 2-1 margin.
Director O’Boyle commented he will support this as one
of the things we can control. There is more to balancing
a budget than fare increase. We need to take a hard look
and provide responsible and accountable public service.
Director McMullen stated silence speaks loudly and he
also felt the results from the customer service polls
supports a fare increase over cutting service.
Director Malpiede indicated she too was surprised by the
results of the survey. She is pleased that RTD is working
with over 198 non-profits. She is looking forward to the
work of the Fiscal Sustainability Taskforce.
Her
community indicated they prefer a rate increase to the
cutting of service and therefore she will vote for this
action.
Chair Kemp stated this was a hard decision. It is the
lesser of two evils. However, we are responsible for
balancing the budget. The fare increase is one of the
tools we have. We have shown that we have outreached
to the transit dependent.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor
(Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and 1 against (Martinez). Director Christopher
was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

H.

Approval of January 2011 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 9, 2011 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost savings of

approximately $2,412,600, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the January
2011 service changes.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Martinez indicated he had some conversation
with staff regarding route 43 on page 64 of Attachment
A. He requested a language change related to Sunday
service. Jessie Carter agreed to the correction.
Director O’Boyle asked for clarification on the 63X to
make sure the 63X and the CC had been excluded from
this service change. He stated this was the result of the
Board’s policy to not foreclose on service in outlying
areas where they have no reasonable option. Director
Bagley thanked staff for making this change and indicated
that he and Director Daly will be working with Lockheed
Martin on improving ridership opportunities.
Director Cohen commented that this was indicative of the
tough choices ahead we have to make. This should put
both the 63X and CC riders on notice that these routes
are at risk.
Director Daly commented that once routes are eliminated,
it is difficult to restore.
Director James thought this was a great process to look
at and this is constructive in the long term.
Following this discussion, Chair Kemp read a letter from
Honorable Mayor Baum of Longmont regarding the Bolt.
In this letter, Mayor Baum requested assurance that the
proposed change was only a temporary change during the
construction. Bruce Abel agreed this was a temporary
change and would modify the language to add this.
For a copy of this letter in its entirety, please refer to the
Board minutes located in the Minute Notebook in the
Board office.

AMENDMENT:

Based on the discussions above, Director Pulliam and
Director Martinez withdrew the original motion. Director
Busck offered a “friendly” amendment and seconded by
Director Bagley to include the changes indicated above:
(1) Sunday services on route 43
(2) Removal of 63X and CC from service change
consideration
(3) Add language to reflect that changes to the BOLT was
a temporary change that will resume after construction.

VOTE ON
AMENDMENT:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the amendment PASSED.

A revised copy of the Board report for the approval of January 2011 Service Changes with the
changes made above are included with these minutes. The financial impact from the Sunday
route 43 change reduced cost savings from approximately $41K to $27K or the total reduction
in net annualized cost savings from $2.412M to $2.398M.
I.

Approval of Policy Guidelines for Board Executive Committee Elections
It is recommended by the Board Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
adopts these policy guidelines to help facilitate the annual process for election of
officers to the Executive Committee.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve these policy
guidelines for the Board Executive Committee Elections
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Cohen and Director Pulliam offered up several
opposing issues to this document including their concern
that the new Board members would be excluded. They
also objected to language that stated the Chair would
start the process in May.
After some extensive
discussion on this item, a motion was made to withdraw
this item from consideration until further work could be
done. These revisions were assigned to Director Busck
to manage and coordinate.

AMENDMENT:

Director Brohl made the motion to withdraw her original
motion and to lay this item on the table until this
document can be reworked.
Director Malpiede seconded this amendment.

VOTE ON
AMENDMENT:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Pulliam has stepped outside the room
and Director Christopher was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

J.

Approval of Board Revised Bylaws
MOTION:
Director Martinez made the motion to approve the revised
Board Bylaws.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Pulliam was out of the room and
Director Christopher was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
General Manager Washington offered an update on the discussion of the Governor of New
Jersey killing the project. The most recent update suggests that after a review of the issues,
the Governor of New Jersey will announce his intention to kill the project. Stay tuned.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Tayer provided an update on the Fiscal Sustainability TaskForce. They have selected
a facilitator (Osprey Group) who is very familiar with RTD, having successfully facilitated the
highly contentious work of the EcoPass Taskforce. They have developed a list of potential
participants from the community who are local experts on government financing and
operations. The kickoff meeting will be November 16, 2011. Director Tayer emphasized that
the work of the Task Force will be process driven, not agenda driven. Director Tayer will
provide monthly updates from this Task Force at the regular Board meetings.

XIII.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, October 26, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
Noel Busck
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jeff Becker
Shirley Bennett
Jesse Carter
Carolyn Conover
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Brian Iacono

Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Tony McCaulay
Barbara McManus
Anthony Menendez
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna

OTHERS PRESENT:
John Deschner - RTD
Dave Sesack - RTD
Jose Ek Chan - First Transit
Abniger Ek Chan - First Transit
Paul Zadra Sr, - First Transit
Rick Peuler – First Transit
Silisw Adgolieu – First Transit
Hasan Arkawazy - First Transit
Ralph Harriman - First Transit
Heshmat Khajehzadeh - First Transit
Sileshi Adgolign - First Transit
Juan Mendoza - First Transit
Mamush Wube - First Transit
Carlos Gonsalez – First Transit
Nathan Nguyen - Veolia
Sintayehu Woldeyes - Veolia
Viktor Zhurba - Veolia
Eric Biga - Veolia
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Jack McCroskey
Rory Seeber - Life on Capital Hill
Tracie Newton - Lockheed Martin
Mark Molen – Molen & Associates

District I
District B
District H
District K
District O
District D
District M
District N
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Cherie Sprague
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Christina Tubb
Phil Washington
Greg Yates

Steve Hiratsaka
Kim Gillian
Pat Daly
MaryAnn Rief
Daniel Rief
Paul Juradc – Auraria Campus
David Clayton – H. Clayton
Rick Gillian
Jill Jennings Eshol
Zachary Mustein - Auraria Campus
Cynthia M. Vitale
Jeff Fejik
Daryl Kinton

