2024-09-24
Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. For the sake of the record, this is Erik Davidson, Chair of the
RTD Board, speaking. I will now call to order the Tuesday, September 24 board meeting, the RTD Board
of Directors. We are convened as of 5:32 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. My apologies there. I would
respectfully ask everyone to remain muted tonight unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you,
everybody, for joining us.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings, please note that committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are still being held remotely via Zoom and are audio and video
recorded. The meeting minutes, along with the unofficial minutes of the-- I'm sorry, the meeting recordings
and unofficial minutes will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit RTDDenver.com and a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we will also be providing Communication Access Real Time translation also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should please send an email to the RTD
Board Office at the email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally,
the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a
live transcript of this meeting in Spanish.
This time, we'll now move to the Pledge of Allegiance and Director Lewis, would you please lead us in the
Pledge of Allegiance?
JAIME LEWIS: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which
it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And at this time, I'd now like to ask. Ask Director Buzek. Would you please
read the land acknowledgment?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Thank you. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our
buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary
tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders, who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. I will now call the roll. Treasurer Bouquet? He will be arriving late this
evening. I'll ask the Board Office to just help me note for the sake of the record, if I miss it when he joins.
He's currently absent. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLINI: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell? I believe he will also be joining. He's currently absent. Second Vice
Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha is in excused absence. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale? Currently absent. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also here. That is 11 directors present, four
absent. We have a quorum. This time, I'd now like to ask Director Whitmore to please read aloud the
Statement of Employee Appreciation.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Chair. The Regional Transportation District Board of Directors
recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD employees do
extraordinary things to make lives better through connections. We honor their work of delivering transit,
excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult and stressful
moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound gratitude,
commitment, and support toward all RTD employees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. We'll now move to the next portion of our agenda, which is retiree awards.
One of the many rewarding duties of serving on this Board of Directors is to recognize the RTD retirees,
and the time has come for us to do that this evening, to recognize all of those employees who have served

their community in this agency, making connections, and making lives better through those connections. At
this time, I'd like to read the names of employees who have retired since June.
We'll have round of applause all at once, and then we do have one retiree here this evening that will be
recognizing. This evening, sitting are those employees who have retired since June are David Cook, Bus
Operator, 30 years, Gene Doss., Division Supervisor, 23 years, Cheryl Eaton, Bus Operator. 17 years, Zuo
Guo, Senior Oracle Developer, 20 years, Janet Hoon, Executive Assistant, Capital Programs., 18 years,
Kim Lucero, Bus Operator, 28 years.
Brian Varney, Service Technician, 23 years, and Don Young, Senior Manager, Treasurer, 45 years. All at
once, A round of applause.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUSE]

So at this time, we do have a 45-year employee who has joined us this evening. And I would like to ask our
Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Doug MacLeod, to please introduce Mr. Don Young at this time, please.
DOUG MCLEOD: Good evening and thank you for the nice introduction. This is Don Young. Don has been
here, it says 45 years, but I believe it's 45 years and 8 months, so rounded up to 46 years. I tried to get him
to stay until 50 and that was his goal, but we're going to miss Don a lot. As you can imagine, Don's been
here since we were just a small bus company. He's been in charge of the Department, made huge changes
along with new rail, all the expansion that we've done.
We've added all sorts of new technology over the years that Don has been instrumental in putting in place,
as well as policies and procedures. I think your staff is about 40 or so.
DON YOUNG: 44
DOUG MCLEOD: 44, folks that maintain all of our ticket vending machines, our pass vending machines,
our fare boxes, thousands of fare boxes on the buses, and then 1,000 or so ABT, account-based ticketing
validators on buses, as well as another 200 platform validators, as well as collecting all the cash that comes
in from fares that are paid, so millions of dollars. Don's probably been responsible for collecting, he and his
team, billions of dollars over those 45 years.
Anyway, Don did a great job transitioning, made it very smooth when he left at the end of August, so I want
to thank him for sticking around to do that. But I really want to thank him for all of his years of service and
for just being a great person. He's been a great servant to RTD but he's just a really good person and
dedicated, easy to work with, and we're all going to miss him on the finance team. So I'll let Don say a few
words now.
DON YOUNG: Well, good evening, everybody. Again, like I said, 45 years. That's a tremendous amount of
time, but to me, it didn't seem like it was 45 years at all. I started with RTD when I was just a young kid, and
it's RTD was-- I've used this term a lot. It was like a mom and pop organization, real small. It didn't have
any rail. It had a couple of divisions and all bus. But, yeah, what Doug had mentioned about all the transition
activity and the technology that we've moved into rail, that's been a big part of the whole fare collection
piece that I've been involved with.

I just want to thank everybody. RTD has been a fantastic place to work. I've told many, many people how
much I've enjoyed working here and all the people that I've met and all the people that I've been involved
with, so I thank you. I'm on to the next chapter of my life. And people ask me all the time, well, what are you
going to do? I said, well, pretty much whatever I want to do now.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHS]
I don't have a time clock anymore. I don't have to worry about being in any particular meetings in any
specific time. So I'm enjoying that a lot and really looking forward to moving ahead with that, so thank you
very much.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUSE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: If everyone could stay seated, we're going to just take a brief moment to take a few
pictures and we'll be right back.
All right. Well, once again, thank you, Mr Young. I couldn't quite make 46, I guess, as we found out from
Mr. MacLeod there. But thank you for all of your service and thank you to all of our retirees for your
commitment to the agency and the public, an agency that delivers tens of millions of rides every year. Thank
you very much. All right, at this time, we're going to move to our public participation period. This is open to
anyone who would like to address the Board of Directors as we have both in-person and remote attendees.
In-person comments will go first, followed by those who are participating online. For those attending in
person, please come up to the podium, when your name is called. If you have not already signed up to
speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any additional speakers. For
those attending virtually or online, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, you can raise your
virtual hand on Zoom or you can press * 9 if you're dialed in on phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press * 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then you may submit your comments in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference
materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, you can email
those materials to the Board Office using the email address. Rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to be
contacted regarding your public comment, please send an email to the same email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Before calling on the speakers, I'll just note, for the sake of the record, we
are now joined by Director Tisdale and are at 12 present and three absent. Speakers, when you are called
upon, please begin your remarks by stating your names and then you will have up to three minutes to
provide comment.
I will let when you have reached your three minutes. Starting with our in-person speakers, I will now call on
our first speaker, who is Chazz Davis. If you could please approach the podium, introduce yourself, and
you will have three minutes.
CHAZZ DAVIS: Good evening, GM Johnson and the RTD Board of Directors. My name is Chazz Davis. I
live in Southwest Centennial with my fiance, my 2.5 year old son, and we have another baby boy coming
in just a month's time. And I've been coming to these meetings now since January, really talking about one

issue in particular as it pertains to Access-On-Demand And I know that a number of my colleagues with the
National Federation of the Blind are here to speak on a number of issues as well.
But I do want to just continue my conversation about Access-On-Demand and multiple stops and its
removal. So, when I moved here, I moved back to Colorado in 2022, I was able to find myself eligible for
paratransit services with Access-A-Ride. I was very lucky to be able to use the Access-On-Demand service
as well, and that service really worked extremely well for me for over a year with no issue.
And at the end of last year, the proverbial rug was pulled underneath me and the multiple stops that I used
almost every single day to take my son to daycare and then go from daycare to work was gone. It left me
having to order another ride. Sometimes those cars would pull up for whatever reason. I can't comment as
to the reason. But sometimes, the cars would cancel and drive away. I'd have to wait another 20 minutes
for another car to show up.
And there I am just standing on the curb in the cold and other inclement weather just waiting for a car to
come. It doesn't make any sense to me in a fiscal sense. It doesn't make any sense to me as it pertains to
the ADA or Title VI. It doesn't make any sense to me for any reason as to why this service, the multi-stops
that was available to us for a number of months with no issue was taken away. And it was taken away
without any data behind it or data that was shared with us.
And I am requesting that the multi-stop feature is re-implemented until we can come to a point where there
is a decision that is made and decisions that are made that are data-driven decisions. And that is my request
to all of you, and I'm just really hoping that this is something that we can move forward with. Thank you for
your time and have a good night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Our next speaker is Jessica Beauchamp.
JESSICA BEAUCHAMP: Good evening, everybody. My name is Jessica Beauchamp and I serve as
President of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado. Over the last week, we have held three
listening sessions with our membership. The overwhelming sentiment has been that Access-On-Demand
service has become a significant tool that many of our members use to work, go to school, run errands,
enjoy leisure activities, and fully engage in all aspects of society in a manner that is convenient and timely.
We are very concerned by the quick frame that is being proposed to make changes to the Access-OnDemand service. The recommendations that were made by the peer review that was released last week
are not supported by data. These changes that will significantly impact the lives of riders with disabilities
should be thoughtfully considered with collaboration from stakeholders, much as was done when the fare
structure of RTD was changed.
Additionally, we believe that significant changes to the Access-On-Demand service should not be made
until RTD addresses the egregiously high administrative costs currently associated with the Access-OnDemand services. These could likely be significantly decreased through technology-based solutions that
would automate features that are currently being managed with human power. We respectfully ask that the
RTD Board of Directors not move into any changes with little thought and less data.
We know that when decisions have been made and rushed through like this, often they have not yielded
the results that were desired. If this Board truly wants to make a hasty change, we, as an organization,
would strongly encourage replenishing the fixed route transit system back to the level that it was prior to

pandemic, so that more people would be able to use public transit to live the lives that they want. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker will be
Erin Daly.
ERING DALY: Am I here? Hello. My name is Erin Daly. I live in Englewood, Colorado, and I am a current
Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand user. And I just wanted to speak regarding the peer review. I
definitely understand that some changes need to be made per the peer review. I think that this service, I
want to commend the directors and RTD for doing this because we're all here right now because it works.
It works, it's amazing.
It gives us equity palatable to what everyone can use on this system and we are able to, on-demand, go
and go to a doctor's appointment. I can go to work. I work in an office pack. And you don't want to see me
going around in circles around cars and stuff (LAUGHS) like a really long time trying to find the building.
What I think that we need to do is we need to focus on the data and see what is going to make the most
difference. When this first came out, there was a $2 base fare for this and it was removed.
I'm not sure why it was removed because we were I think many of us were happy to pay that base fare
initially. And when it was removed, we thought it was because the system was working incredibly well and
everything was going OK. I think a base fare we can definitely look at. It could be fair for it. But I think when
we look at things like boundaries 3/4 of a mile. What we're looking at is at a system that is already manually
run.
And when we look at the numbers of how this is actually working with the times that the bus routes are on
and 3/4 of a mile, we're going to be adding more to the bloat that's already in the administrative budget.
This budget, which I believe is about 25% of the budget for these rides that are actually being taken. And
before we make any decisions on what we should cut, we need to see what these cuts will do because I
can't go and figure out whether the exact stop I'm is 3/4 of a mile.
If this isn't going to be geofenced, if it's not going to be anything like that, it's not going to make sense. And
we're going to have a lot of people that are going to be suspended from the system through no fault of their
own because they're using the system that has worked for them. And if we have it done manually, all that
it's going to do is increase and eat up the savings that we could have from, I believe, what is it, less than
6% of people that are going outside that 3/4 of a mile.
So I think we need to look at what the financials are looking at this and how it's directly going to impact that.
Given that, I don't see a lot of data that supports many of these changes, and I think that we need to look
at the numbers and take our time and do that before we take away a system that has truly created equity
in a Colorado for all in this community. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker is Maureen
Nietfeld.
SPEAKER 1: You can stop and go back.
MAUREEN NIETFELD: Go back?
SPEAKER 1: Yup. Turn right. There you go. There you go.

[SIDE CONVERSATION]
MAUREEN NIETFELD: OK. Thank you very much for allowing me to make a comment. My name is
Maureen Nietfeld and I am a user of the Access-On-Demand system. I am a person that has multiple
disabilities. I have had 37 surgeries. I have a kidney transplant. I have a spinal cord injury. I'm a person that
lives with cancer and is on chemotherapy. I am also a person that works full time and is a volunteer for my
community as Second Vice President of the National Federation of the Blind of Colorado.
And I am also a parent of a six-year-old little boy. And this Access-On-Demand has been absolutely
amazing for me to get back and forth to work, for me to get to doctor's appointments, for me to go to
radiation, for me to participate as an active parent, taking my son to soccer, karate, swim, school, and any
reduction in this system would deeply impact our community. And as disabled Coloradans, we deserve
equity. Your Access-A-Ride system, I'm sorry, it is a broken system, and the Access-On-Demand works.
It's absolutely fantastic. Last week, I walked into a meeting at work and got a phone call from my son's
school that he split his head open on the playground. And like any other parent, I rushed to his school,
calling an Uber, got to his school in under 15 minutes, picked up my son, took him to urgent care where he
was treated for his head being split open, and then caught another Uber where I could bring him home in a
safe, comfortable ride after a traumatic experience.
We need to have on-demand transportation, and we ask that you thoughtfully approach any reduction in
the system and thoughtfully make changes that are appropriate. And please do not rush this timeline as we
will be negatively impacted. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker is
Deshawn Spears. SPEAKER 1: Go back. There you go. Yup.
DESHAWN SPEARS: Hello, everyone. My name is Deshawn Spears and I am-- I live in the Littleton area
and I am a father of a eight-year-old son. And I just want to say that we love having the Access-On-Demand.
For me, it gives me-- it makes me feel independent. I'm able to go to work. I can take my son to school and
pick him up. I can-- just like you guys with your cars, having this access is great because I feel empowered.
And I just want to have you guys to just make sure that you guys don't cut, think about what the cut might
do to this program. And so, thanks a lot.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us this evening. Our next
speaker is Kevin Kovias. Kovacis, apologies if I mispronounced your name.
SPEAKER 1: You may go right there. That's just fine.
KEVIN KOVACS: Hi, my name is Kevin Kovacs, and I live near Cherry Creek. I work at Buckley Space
Force Base, and the paratransit is not an effective way for us to do that without the on-demand. The last
several times I've taken fixed route, which I have to have somebody with me because the ramps on the bus
aren't all set heights. There's no standard at how high they are or how steep the ramps are to get up.
The last time the bus pulled next to where the ramp led out over halfway into the sidewalk, so I get off, I
tried to get their attention, help me. They had to move or help me off of there, and he just kind of stared at
me. So I tried to get off of there and flipped over off the sidewalk, fell out of the chair and had to call
somebody to come get me out because the bus driver took off after that. The on-demand service has been
amazing since we started, since we moved back up here, and where they actually have it.

So I would highly recommend, yeah, looking at the data more closely and actually how it's going to affect
the community. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker is Cody
Bear.
SPEAKER 1: Could you just about to there hop in? It's just here in front of you.
CODY BEAR: Good evening, RTD Board of Directors. My name is Cody Bear and I live in Littleton,
Colorado. And like the majority of the others tonight, I'm an Access-A-Ride / Access-On-Demand user. First
of all, I want to applaud the Regional Transportation District for being innovative in coming up with AccessOn-Demand. As a lot of my friends in the audience have said here tonight, this is a transportation system
that works where the broken Access-A-Ride system did not work.
It provides us opportunities to respond to spontaneous events and get there in an on-time fashion. It allows
me to get to and from work every day. I work for a company where I don't always have predictable working
hours. Sometimes you might have to stay a little bit past 5:00, if there's work that still needs to get done.
And to that point, I just want to encourage the RTD Board to really take spend the necessary time to look
at the data behind this service before rushing to any decisions.
I think the RTD staff owes it to the Board to provide good quality data. And for some of the things that we
are interested in is, what are some of the costs associated with the regular Access-A-Ride services that are
eliminated because people are using Access-On-Demand and really continuing to be innovative and
decrease some of those administrative costs. In the software world that we live in, running a service based
on Uber shouldn't cost 25% administrative costs.
And of that, I think there's other areas to save costs in ways that won't affect the service negatively, and
will still have it be a useful service for the RTD constituents. I appreciate all your time tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next speaker is Nate
TRELI:
NATE TRELA: Hello, my name is Nate Trela. I've been here a few times over the last several months talking
about paratransit and Access-On-Demand. Obviously, with such a broad selection of possible changes to
the program being looked at, cautious, thorough consideration of everything I think is very important. And I
do think that even though the peer review was silent on the matter, the possibility of restoring multi-stop
trips should be part of the decisions being made in this process.
I've talked before about how this has provided freedom of movement that people with disabilities do not
usually have. It has made possible for me a day to get some work done, go for radiation appointment, pick
up my kid or my youngest, bring her home, take her to school, whatever I needed to get done in the day,
things that weren't possible with the broken core access-a-ride service, things that were not financially
feasible with Uber having to pay full fares to shuttle around the metro area like that, and logistically
impossible to do with the fixed route service.
The way that program or that opportunity, that availability, that feature was shut off pretty quickly and without
any explanation of data supporting the possible cost savings is concerning as we're looking at the suite of
changes right now. I truly believe that there is an honestly held belief that this was a change that was going
to save money and help protect the system long term.

And I believe there's a sincerely held belief by staff that some of the cuts being reviewed at this point in
time could potentially save money for the system, but there's no data being presented at this point in time.
I hope it's coming. I think you and the Board deserve to have that data, and I think the staff should be doing
their should recognize the importance of bringing that forward. With the multi-stop issue, the financial
savings have never been really demonstrated to be there at this point in time.
This is a rare choice that possibly added cost to your consumers and to the district and to RTD's own
expenses, which is not really a win-win for anybody. I know there have been questions raised about equity
claims that could arise from this. But beyond vague references to the ADA and Title VI, there really has
been no clear explanation in all these months of what those concerns could be, what specifically in the
statutes, in the rules, could be coming into play here.
I think that's a level of transparency that needs to be available on discussing multi-stop trips, as well as any
of the other changes that are being considered here. This is such significant changes that are possibly out
there right now. This is not something we should be rushing through. Thank you for the time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments and for joining us. Our next speaker is Timothy
Keenan.
SPEAKER 1: It's just here. Right here. OK, very good.
TIMOTHY KEENAN: Hi, everybody. My name is Timothy Keenan. I'm totally blind and I have used both the
Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand services, and they each have their good points. But by this point,
most of my day, since I've work a freelance job, like for instance today, if I had tried to register Access-ARide to come down here, I would have missed out on a fairly important thing that came up with my work.
Access-On-Demand has allowed me to. live an active life that's not prescheduled, because a lot of our lives
these days are not. And so, I just wanted to-- Access-On-Demand is considered a premium service and I
just don't think that's quite the right terminology these days. It's pretty necessary for us to live the lives we
want in 2024 and beyond. So beyond just emphasizing the importance of Access-On-Demand and the fact
that it's really is necessary for a lot of people, I just wanted to-You've heard it before, but when I saw this timeline that was proposed by the staff, I was like, whoa. You
guys are going to get deluged over the next couple of months with stakeholder input and the initial
recommendation and then the final recommendation, and then you're going to be asked to vote on that in
November.
And I just think-- I just wanted to urge you to take your time. If you don't feel like you're being given all you
need, all the data that should go behind changes of this magnitude to the Access-On-Demand service,
don't be afraid to say let's table this for another month until we get the-- until we can be comfortable about
doing this. Thanks for all you do, and I appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and for joining us. Our next in-person speaker is Keith
Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Good evening. I'm Keith Brooks. Maintenance of way is a hard, often thankless job that
often involves the worst elements of late night warehouse work and heavy construction. And in RTD, it's
especially hard. There's having to do 20 years of regular maintenance in, well, hopefully, as soon as
possible. I came to speak about two things. One, what has been going on, which is good. I know I've been
coming to these for months with bad news.

But a recent interview in railway track and structure with several head people at RTD maintenance of way
really impressed me with what they've done with the resources they have. Only 22 people out at night doing
the work, backed up by a total of 75. And while I certainly feel the work should be done faster, it should be
done faster through more people, but the people that are here right now doing the work are truly impressive.
I also wanted to talk about projects being finished early.
The coping panel project was finished early. Congratulations. No notes. There's nothing after that.
Congratulations. Downtown light rail, however, that was finished three weeks early. If it was going to finish
three weeks early, it would be clear, it was going to finish early, several weeks before that. Now, in the end,
in the current world we live in right now, the opportunity has been taken to use that time to get some more
work done. That is good. That is a very good use of available resources.
What's not so good is before we heard about that, the first thing we hear is a statement that the reason
trains can't start running again until three weeks later, despite the project being finished was because of
the unionized light rail operators. That is an excuse we have heard a lot. It is an excuse that every time you
go to someone at the Union, they're like we'd love to do that. We'd love to run an extra service during a
sporting event. We'd love to get the trains running soon.
That excuse runs very thin, especially when there is actually a good reason. Using that time to get more
work done to make less next summer less painful is good. Just please stop pulling defeat from the jaws of
victory. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments and for being here. Our next speaker in person is Jenoise
Holcomb.
SPEAKER 1: Two ways. Just keep coming a few more steps. And you're about to get to the podium, and
you're at the podium.
JENOISE HOLCOMB: Is it here?
SPEAKER 1: Right here.
JENOISE HOLCOMB: OK. Hi. Jenoise Holcomb, and I'm back to talk about paratransit. First, I want to
thank you very much for offering Access-On-Demand. It's been life changing. It's allowed me to be less
afraid to go out, not just for the sake of mobility, but just for the sake of money. I live on a fixed income, and
I don't have enough money to take multiple trips on Uber every month. I do have some money and all of
my pennies have limited disposable income were going to transportation.
I do take paratransit and I did take Access-A- Cab. I thought the reason you created Access-On-Demand
was because you were aware that paratransit was failing. It doesn't show up in the pickup window. It doesn't
drop you off. Sometimes, I was dropped off two hours early, which is embarrassing and also stressful. I've
stood outside of my apartment for 45 minutes pacing because there's nowhere to sit. And sometimes,
paratransit just says, well, just wait. Your bus is coming.
Sometimes, the worst part is they'll say, it's canceled. This has happened to me. Do they make good on it
and bring someone else? No. They just say, well, you're just going to have to cancel your appointment or
figure it out. Without Access-On-Demand, I had to pay out of pocket to then call an Uber or else I have to
cancel my appointment because I'm going to be too late. These are very stressful and not reliable situations.

And I think that's the main thing that access on demand gives me, is the ability to be somewhere on time
without wasting a couple of hours, in this limbo land. And that is something we all deserve. And I think that
you guys really need to think about the fact that paratransit is not meeting its statutory requirements. And
now that you have shown the Access-On-Demand works, we know it works. We know it's possible. It also
costs about a fifth less.
It seems like, from what the CTA says, about what it costs you to provide a bus. And so, I would really like
to see data. I'd also really like to know, do you know who your consumers are? Do you know what it means
to have an impairment mobility problem? I can walk, obviously, but I have orientation issues. I have stress
problems, but I had to qualify for Access-A-Ride, it's humiliating process. You have to show someone how
you walk so terribly.
I already know I don't do the greatest job walking in newer places, but to constantly, every four years, have
to prove it yet again-- my doctor was humiliated asking me some of the questions on the form. So people
signing up for the service, it's a big deal, and you don't do it lightly. And in the last meeting, there was the
insinuation that the numbers doubled because people just want this free service. That's not why. It's
because for the first time it was actually worth the humiliation to some people to sign up for paratransit in
order to get a service that worked.
And so, I thank you very much. And I just want to remind you that it is Colorado for all. Paratransit is not for
all. But for the people that need it, it is imperative, and it is the crucialness to our ability to be part of society
and to live full lives. And I Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Our next and final sign up
speaker in person is Richard Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. I'm Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. Thank you
for the opportunity to speak. Tomorrow, I'm going to take the light rail, so I have got the light rail survival kit
as advised by certain directors and staff. I have a book. I have my device for my podcasts. And just in case
I have a problem with my undies, I have some spare, four pack. That's because one for each line that has
slow zones on it.
The thing I really need is this document here, which is the schedule to stop belonging in the fiction section
of the bookstore. In January, before all this started, light rail trains were given 54 minutes to go from Union
Station to Ridgegate Parkway. This summer, taking into account the coping panels project, that was
extended by seven minutes to 61 minutes. Next week, in the service change, we go back to the 54 minute
runtime. That's what the new schedule is saying.
The problem is the trains are still taking huge delays to get down due to the slow zones. I followed one train
today online, 12 minutes late at its destination. One of our members took a train down to Arapahoe at the
village last week, on time departure, 16 minutes late as far as Arapahoe. Riders can take late trains. Riders
can take the reduced frequency. We can't take both. You've probably got in your pack, in your feedback
today, some excellent work by Joe Meyer.
As part of Joe's research, she got some emails from RTD staff, and it was very clear that the light rail
planners know exactly what's going on. They know that the trains are taking longer to get end to end, longer
to layover, longer to get back, what we call the cycle. Because of that, they know we need extra trains to
do the same level of service. Now, while we have plenty of light rail trains, we don't have plenty of extra
operators.

Therefore, we have the unfortunate decision where the E Line is not and the H line are not going back to
15 minute service. They can only go back to 30. Next week, how is this going to work? There's another
seven minutes been put the wrong way in the schedule. The trains are going to continue to be late. Our
city's had its big schedule change. People are still going to have a negative view of RTD. The curious thing
is this, the operators have voted on a run board that allows these extra time.
So why not publish a schedule that shows how long the trains are going to take? As the slow zones get
fixed and as maintenance away continue to pull heroics, the times will get shorter, but all that will happen
to the operators is they will just have more layover at the ends of the line. They continue to do the same
runs. They continue to pick up the trains, start, and finish exactly as they voted. I think with everybody else
but the rider taken care of, we really, really need to think how we adjust this.
There is a 30th anniversary party coming up for to celebrate light rail. We would love it if the riders were
truly considered. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for joining us and for your comments. We have another speaker
who did sign up, and that is Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Directors. I just want to say very quickly that I appreciate and agree with
a lot of the comments that have been made so far. Access-A-Ride is a critical service. And for folks who
can't get around without driving their own vehicle and who run into serious mobility challenges, I think we
need to take their lived experience into serious account when we're making changes. But I completely
understand that RTD doesn't have all the money in the world.
There's a great chart in this month's packet that shows the changes in fare revenue by source. We saw a
significant increase in mobile fare payments, the use of the validators, and at the same time, completely
flat cash payment. There was virtually no decline in cash payment. People are not finding the system, the
new system that we have, as a good alternative for paying in cash. So I bet you know what I'm going to talk
about.
Credit card tap is rolling out nationally, and you guys bought the hardware already. We've all been using it
for over a year now. It works. So why can't you take the final step? There is an RFP this month for level
boarding for the trains. That's extraordinarily expensive and it will take years to implement. Tap to pay is
something that's doable in the next year or two. But as far as I'm aware, there's no RFP for that. Cash
payment takes time. It's more complicated, and people are forced to overpay if they don't have exactly
$2.75.
Tap is easy for everyone to understand. RTD's number one priority right now is increasing ridership.
Technologies that facilitate new ridership should be at the top of the priority list, especially when you've
already done virtually all the hard work installing account based ticketing and contactless hardware. Put
contactless on the agenda for next month. Find out where we're at and what you can do to make it happen.
This one should not wait. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. That concludes those who
had signed up to speak in person. Before moving online, I just now would like to ask, is there anyone else
who has attended in person who did not have a chance to sign up and who would like to speak? If so,
please approach the podium. You may line up and we will recognize you for three minutes. Thank you, Mr.
Kroll, for the assistance.

[BACKGROUND CONVERSATION]

SPEAKER 1: And you're all set.
CHRISTINE MINGUS: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for joining us.
CHRISTINE MINGUS: My name is Christine Mingus and I'm the mother of four children, and I work full
time. And I just want to say that I really appreciate the Access-On-Demand because when my kids were
little, I did not have it, and I was very socially isolated, and it also impacted my children, because I couldn't
really get them out. It was very difficult. I would take them to places we could walk to.
But if you've ever considered carrying two toddlers and a baby and trying to keep track of the other one,
those events were very stressful. And so, I would have loved to have something like what we have now. I
had applied when I was pregnant with my fourth child for the Access-A-Ride and I was denied. And I would
like to address the fact that I do not think that the qualifying process is equal or fair, and I think that there
should be a lot of thought given to that.
There are some people on there that practically can see enough to drive and don't have other mobility
issues. And there were people like me that were totally blind and having orientation issues that struggle to
get on it, so I think that's something that needs to be addressed. I am denied often to get on to the AccessA-Ride because there's a note somewhere in the system that says only if it's going to rain or snow.
And so, this forces me to use the Access-On-Demand along with the inconsistencies in the routing of the
Access-A-Ride. The routes are way too long. There's more efficient ways to do it. As Uber has proven,
there's no reason to go from Thornton to Littleton to get somebody to Lakewood. It just-- there's better ways
to do this. So I just want to say that I appreciate the Access-On-Demand. On I am in agreement that we
should definitely do a base payment.
I have no problem with that. I just hope that you guys will consider the data for all these rides. I do think it
is less expensive to pay a $25 fee than it is to hire the bus drivers at their level of pay and then to the
specialized equipment that is necessary for maybe a wheelchair user that isn't necessary for a blind user.
And so, I think that we need the data to be considered before any changes are made. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Seeing no other speakers
in-person, we will now move to our online speakers. Prior to that, I'll note for the sake of the record that we
were joined by Treasurer Bouquet as of 2:11. I'm sorry, I believe that was 6:11 PM. All right, we will now
move to our speakers online. Again, you may unmute yourself on Zoom when you are recognized or you
can toggle *6 if dialed by phone.
Board Office Executive Manager Mr. Kroll, can you please assist me in calling on our online speakers,
please, by please calling on the first?
JACK KROLL: Yes. The first online speaker, your phone number ends in 0220.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Hello. Thank you very much. Can you just confirm that you can hear me?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can hear you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Perfect. Thank you. This is Dr. Claudia Folska, and I'm calling to talk about paratransit,
the Access-On-Demand, and the peer review study. And while I appreciate the effort and thoughtfulness
that went into actually conducting a peer review, I think that was a really great step forward. I will say it was
kind of disappointed in the fact that after HATS, arm of a group for people with disabilities, so transportation
for folks with disabilities, I was wondering why they weren't part of this process.
It would make sense as we know and you heard tonight from subject matter experts, the people who actually
use it. And remember, in marketing and business school, customer is always right. Think about it. CocaCola, Procter and Gamble, would die for these increases in numbers. What can you do creatively to
monetize this opportunity, where you're not putting people who are the user, the customer in harm's way
for any financial impact? So, for example, can you use the data in some fashion?
Can you find a way to work with Uber and Lyft to fill in those areas? I also know, from staff, at least that's
what they told me a couple of years ago in the paratransit group, that when you use paratransit, each way
is costing RTD $80, each way. And so, right now, if you're using, let's just say $25 each way, that's 50. So
RTD is saving $110 right there. But then ask yourself about the data that really is missing, and this is a
really great point here, guys.
Everyone's talking about data, data, data, and data should be driving the decisions here and informing you,
but do you have all the data? I don't think so. Ask yourself, for example, who are these people and where
are they going? Well, I'll tell you. You heard it yourself. They're going to work. They're going shopping.
They're going to entertainment, and they're spending money, and that's sales tax revenue that goes to
RTD.
And I think it would be real swell if Mr. MacLeod could look into that and say, hey, where are these sales
tax dollars going? Can we track that? I bet you can. I also am concerned about the lack of input through
the peer review of a broader stakeholder group. Out of all the hours that were spent, 55 minutes are given
to people with disabilities. 30 for Julie Reiskin at the CDC and 25 from a representative at the Deafblind
Council. And the Learn Hall never showed up, and that's a concern.
And the horse is kind out of the gate. Folks with disabilities, your consumer, should be part of-ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Folska, I'm sorry to interrupt you. You are over the three minutes. If you wouldn't
mind, just briefly wrapping.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I appreciate that. I think it would be great to conduct another peer review
using people with disabilities, both from APTA, CTAA, NTAC, and the broader community throughout the
entire process. Thank you very much and I appreciate all that you do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director, for joining us Mr. Kroll, if you could call our next speaker
and when our next speaker is called, if they could please begin, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have James Triplett.
SPEAKER: It's good?
JAMES TRIPLETT: It's good.

ERIK DAVIDSON: We'll need Mr. Triplett off-SPEAKER 3: On the Zoom webinar. More options for caption, button menu, space context menu, by
speaking language, colon, English sub-menu.
JO TRIPLETT: Can you hear me?
SPEAKER 3: You are now unmuted and now lowered.
JO TRIPLETT: Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, yes, we can now hear you.
JO TRIPLETT: OK. I'm Jo Triplett. I am a self-advocate. I am an Access-A-Ride user. And while I do agree
with Access-On-Demand also, but, OK, I'm speaking for the unspoken on Access-A-Ride, who, for one
reason, can't speak for themselves. I wish I could use Access-On-Demand, but I have severe mobility
issues that prevent me from doing that. Another reason I can't use Access-On-Demand is because, unlike
Access-A-Ride, they're not required to help you.
And I've spoken to people who've told me when they get out of the car, some of them are blind and some
of them have other disabilities, that they said, we have to find our own way to our destination. Access-ARide and other companies of people with disabilities, they will assist you if you need help to get from the
bus or the car to the destination. I would like-- and I want to say about Access-A-Ride, there've been a lot
of criticism of Access-A-Ride, but you know what, a lot of people on this line have other options.
There's those of us who don't have an option. If Access-A-Ride was to go away, we would be basically
prisoners in our own homes.
SPEAKER 3: And most had stopped broadcasting.
JO TRIPLETT: I would like to see some updates on Access-A-Ride. I've been on the system since 2004. I
have not seen one, and I'm talking major update. I've been riding 20 years. I wish that the peer review board
would please put some new things in Access-A-Ride. For example, if I go to three places in one day, it
takes me eight hours just to go to three places, where people in Access-On-Demand can go in a third of
that time.
I don't begrudge them of that, but I really wish that we would have more updates. And by the way, it's not
the passenger's fault or RTD's fault if they can't get enough drivers. We're really low on drivers for the
Access-A-Ride. Well, I know the staff on Access-A-Ride and they're trying to hire as many drivers. A lot of
them will stay, get that $1,000 bonus, and then leave. So, of all the criticism for Access-A-Ride, yeah,
there's problems with that. I think there's a problem with the Access-On-Demand.
So, I wish that we would get some major updates on Access-A-Ride. Maybe we could ride. Most people on
Access-On-Demand, they ride free. OK, I don't begrudge them that. I wish I could. You would sure save
me a lot of money in my budget, but I'd like to see some changes made, like that we don't have to wait an
hour. If I want to go to the bank for a 5-minute run, I'd like to be able to get back on the bus or at least wait
no longer than 15 minutes to go to my next destination.
You have to wait an hour between all three places. Well, that's-- and you count the time you wait for the
Access-A-Ride to pick you up and bring you home. That could be anywhere up to $8. So I wish that this

peer review would ask for some major changes that would make it more helpful to the Access-A-Ride users.
There's many of us-ERIK DAVIDSON: James, I apologize to interrupt. You are over the three minutes. If you could briefly wrap,
please?
JO TRIPLETT: OK. If we didn't have Access-A-Ride, many of us would be prisoners in our home. I know
RTD is doing their best, but please, for the first time in 20 years, please, please give some major updates
and help us also to be able to travel with independence. Thank you for your time and I really appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, could you please
call on our next speaker, and they will be recognized.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Jordyn Castor.
JORDYN CASTOR: Hello, there. My name is Jordyn Castor and I'm a totally blind resident of Boulder. I'm
here tonight to express my deep concerns about the proposed restructuring of the Access-On-Demand
program, specifically the recommendations to limit the service to within 3/4 of a mile of fixed routes. The
fixed route system in Boulder is already challenging for blind and disabled users. Many bus stops are placed
at entrances to large parking lots, forcing me to navigate through open and unsafe places to reach my
destination.
In addition, many areas lack accessible pedestrian signals, which are essential for me to safely cross the
large, complex intersections common to many areas of Boulder. Because of these issues, relying on the
fixed route system is not a viable option for me or many others with disabilities. Access-On-Demand has
been that solution that allows me to travel safely and directly to my destination without having to navigate
these unpredictable environments. I use Access-On-Demand every day to get to and from work.
Now, in the past, there was a bus stop next to my office, but that route was eliminated. Now, the closest
fixed route stop is 1.5 miles away from my workplace, a distance that's simply too far for me to navigate.
Many disabled residents, including myself, choose to live and work based on the availability of transit, so
we choose where to live and work based on that.
Some home owners have bought their houses with fixed routes in place to find out years down the line that
that fixed route system has been eliminated from their neighborhoods, making Access-On-Demand or
Access-A-Ride their only transportation option. Reducing the service area of Access-On-Demand would
not only take away the freedom this program provides, but also the confidence of knowing that we can get
to our destinations reliably.
The fixed route system often leaves uncertainty about whether a bus even serves a particular location or
how far the stop is from where we need to go. Access-On-Demand removes that uncertainty by ensuring
direct and reliable transportation. I strongly urge the Board to consider other ways to ensure the
sustainability of this program without cutting off the access for those who rely on it most.
As it was said earlier, Access-On-Demand is not a luxury for us. It is a necessity for people who, like me,
depend on it daily to live and work independently and participate actively in our communities. Thank you so
much for your time and for considering the critical role that Access-On-Demand plays in the lives of disabled
residents.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us Mr. Kroll, if you could please
call on the next speaker online and they will be recognized.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Maryann Migliorelli.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: Thank you so much. My name is Maryann Migliorelli. I live in Boulder and I'm
the President of the National Federation of the Blind, Boulder Valley chapter. As a resident here in Boulder,
I did not choose to use the Access-A-Ride system as I am totally blind and, for most things, was able to
travel independently. I did not choose to use Access-A-Ride at a time when I knew that drivers were short.
Many friends who need the service, who have more severe mobility-independent issues of any kind were
being told that there were not enough drivers to service their needs. Why would I have accepted an AccessA-Ride at a time when my friends were being denied their own services? When Access-On-Demand
became available, I certainly was more willing to consider the fact that, yes, there are times when I do need
to use a service that I know will not take away from someone else's service that needs the Access-A-Ride.
We are looking at all of the examples that people are putting out about how much money this program is
taking to do what it needs to do for Access-On-Demand, but we have not had any numbers on how much
Access-A-Ride has been depleted, or not been being used because of people using Access-On-Demand.
And we also do not know how much the Access-A-Cab program has decreased because people have been
able to shift to Access-On-Demand.
When we have and you have all of the data, there will be a lot clearer picture of what versions of cuts should
be possible in order to sustain all of the programs that are part of the paratransit system. I ask that you do
not make decisions until you have all this data in hand, and that when you do, please consider the people
whose services you are taking away. Thank you very much for your time and your attention and your
diligence in doing the work that you do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, could you please
call the next speaker and they will be recognized.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Joy Nelson.
JOY NELSON: Yeah. Hi. Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We can.
JOY NELSON: OK. Thank you. Yeah, I am also an Access-A-Ride on-demand user. One, I have used it
and I do use a number of them because I go to and from work. I am now actually able to-- If I decided to go
to my parents, I'd actually be able to go to my parents because it is there. Aurora does not have bus systems
all the way into the outer edges of Aurora, into Murphy Creek or into all that different area.
We need to be able to have those options to be able to have services, to be able to go visit our families, to
be able to go shopping. We should be able to-- like I said last time, while I was in-person, that we need to
be able to have opportunities to use the multiple stop system because it would save money, it would save
us time, and a whole bunch of other things. I am in favor of keeping making sure that there is at least 60
rides a month. I am in favor of keeping the $25 up to it.
I do have to pay over most of the time I am paying at least close to $10 over in addition to get to and from
work. If I did take the regular fixed route system, it would take me over to-- it usually takes me about three

hours each way, and that's only going 20 miles. I have, like one of the other ones, they have tried telling
me that I'm only allowed to use Access-A-Ride if it's snowing or raining. I have tried using Access-A-Ride
and have been late to a doctor's appointments multiple times.
So there's a whole bunch of issues with using Access-A-Ride. Access-A-Ride on-demand has been very
helpful. I also-- assess it due to some major issues that have happened during that. So I would really ask
that you guys take in consideration to those who use it. And for those of us who do have disabilities, who
are blind, or whatever else, that we are able to actually live our lives and be able to have that opportunity.
Because for one, I get to work. I have to-- I can't leave a specific time.
I need to be able to have that flexibility in my life. I need to be able to have the flexibility to go where I need
to. So, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us, Mr. Kroll. Could you please
call the next speaker and they will be recognized.
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, at this time, I see no further speakers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr Kroll. Thank you to all of those of you who attended in person
and virtually to speak with us here and share your comments with the Board. We very much appreciate the
participation. Mr. Kroll, could you please, at this time, read whether any emailed comments were received
for today's meeting into the record.
JACK KROLL: Yes. We received two emailed comments, one from Charles Davis regarding Access-OnDemand, the other from Greater Denver Transit regarding a host of topics, including several action items
on your agenda for this evening, Northwest Rail peak service feasibility study, and the light rail speed
restrictions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for reading that into the record. With no other
participants in the queue to speak, we will now close the public participation period at this time. We will now
move into our external entities reports. I'll just let everybody know, we will have two external entity reports
this evening and then we will be taking a brief break prior to resuming with our first discussion item. This
month, we have two external entity reports. Our first report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee or CAC.
Mr. John Fussa, you have joined us this evening. Will you please provide your report.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Davidson and members of the RTD Board. I'm John Fussa, Co-chair of
the Citizens Advisory Committee. And I want to thank you for a couple of minutes to provide this monthly
update. By way of activity, the CAC last met on September 12 of this year and we had a robust agenda. As
we've had for most of the year, robust discussion of some topics that are on our annual work program.
The first was a presentation by John Gardocki on the Subregional Service Councils and recent applications
and grant awards. I want to Thank Mr. Gardocki for his presentation and information. And that was a robust
conversation. The CAC continues to support the Subregional Service Council program and effort, and we
continue to urge the RTD Board to support that effort as a way to provide innovative and small bore transit
service and projects in communities throughout the district.
We also had, as part of our September agenda and part of an ongoing conversation, a discussion about
the effort commenced by Chair Davidson's call to fill open seats on the CAC. We currently have six open
seats on the Citizens Advisory Committee. And while we're able to meet, discuss, and conduct business,

we would very much like, as a group, to have those seats filled. We appreciate the RTD Board's support
for that recruitment and solicitation effort for new CAC members. And Chair Davidson, we Thank you for
calling that effort.
I'm pleased to report, thanks to the efforts of the Board and RTD staff, that the web page with information
and the application for CAC membership is now live on the RTD website, and it will be active through the
October 25 CAC member recruitment deadline. And we are, as a group and individually, working to push
that information and opportunity out into our communities within the district in hopes of getting good interest
for new members to volunteer to serve on the CAC.
And we very much appreciate the Board's support for that effort and for the CAC in general. We also had
a brief discussion of the November election issues, which I won't say anything more about here, but the
CAC continues to be very supportive of certain ballot questions on the November election. We had a robust
discussion amongst the CAC in follow up to Deputy Chief Horne's July presentation on public safety
programs and efforts in the system, and we look forward to inviting the Deputy Chief and police department
representatives back to future CAC meetings.
System safety is one of the CAC's core concerns and issues as it goes to the rider experience and the
ability of the system and RTD to both attract and build ridership going into the future. And we appreciate
Deputy Chief Orn's time that he spent with us in July. We also had a discussion, which I led, about the CAC
work program for 2024 with the support of the Board and RTD staff. We have a very robust work program
for the CAC this year.
And I'm pleased to report that on almost every item on the work program, we've either made progress or
completed our task for the year. So I do want to report out about good progress. We will repeat that effort
of updating our work program next year and hope to make similarly good progress with the support of the
Board and the staff.
Lastly, upcoming for the October meeting, we will continue our effort, as a group and individually, to promote
volunteer opportunities for the CAC and we hope to report out on that further at our next update to the
Board. In October, we will also be having a presentation from staff on the paratransit peer review, and we
hope to have a robust discussion of that topic and provide useful, meaningful input to the Board on that
issue, which is of great concern, as we've seen this evening.
And then lastly, in October, we'll have a staff presentation on several of the regional and district Bus Rapid
Transit projects and initiatives, some of which are very much going to construction, like the Colfax BRT.
We're particularly interested in that topic and hope to provide the Board with comments and input on those
BRT projects that are still early and in the planning stages. For example, the Federal and Colorado
Boulevard BRT efforts.
And we applaud RTD for its participation in support of the Colfax BRT project as well as other ones like
State Highway 119 in the Northwest corner of the district. And with that, Mr. Chair and Board, I conclude
my update and thank you for your time this evening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Fussa, and thank you for joining us for your report and for all
of the work on the 2024 work program and highlighting the opportunity to define the 2025 program and also
searching for those new members. Thank you very much for your work and for joining us. We have a second
report this evening and it's from the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, or APAC. Ms. Julie
Jennings has joined us. Welcome. Please present your report.

JULIE JENNINGS: Good evening. This is Julie Jennings with the Access-A-Ride Paratransit committee
meeting summary for September 10, 2024. Public comment was received from non-APAC member Nate
Trela with the Blind Parents Division of the National Federation for the Blind in Colorado. He expressed
concern for the NFB was not contacted for the peer review. The NFB wants the current services maintained
at the current status, at the current service level, and to ensure financial sustainability.
Also, that multi-stop should be reinstated. As a note, the NFB has been an ex-officio member of APAC for
over a year. Staff will reach out to the NFB again to see if they can identify a member to begin attending
APAC meetings. The APAC new year. Looking back, Gretchen Vittiger summarized the status of paratransit
for the last year. In addition, she noted that APAC has been helpful in providing feedback, support, and
testing of QRyde, has given input that led to revisions in the customer guide.
An APAC recommendation for a feedback mechanism was taken up by RTD's customer care with hopes
to have one implemented in the new year. Going forward, we have two new members. Sara Lee and
Thomas Rossi were introduced. (COUGHS) Excuse me. APAC is expected to continue to test and provide
feedback. (COUGHS) Feedback on the-- (GASPS) (COUGHS) excuse me, (COUGHS) (COUGHS)
It's expected to continue to test and provide feedback on the new web portal and its launch. Input will be
provided on the peer review and proposed changes based on its review and customer engagement.
Updates on the feedback mechanism. The feedback mechanism is being developed by RTD IT and
customer care departments for all RTD. The suggestion was made to also have an after trip feedback
mechanism.
Discussion, peer review of paratransit services, Access-A-Ride, and Access-On-Demand. Fred Worthen,
Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations, provided information on the peer review process, the peer
review report, and the recommendations. He confirmed that the multi-stop access on-demand option will
not be allowed at this time. RTD must provide equal access to services as required by Title VI and ADA
laws. Multiple concerns and suggestions were discussed.
Details can be found in the complete minutes of our meeting, which can be made available. Possible future
agenda items include discussion of the driver's six minute wait for the customer, dispatchers willingness
and ability to provide vehicle status prior to the end of the pickup window, Uber waived program, driver
training, providers how-to use, and lack of vehicle availability. And that concludes my summary. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms Jennings, thank you very much for the continued work at APAC, and thank you very
much for joining us and sharing your report this evening. That concludes the external entities portion of the
agenda. We do have next on our agenda slightly different order. We will move to a discussion item section
and this is for the paratransit peer review final report and next steps that will be presented. Prior to moving
to that discussion item, We are going to take a 10-minute break.
So we will start that now, and we will reconvene as of 7:05 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you.
Thank you very much. We are reconvened as of 7:06 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. This is Chair Erik
Davidson speaking. For the sake of the record, we just took a brief break. We're now moving to a discussion
item this evening. This will be the paratransit peer review final report and next steps. At this point, I'd like to
call upon and recognize General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to please introduce this item to the
Board.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all that are assembled. As
introduced, I'm Debra Johnson. I serve as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. This evening,
I am joined by my very capable staff, being Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, and John McKay, Executive Business
Partner. And collectively, there will be a presentation pursuant to the paratransit peer review final report.
By way of background, this peer review was convened at my request of the American Public Transportation
Association, which is the North American industry-based association focused on public transit service
delivery. And in the event of our desire to garner a better understanding about services related to both the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 complimentary paratransit services and premium supplemental
services, we enlisted the help of subject matter experts that work at transit agencies across the country to
delve in.
So with that as a backdrop, I will yield the floor to Mr. Worthen to start off the presentation, and then he will
yield the floor to our colleagues to round out the presentation this evening. Thank you very kindly.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

SPEAKER: Sorry, it's not working.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I'm having technical difficulties. Good evening, honorable
Board members. I am Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. As Ms. Johnson said,
I'm joined tonight by Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, and John McKay,
Executive Business Partner. I'll provide an overview of our paratransit programs, some key performance
indicators and metrics, with regard to these same programs.
And then we will also provide an overview of recent customer service satisfaction satisfaction survey
regarding paratransit operations. And finally, Mr. Summers will conclude with an upcoming outreach and
engagement efforts discussion to help improve repair transit programs as a whole. Being difficult.
(LAUGHS) All right.
So RTD's paratransit program is comprised of Access-A-Ride service and our supplemental premium
paratransit service, commonly referred to as Access-On-Demand. Our Access-A-Ride services are
complimentary paratransit services that are conditionally provided to passengers who live within or travel
within 3/4 of a mile of RTD's fixed route services or rail stations due to a disability or mobility barrier, as
defined within the criteria set forth by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
These services supplement regular fixed route services. Customers are required to pay a fare associated
with their trips taken and all Access-A-Ride vehicles are branded and are 100% accessible. RTD's AccessOn-Demand program is a supplemental premium service to provides curb to curb taxi and rideshare
options. Access-On-Demand services are currently available 24/7 throughout the entire service area that
is available to current algebra Access-A-Ride customers.
Access-On-Demand customers do not pay an initial fare upfront like our Access-A-Ride customers do. RTD
pays the first $25 of the customer's trip. Any costs above the $25 is paid by the customer. Customers can
take up to 60 trips per month on any one of four different service providers. As a bit of background, the
Access-On-Demand program began as a pilot in 4 zip codes with limited service hours. The initial pilot was
expanded in phases with the addition of wheelchair-accessible vehicles.

Additional zip codes were added and eventually a full expansion to the entire RTD service area with no
time or service area restrictions. The Access-On-Demand program was eventually expanded to include
four service providers. Late in 2023, RTD staff learned that some customers were utilizing multi-stop
services that were outside the Access-On-Demand program, scope and service restrictions. The Uber
application allows ambulatory customers to request multiple stops when booking a ride.
This option is not available through all service providers or to customers who use mobility devices. The
inability to provide multi-stop options to all paratransit customers created disparate treatment among our
riders. In December 2023, staff notified all riders that multi-stop usage was never allowable under the
Access-On-Demand program and that paratransit customers could not utilize the service. Unfortunately,
RTD cannot require Uber to turn off multi-stop functionality.
As a result, staff has to manually monitor service usage to ensure customers comply with program
regulations. In February 2024, Debra Johnson asked that I assume oversight of paratransit operations. I
have an extensive background in paratransit and demand responsive services expanding back nearly four
decades. When I assumed oversight of paratransit operations, CEO General Manager Debra Johnson
commissioned a peer review through the American Public Transit Transportation Association to examine
RTD, Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand programs.
As a bit of background, when a peer review is requested, APTA will compile a panel of subject matter
experts to assess specific aspects of an agency's operations. This assessment typically consists of a panel
interviewing subject matter experts, examining program data and information, and interviewing key
stakeholders, panel expert volunteers, their time, and effort to help improve operations, among other transit
systems. The Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand peer review commenced in April 2024.
As part of the preliminary process, APTA panel experts met with staff to prepare for the peer review. This
included reviewing work to be completed as part of the peer review, determined interview and work
schedules, and working through other logistics, such as travel, lodging, and workspace. In May 2024, the
peer panel conducted on-site interviews, collected data, and worked extensively to analyze paratransit
operations for a full week.
The peer review focused on identifying best practices employed by similar transit agencies, including
demand response programs, examining program parameters that included responsible cost controls, sound
customer facing processes, and reviewing software, hardware, and other tools to ensure optimal service
performance and program cost effectiveness.
Although the final report is very detailed, all the recommendations center around three major themes. First,
there is a need to develop a clearly-stated vision for paratransit to guide priorities for the Access-A-Ride
and Access-On-Demand services. Currently, the Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand programs
function pretty much as standalone programs instead of complementary programs to support each other
as initially designed.
Second, there is a need to refresh the Access-On-Demand program structure to create a fiscally sustainable
option that serves customer needs. When the Access on Demand program is first initiated, the monthly cost
of operations was roughly $75,000. The program has grown to over $1 million in monthly expenses. In
2022, The average cost per trip was roughly $10. The average cost per trip has grown to approximately
$16.50 per trip.

Currently, one third of Access-On-Demand service users consume about 70% of Access-On-Demand
services. Growth within the Access-On-Demand program is not operationally or fiscally sustainable. Third,
there is a need to leverage technology and process improvements to streamline daily work. From May
through August, the peer panel worked to develop a final report that included observations and
recommendations to consider that could improve Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand services.
The full report is available online at the website shown on the screen. Currently, about half of all active
paratransit service customers use Access-A-Ride only. About 15% of active paratransit customers use a
combination of Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand services. However, about 35% only utilize AccessOn-Demand services. In this case, an active user is a customer who has used either service in the past six
months.
As mentioned during the operation safety and security meeting earlier this month, Access-On-Demand was
intended to supplement Access-A-Ride services, taking some of the pressure off the Access-A-Ride
services itself. It was never intended to create a new service market. However, the Access-On-Demand
program does not require an upfront fare. It's not restricted to traditional ADA service boundaries or service
hours, has a fairly large subsidy per trip, and a fairly large number of trips provided per month. Thus, the
program has created a new service market.
One of the historical challenges with regard to Access-A-Ride service delivery was on time performance
reliability. Looking back three years, Access-A-Ride service delivery floated in the upper 70% range until
September 2023. In September 2023, staff integrated freeware with existing scheduling software, which
resulted in immediate on time performance pickup improvements, climbing to 90% on time service pickups
since March of 2024.
Going back to Access-On-Demand services, as previously mentioned, the program structure has resulted
in a new market for these services and rapid ridership growth since full inception of the Access-On-Demand
program. During early stages of the Access-On-Demand pilot program, ridership was roughly 6,000 trips
per month. By the time the program is open to the entire RTD service area, it had expanded. With expanded
service hours and providers, the program had already more than doubled in ridership trips with roughly
15,000 trips per month.
By August 2024, the program has grown to roughly 63,000 trips per month, roughly 10 times the size of the
initial pilot launched in 2021. As the number of trips provided increased, so did the monthly cost associated
with providing these trips. Monthly program costs during the initial pilot phase were roughly $85,000. The
monthly cost for the program remained fairly stable until trip caps were eliminated during the Zero Fare For
Better Air program in September 2022.
The Zero Fare For Better Air program drew increased trip usage. The program has grown to over $1 million
per month in program cost. Based upon current trip usage trends, it is anticipated that the monthly cost for
the Access-On-Demand program will grow to about $1.2 million per month by year end. The average trip
cost has also steadily been rising since the program's inception as customers leverage the $25 per trip
subsidy to take longer trips or to offset peak pricing by service providers.
I'm happy to turn the presentation over to John McKay now to discuss our 2024 customer satisfaction
survey results for our paratransit services.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. As introduced, I am John McKay, Executive Business Partner, and since about
March of this year, I've been dealing with survey information that we gather on a regular basis from

customers and community. so-- got you. Thank you. So, if we do that-- my name is John McKay, Executive
Business Partner. And I'll just walk you through the paratransit customer service data from 2024.
So between June 18 and July 19, RTD engaged with a third party contractor to conduct surveys for
paratransit customers, also for community members. This year, between-- so that was between June 18
and July 19. Just to note that the multi-stop trip function ceased in February of this year. This is an annual
survey that's conducted to assess satisfaction, determine customer characteristics, and understand key
drivers within the community. The survey went out to 400.
Well, we hope to get at least 400 completed surveys for this event, and actually had 528 surveys completed.
So this is a statistically valid survey so that we know that it's replicable if we were to do this again. Some
customer characteristics. The average Access-A-Ride customer is a person or Access-On-Demand
customer is likely to be a woman over 55 years of age. They identify as 62% to 63% white or Caucasian,
20% Black or African-American, and 12% to 13% Hispanic, Spanish or Latino. Latina, Latinx.
52% reported household incomes of less than $25,000. 62% use Access-A-Ride for most of their trips. 12%
use Access-On-Demand for most trips, and 46% use services for medical appointments. As you can see,
this was the 2023 overall satisfaction with both access Access-A-Ride and Access-On-Demand services.
And as you can see, both very satisfied and satisfied customers. That was about 71% of all Access-A-Ride
customers in 2023 were in that range from very satisfied to satisfied, about 17% neutral on the service, and
13% total either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied.
I'm moving on to Access-On-Demand, as you can see, 53% very satisfied, 32% satisfied. So overall, 84%
of folks were very satisfied with their Access-On-Demand service in 2023, and approximately 6% were
either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. Moving on to 2024, we can see that the numbers actually improved
for Access-A-Ride. So we went from-- let me go back one slide. So 13% overall were either dissatisfied or
very dissatisfied with Access-A-Ride service overall in 2023.
Moving forward, It's 5%, so that went down a significant amount. It's less than half of the number of people
who are either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with the service, and 80% of people overall are either very
satisfied or satisfied. Moving on to Access-On-Demand, we can see that 52% are very satisfied or satisfied
with the service, so that's a significant number. It's 86%, which in the customer realm, that is a fantastic
number. That's something that a lot of agencies and a lot of corporations would like to hit.
And again, year over year, it's about 6% of people who are either very dissatisfied or dissatisfied with the
service on the back, so it's just moved down 1% in the very dissatisfied range. And here's a better snapshot
of this. So from 2023 to 2024, overall satisfaction with Access-A-Ride increased by 9%, and then AccessOn-Demand actually just went up 1%, but that's still a pretty good number for 86% of overall satisfaction.
The Net Promoter Score is a figure that is used in the commercial markets that determines the number of
net promoters subtracting net detractors to get your overall score. This is not a percentage, it's just a
number. And you can see, in 2022, the number for Access-A-Ride was 42. In 2023, that went down to 20.
And then this year, it went all the way up to 59, which a fantastic number. In 2023, Access-On-Demand Net
Promoter Score was a 58, and then it went all the way up to 67 this year.
So these are both good figures. We can see from this that customers are generally very satisfied with the
services. And then, to look through some of the self-reported top most important things in Access-A-Ride
and Access-On-Demand service, this is for Access-A-Ride. In the customer surveys, we ask customers to
rate or to rank rather the importance of some of the factors associated with the service.

So at the top, vehicles arriving in the scheduled window is by far and away the most important thing that
customers say that they want to see in Access-A-Ride service, followed by fair price, ease of scheduling a
trip, travel time, and the ability to get to places they want to go. There are additional factors that are
cataloged on the site over there as well, ranging from feeling safely secured in the vehicle, all the way down
to timely resolutions of my questions, concerns, or complaints. That would be what customers report is their
least concern.
Moving forward to Access-On-Demand for 2024, fair price is the most important factor of Access-OnDemand service followed by vehicles arriving in the scheduled window. Also, ease of scheduling a trip, the
ability to get to places they want to go, and travel time overall. Doing a quick key driver analysis and just
for the sake of the audience, on the y-axis here, satisfaction rating, and this is reported based on survey
responses. So the higher on the y-axis, the more satisfied someone is with the service.
And then along the x-axis, the importance rating, the farther to the right, the more-- the farther it is to the
right, the more important it is to the person responding. And just to note, the key driver analysis is a
methodology used in commercial markets or consumer markets to identify the key drivers. And looking at
RTDs Access-A-Ride key drivers for 2024, we can see there's an ellipsis or, sorry, an elliptical blue blob
there on the screen. You can see that on the very far right.
A is vehicles arriving within the scheduled window. This is by far and away the most important factor that
customers of Access-A-Ride would like to see in using that service. So you can see that it's just below the
x-axis, so it shows that RTD can improve. And if RTD does put efforts in improving that factor, then
customers will be more satisfied over time. And then the other factor is travel time. That's the other one
within that elliptical window. That if RTD were to improve travel time, then we could increase customer
satisfaction.
Moving on to Access-On-Demand, also, fare price and travel time are the same two things. So we know
that if RTD were to be able to improve the fare price or the travel time, that would increase customer
satisfaction. And with that, I will turn the microphone over to Stuart.
STUART SUMMERS: All right, good evening. Introduced, I'm Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and
Engagement Officer, and I'm going to take you through some of our outreach and engagement efforts that
are currently underway and what we have planned over the next two months related to the peer review and
feedback from our customers. So, first and foremost, we talked about this at the committee meeting earlier
this month, but we have a focused paratransit customer survey.
So this survey is focused on current eligible customers who have been active in the system, used AccessOn-Demand or Access-On-Demand, any of our paratransit services in the last six months. We're putting
together a random stratified sample of those customers who use either Access-A-Ride, Access-OnDemand, or a combination of both of those services. It was important for us that we focused specifically on
our customers, individuals that are currently using the system and using these services, so that we can
hear directly from our customers who are active and eligible.
This will be a trade off study. So we're assessing what customers are willing to pay for different levels of
service that would be provided. The survey is going out this week. We have print copies that will be dropped
in the mail later this week, by the end of the week. Also, an online distribution through emails, if we have
the customer email available to us. This is just one of the surveys we have underway. The second one is a
transit agency survey.

So this will be a survey that we have sent out to 15 other US transit agencies that provide paratransit
services that was sent out earlier this month. We're gathering information about how these other agencies
across the country handle their fares and their services related to paratransit. Survey responses will be
collected through early October and then shared with the Board in November. Earlier this month, I
mentioned some of our online metrics and I want to just give some updates to those.
So on Monday, September 9, we sent an email to 10,315 of our paratransit eligible customers. This included
active and non-active customers. Maybe we'll switch mics. Perfect. Our active and non-active customers in
the system. Of that, 4916 of the customers opened that email, about 53%. They were invited to download
the peer review. Of that number, The final report has been downloaded 646 times as of about a week ago.
And then also the paratransit peer review web page, which I invite everybody to go check out. There's a lot
of frequently asked questions on there. There's information, timelines. That's had about 2,400 views as of
about last Wednesday. And then, we also sent out a pre-recorded message using our interactive voice
response phone system.
So for customers that don't have access to email or check their email regularly, we provided this automated
message to about 5,000 eligible customers, inviting them to also learn more about the paratransit peer
review and to call in and ask if they have follow up questions. We also put an online feedback form on that
web page. As of September 18, we've had 175 submissions on the online form. All of the feedback received
will be shared with the Board of Directors and made available to the public as part of the November cycle.
So what we would like to encourage is anyone that would like to provide feedback, anyone that has
information they'd like to share, things that may be relevant for consideration, please go on to that web
page and use that form to provide that feedback. All feedback will be collected and put into any of our
information as we're starting to put together plans for the future. We also are hosting a number of customer
and stakeholder meetings.
You heard earlier this evening about the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee meeting that was
held earlier this month. We also presented at the Operation Safety and Security Committee. This evening,
we're here at the board meeting. We have also meetings come up with ACPD and the Citizens Advisory
Committee next month, and then we have additional meetings planned for other stakeholder groups, both
virtual and in-person meeting options.
And then just to orient you back to this timeline that we shared at the board meeting, the committee meeting,
earlier this month, this feedback process will go through October. So we really want to make sure that
everybody has a chance to provide this feedback. Things like we heard this evening during the public
comment, all this information will be collected.
In November, all customer feedback received as part of the surveys, as well as the US transit agency
survey, and any feedback that's provided online or via email or any of these meetings that we provide will
be collected and shared with the Board. And then, any policy-related recommendations will be taken to the
Board for your consideration as part of the November cycle. And then, it is anticipated that any decisions
that are approved, action that's taken, will be implemented as part of the May 2025 service changes.
And with that, we'll be happy to answer any follow up questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the presentation. I appreciate it. General Manager CO
Johnson, anything you wanted to wrap up with?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you for the opportunity. I believe that staff did a great job. I have nothing to add.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. At this time, I'll open up for questions from Directors. I'll start
in the room and also watch online here. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. I have several questions and comments. This paratransit agency survey, are
you sending that to agencies that look like us to have both a base system and an AOD?
FRED WORTHEN: We have 15 different agencies that we are surveying that are of various sizes and
structure. Some are what we would consider peers themselves. Others are similar transit systems, but they
aren't part of what we would consider a peer itself, but there's 15 different agencies, different sizes, different
structures.
JAIME LEWIS: Well, the size doesn't concern me. I'm just concerned that we're looking at agencies that
have the same challenges that we do, having both a base system and on-demand. So I would hope at least
half of them have an on-demand system included in their. So are we talking six? Seven?
FRED WORTHEN: I couldn't give you the number straight off, but I can get that information for you.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. I just wanted to comment. I did address-- I attended the rodeo, the Bus Rodeo
about two weeks ago, and I got a chance to talk to some of our Access-A-Ride drivers and they were very
impressed with the QRyde software, which people don't know that's helping increase the efficiency of the
Access-A-Ride performance and I'm really excited about that.
And I just wanted to share that with you and also say that I'm looking forward to some anecdotal evidence
from some of our riders to make sure it's just not numbers. I want to hear from them, but I was hearing
some really great things about QRyde software dealing with the base system. Just to reiterate, we've had
a lot of testimony tonight. I just want to reiterate that ACPD, APAC, CAC, are other great opportunities for
our public to come and do testimony on this subject.
Now, two tough ones I'm going to share with you please don't take offense to it. But, we started off with
6,250 trips when we only did three zip codes and then we jumped to 62,750 trips. I hope I don't have to
remind this Board what our job is. Our job is to move people. And I hear this expression. new service
market. Yahoo. This is what we do, people. We move people. So if we have to move resources to make
sure this works, I think that's something that has to be considered as we go into these conversations.
I love the idea of a new service market. According to some of the numbers for next year, that we're going
to hear later, 2% increase in ridership. But yet, we see 6,250 to 62,750 rides, and I think it's still growing.
So please just keep that in mind as we go through this peer review, not to get upset with these numbers
exploding. This is what we do. We move people. The next one is going to be a tough one.
I see no nexus between Title VI, The Civil Rights Act, and RTD, saying the multi-stop cannot be used
because of disparity. The whole system of aid is not parity with the original system. Now, the Civil Rights
Act, if you read the executive summary, has no mention of ADA or disability in it. In fact, that point has been
brought up to me over the years that I've worked with CCDC. And I want to make it perfectly clear this is
way before your time, Debra, Way before anybody's time.
But it was told to me when we tried to present that ADA and people in paratransit were part of the Civil
Rights Act, we were told, no, you're not. So now, all of a sudden, we've reversed it. And now, we're hearing

that Title VI is the reason why we can't put the multi-ride issue on the table. I think the multi-ride issue has
to be on the table with the peer review. And I'm not going to get into an argument right now over this, but
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 has nothing to do with the operations of paratransit. Thank you, guys.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other questions from Directors? OK, great. Second Vice
Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you, and thank you for your comments. Sorry. Thank you for a great
presentation and for your comments, Director Lewis. The chart on pages 20 and 21. The charts show
monthly trips and total cost for Access-On-Demand. Do we have-- I don't think I saw the same data for
Access-A-Ride to see the monthly trips and the total cost. Do we have that data to compare?
FRED WORTHEN: We can provide that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. My understanding was that this is a much less expensive program,
and it sounds like it's becoming-- is that not changed? I mean, has that changed?
FRED WORTHEN: That's right. The cost per trip is cheaper. That is not disputable. The challenge that we
have, though, is that we have a program that is growing at a sustainable rate, an unsustainable rate that
we can't fiscally maintain. We're trying to restructure the program to make it fiscally sustainable and make
sure the program can't go away. This is not an ADA-mandated program. It's supplemental. It's important to
individuals, and we want to make sure that the program stays in place.
At the same time, though, the agency has a limited number of dollars and we have to make sure that we're
fiscally responsible, and that we provide the services to the best we can within the finances that we have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks that's great. Just to make sure I understand, we created it, I think, because
it saved us money and was better service for our customers. But now, it's not doing that. Is that right?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may. Debra Johnson. Thank you very much, Second Chair Guissinger, for the
question. So the point of the matter is it is providing service. However, the rub is as we go forward with the
exponential growth in the program in and of itself, and with the model in which we're utilizing, whereby fares
are covered up to $25 and you can take 60 trips per month, there has been a greater usage of the system.
And so, when you factor in all those monies versus the cost per Access-A-Ride, which is the paratransit
services, that's what's unsustainable as we go forward because we don't know what we don't know,
because there's not a framework associated with said program. And since I do have the floor, just to qualify
as it relates to the inequities of the system in reference to what Director Lewis said, I hear him loudly and
clearly, we operate from the vantage point of providing equity and services.
And for the point as it relates to Access-On-Demand, it's causing disparate treatment relative to our
services. When the prime word and what we do is public, not all the public can utilize Access-On-Demand.
If somebody needed a way of a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, they're not able to utilize it. And so, that's
where we talk about the Transit Equity.
Or when someone makes a public comment that we heard some months ago whereby somebody is utilizing
the services to go to a drive-through, when you use fixed route, which is a complimentary ADA service, as

you wouldn't be able to do that. So that's where the disparate treatment comes into play. So thank you very
much for the opportunity to clarify and qualify that.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may add on to the explanation too.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, it's not. But let me be clear. It's not Title VI disparate treatment. We're talking
about in relationship to the equitable services that we provide going forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. So, I do want to talk very briefly about some of the differences in the program, too.
As CEO Johnson said, we are trying to provide equitable services. 50% of our service users are Access-ARide only. They have to pay a fare up front when they ride our services. However, those who are on AccessOn-Demand do not. Those who use the Access-A-Ride are restricted to 3/4 mile corridor boundaries,
whereas those who are using Access-On-Demand demand are not.
They have to use services within our normal bus fixed route service hours. Those who have Access-OnDemand services do not. They have 24/7. So this is a service that is provided that is above and beyond
those that other individuals get. So we're, again, as Ms. Johnson is stating, we're trying to provide equity
throughout the programs and services that we deliver, as well as the Fiscal Responsibility that I spoke of
earlier.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's super helpful. Thank you. And the issue I in one of the timelines, it said that,
for instance, that wheelchairs were-- that Access-On-Demand started taking wheelchairs. But the issue is
that there are some people who can't use the Access-On-Demand. Is that right?
FRED WORTHEN: That is part of it. I guess that's the equity issue. That's part of it. But the other issue is
that the majority of the Access-On-Demand vehicles are not accessible, and Uber, Lyft and others really
have very few to no accessible vehicles. So we supplement the Access-On-Demand program with their
own paratransit vehicles to help provide wheelchair services to those who need Access-On-Demand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. So I mean, it sounds like, Mr Worthen, a lot of this goal is to make
sure that people are paying the same and looking in the same area, and that's the sort of thing we'll be
looking at.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes. Equity is a component of it. But again, program preservation is a big part of this
as well. We don't want to see this program go away. We see the value of this. We see what it does provide
for individuals, so we're trying to find that balance where we're providing services that meet the majority of
our consumers' needs, but again, are equitable and fiscally sustainable and operationally sustainable.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr Chair, and thank you for this excellent presentation. So we've heard
from some in the community that during the peer review process, that they did not believe that their voices
were heard, particularly in the paratransit community, that there was some voice in the process, but they
did not feel that the voice was sufficient during the peer review process, nor that some of them feel that
voice is continuing today. And so, what is your feedback on that?

ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe General Manager/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr Chair. I want to qualify the intent of an American Public
Transportation Association peer review. The notion behind the peer review was for them to provide us with
industry recommendations about how we could optimize and ensure efficiencies with the program. Hence,
we received that feedback from individuals that are leading very similar programs from across the country.
We looked at a subject matter experts, one in particular that has worked in a myriad of different states and
notably is now leading the largest paratransit program in the United States, which is out of New York City.
We also looked at a program in Southern California with the Orange County Transportation Authority, and
another at Pinellas, which is in Saint Petersburg, the greater Metropolitan area there. The reason I qualify
that is when we went forward, it was for us to be able to ascertain what might be optimal.
And what you just heard from my colleagues across from me is that we're utilizing that information to go
out to the community to ascertain what it should be. All the other peer reviews that we have conducted in
my tenure here basically were formulated in the same way because that is what peer reviews are relative
to APTA's guidelines and the framework. So I just wanted to ensure that there was a collective
understanding, that we weren't shying away from voices.
We were trying to create a framework whereby we could go out with intention, as you heard Mr. Summers
outline, to garner that feedback. So thank you very much, Mr Chair, and I'll yield the floor to my colleagues.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. And as Ms. Johnson elaborated on, most of the APTA peer review is an
operational review itself, looking at how we do things in particular. As we move forward, though, through
public outreach, we have an extensive public outreach. As Mr Summers stated, we are going out to different
committees, to different organizations to speak to them directly. I heard directly from APAC when I did a
presentation earlier this month, with regard to what is important to them.
We've also provided a number of mechanisms to the public to provide feedback. We have the surveys that
we've spoken of. We have the online feedback forum. And of course, we have the public meetings and
public hearings. And any recommendations that are brought forth to the Board will be subject to the Board
approval. I want to make it very clear, though, that the recommendations are not Fait accompli. They are
recommendations.
We will take a look at what serves the locality, the customers that we service and provide recommendations
that are as balanced as possible to meet some of the goals that I addressed with Director Guissinger based
upon our local circumstances itself. But this is something that is open to the public. There is a public
feedback mechanism. We'll be sharing that feedback with the Board and it will be very open and transparent
process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That's the General Manager. And thank you, that's very helpful, Fred. So
in terms of going forward, so we heard, Stuart, that you had sent a number of thousands of emails and
made phone calls, and then there is the form online so people can submit feedback and input. How many
times are we going to?
And we did discuss this somewhat. So, for the benefit of the general community who maybe weren't at our
operations committee, I did ask along the same lines, what is the second, third, and fourth contact we're
going to have with folks who may have gotten an email, who may have gotten a phone call, and just didn't

get to reading it, or maybe it went to their spam or they just haven't gotten to listen to the voicemail yet or
something like that?
So are we going to continue to contact folks who are paratransit users, who are in our database? And then,
also, are we adding to the number of folks who are in our database, so that we can continue to expand our
reach?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Summers.
STUART SUMMERS: Mr. Chair. Thanks, Director, for that question. So let me also reiterate, because I
know we had this conversation at the committee meeting. As new customers come on board, we are adding
them into our communication system. And so, just last week, I sent another round of emails out to new
customers within our paratransit system to ensure that they had this information, since they were additional,
since the first email went out in early September.
We are providing continual ongoing communications. I think we're up to about four or five different emails.
We're also here this evening. We're hoping that all of you will take this out to your constituents and share
this information. We heard from a number of our customers here during public comment that they're
communicating this with their colleagues and their friends and associates, and that's what we want. We
want this to really expand. We're hoping that all of you will help us with that information sharing.
But also, we will continue to provide phone calls, emails. We provided our call center with a script, so if
anyone calls in with questions related to paratransit, they can answer those questions. And then we're
encouraging everyone to check out the website because we're constantly adding additional answers to
questions that we hear when people call in and respond to emails and come to public comment. So we
want to make sure that we're trying to be highly communicative during the next 60 days.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you, Mr Summers. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I have some data questions. So maybe-- I'm hoping you all can answer this. But if not,
maybe we can get something in the future. But have we been able to-- have we been looking at the data
that we have for the roughly, however many trips there are a month, 69,000 trips. Have we been able to
look at those and take that data and then put the parameters that were recommended where we're saying
like 3/4 of a mile?
Can we put that data, put those parameters in there, look at that and see how many people would be
affected by those changes?
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Morgan, please?
FRED WORTHEN: That's a great question, Director Harwick. We do have a staff that is statistical. They're
statistical engineers, actually, that are helping us not only to put together the survey, but to also analyze
the information to have a better understanding of what our customers would like to see as well as the
impacts themselves. Being a former planner, I can tell you that there are some very clear curvatures. For
example, if you raise fare a certain percentage, you'd expect to lose a certain percentage of ridership.

On the flip side, if you reduce fare or increase frequency, you expect to see a gain in ridership. So our
statisticians are going to work with us moving forward to look at the different scenarios and project impacts
to both our customers and to our cost itself. So yes, we do, and that is part of the function that we intend to
do.
IAN HARWICK: Will we get that access to either an executive summary of what that looks like? Is that
possible?
FRED WORTHEN: I'm sure that we will be providing information, all the relevant to answer in those question
as when we come to the Board with recommendations. We'll talk about the survey findings. We will talk
about impacts. So we will have information available from those analysis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Director Hardwick. Yes. If we're going to present
information to the Board for its consideration, it will be very analogous to what we did with the fare study
equity analysis, what we did through the Code of. Conduct. I'm sorry, I had a brain lapse. So with that, we
will ensure that all of that is compiled. And I'll come in, Mr Summers, who's done a yeoman's job in providing
that information and consolidating it in such a way where it's easily understandable.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director, please?
IAN HARWICK: Can I Request-- so I imagine that-- What I'm hoping is that before the multi-stop was shut
off, we would have some data and know when people were doing multi-stop. And then afterward, we've
heard a lot of people from the audience that have utilized, have had to makeshift multi-stop, and I imagine
that the data would also be able to show that. And I wonder if there's a way to make sure that we're kind of
taking that into consideration with the data.
Like the gentleman that takes his kid to school and then has to call another Lyft or Uber, we'd be able to
recognize that within that time frame, that normally would have been a multi-stop. And I'm just curious if
we'll be able to get that as part of our data dump.
FRED WORTHEN: So, first and foremost, the multi-stop issue is something that has to be tracked manually
and it had to be tracked manually. But second, this isn't about ridership numbers or cost. This is about
equity and disparate treatment. I will not recommend something that engages the agency in disparate
treatment, regardless of numbers served, so this isn't a numbers thing. This is an equity issue.
IAN HARWICK: But it's an equity issue for companies, not for people. If they want to use Uber, they can
use Uber. Isn't it sort of like a self select into it?
FRED WORTHEN: We pay for those services, Sir, and I'd have to defer to our legal about the exposure.
IAN HARWICK: OK. But I'm just saying, I feel like that it's not personal equity. It's company equity, like
we're worried about companies, not people. That's what it feels like. If Uber is the one that allows multistops and we're saying that other companies can't match their technology, then the issue is not with Uber,
it's with the other companies not being able to match their technology, and anybody can download the Uber
app and use it. So we're saying not equity for people, we're saying equity for business.

FRED WORTHEN: I don't want to go too far into the weeds, Sir, but there have been issues through the
Justice Department that clearly define a lot of these issues. I'm happy to share them with you offline. But
this is-DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr Chair, can we continue on with the conversation because I don't believe
that this is appropriate at this juncture to talk about different issues with different entities. So, thank you.
IAN HARWICK: I just have one last question then and I'll leave that alone. Do we have a number that we
would like to-- that have this budget end up at?
FRED WORTHEN: I'm sorry, I'm-IAN HARWICK: Like at the eventual-- like right now, if we're spending $1.2 million a month over the course
of next year, that would be $14.4 million roughly. Do we know what the eventual budget we sort of feel
comfortable with or is that going to come in the report?
FRED WORTHEN: I think that will come in the report itself, as we start looking at the impacts on the
statistical analysis like we're talking about. We'll modify our projections. As I showed in the graph earlier,
we were projecting to be up to $1.2 million per month in program growth. But as we look at these
recommendations, we'll modify those projections for cost and ridership accordingly.
IAN HARWICK: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis. I'm going to go to other directors with their hands
up and then come back around for second. Secretary Guzman, please?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. This is hard work. This is not easy for the Board. I stay up with this problem
at night. So to my friends who are here listening to us and hearing how government works, I'm sorry, It's
frustrating, and I get it. But there's a fiscal reality we have to deal with, and an equity and justice issue that
we have to deal with as well. It's not easy. We are engaging with you and that's the promise from our agency
to you. So I am looking forward to that information.
Thank you for including the information about the breakdown of ethnicity within this report. I find that helpful,
at least for my area, so I can conduct business with my constituents in that way. I do have a question about
the timeline on which we're moving. If the goal is the May 2025 service change date, is that an arbitrary
goal that we have established for this timeline? Is there a necessary purpose for it? I would like to get to a
conclusion with this, but clearly we have heard that we should take time to look at it. So that's one question.
And the second question is. If we only look at data-based and data-driven decision making, it does take out
the humanity of what we're doing. And if our mission is to connect lives, then we need to take that into
consideration. We're dealing with human lives. And so, I'm not sure how to proceed at this juncture other
than to wait for the reports to come back after the engagement is done. But I am curious as to why we are
working on the calendar that we're working on. Was there any reason behind that? Is it just a date to work
with?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO Johnson, on the timeline?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So, thank you. So it was outlined as it relates to our service changes because,
quite naturally, when you look at Access-A-Ride, we look at that through the lens of complimentary services
within 3/4 of a mile of our fixed route system, so that's why we associated with that date there.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Lewis, thank you.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I'm going to have to put you guys on the record. So for the record, will the multi-ride
option be reviewed during this peer review process, considering we've talked about three things disparity
inequity, proper use of Title VI, and the question that this question was never asked of the pre-peer review
questions of people in our community. So I'm putting you guys on the spot. Will the multi-ride option be
reviewed during this peer review?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Most definitely. We're looking at the program in a holistic fashion, i.e. that's an element
of it. Getting back to the question posed with equity, as Mr. Worthen said, none of this is a fait accompli at
this juncture. We have to do our due diligence based upon the input that we have received from subject
matter experts across the country. But I think the broader issue to the point that was raised just by Secretary
Guzman, you have data sets, but we are focused on moving people, so that's a balancing act.
And what we're balancing and what we're going to do as staff is our due diligence to provide key data in
different elements that we will put forward for this body's consideration, because quite naturally, we have
to ensure what we're putting forward is sustainable. And at this juncture, with the inability to have a focused
transportation network for all people that we can't sustain is not being good fiduciaries. So I just wanted to
qualify that.
But it is our intent to get feedback and figure out because right now, to the point that Director Harwick, I see
your point, but still, our focus is on moving people and we're utilizing a third party entity that is private. So
with that, we have that responsibility to ensure that we can move people and do it with in a balanced budget
as well. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just briefly, I'm glad to hear also that we're looking at the issue of multi-stops. It
sounds like it's important to a lot of people who have come in and talked with us, and I'm wondering if it's
possible to divide that second half. Maybe we don't pay the second half, but people could do it. And I don't
know if that solves their problem or not, but it seems like it might be one thing to look at.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Dr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Chairman. I just want to clarify one issue, because I'm not
always able to hear everything that is being said. To be clear, the concern regarding disparate treatment
and inequity is a concern that the agency, that RTD, is imposing on this analysis, not one that is imposed
upon us by applicable law. Is that correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chair, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: That's what I needed. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale, Ms. Johnson. Not seeing other hands raised, I
did have two questions here. I think they might be linked. Mr. Worthen, you had mentioned when going
through slide 12, packet page 18, this is where we were looking at the paratransit customers by service and
usage Access-A-Ride only, as opposed to Access-On-Demand only or using both services.
You had made a comment about when we created Access-On-Demand, part of the intent was to relieve
some of the stress on the Access-A-Ride system. And I'm curious just in terms of looking back and
apologies if I missed this at any point, but in looking back at how the numbers shaped up. So looking at, for
example, our Access-A-Ride only customers at 2,798, did we see any of those trends? In other words, the
blue portion of the pie chart, which is 825 that use both services, can we see trends where there was some
relief on the Access-A-Ride system?
Or another comment that was made is that we perhaps have added a new segment of customers to the
system. Is that primarily what happened? Is it a little bit of both? And do we have some idea of what the
weighting of that is?
FRED WORTHEN: It's a little bit of both, and it's very hard for me to be able to tell exactly whether a person
would have taken a trip or not based upon Access-A-Ride or Access-On-Demand parameters itself. The
15% though, I think is a mix of individuals. Some trips may have been taken that might not have been taken
otherwise, whereas other ones are trips that-- they're using it as an alternative to Access-A-Ride, So I think
it's somewhere in that 15% range. The number lies somewhere in there.
But it's very hard to know exactly what it is without knowing people's intent of a trip itself.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, that's fair. Thank you for the additional context on that. The question that I think
might be linked is then looking at packet page 20 or slide 14, that was looking at the monthly trips that we've
been referring to, the 62,750, which is a then, of course, linked to the cost. There's a pretty dramatic
increase there relative to where the number of customers are. So looking at the trips versus the customers
with the 1,973 Access-On-Demand demand only.
I'm assuming, in the early phases, we saw growth in not only the trips but growth in the user base as well.
And then, we saw explosive growth in the trips. How does the-- and it's OK if this is follow up, but how does
the growth in users of the system correlate or not correlate to the growth in trips?
FRED WORTHEN: It's a mixed bag. The growth in users has gone up, but as I pointed out, also, the amount
of usage by users has changed. About 30% of our customers that use Access-On-Demand are consuming
about 70% of the service trips that you're seeing there. So you have a small percentage that is using a very
large volume of trips themselves. When we really start looking at the average user, out of the 60 trips per
month, I'd have to go back and look to be exact, but I believe the average user is somewhere around 20
trips per month.
And please don't hold me to that. I can give you exact numbers if you'd like. But we do have individuals
also that do use all 60 trips per month. And I think that you've seen a mix and growth in both the users and
in how the trip is being used itself.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. And just I guess a follow up on that. Are we seeing any leveling off of
the growth of, not the trips, I know you commented on that, It's a little hard to forecast at this point, but any
leveling off of the growth of user base or has it been-FRED WORTHEN: It's been steadily growing.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you for that. And no need to follow up right away with some of those. I think
those would just be some data points I'd be interested in when we follow up and are making some policy
considerations, when we're looking at that.
The final thing I'll just comment on is switching gears. Mr. McKay, thank you for presenting again the survey.
I think one thing I note on here is we're getting to see the key driver analysis at work in terms of on-time
performance, being one of the key drivers in focus areas, the dramatic improvement in 2024, and the
resulting improvement on not just those that are satisfied, but as you noted, the dramatic decrease in
dissatisfaction.
So thank you for the work on that, not only, of course, all those involved in paratransit delivery and improving
that with the QRyde software, but also for the analysis itself and considering those key drivers when we
determine what our priorities are. So thank you for that across the whole organization, not just here. With
that, thank you very much for the presentation. It's very helpful. We look forward to seeing more data and
information linked to that. We look forward to seeing the results.
Mr. Summers, thank you for all of the outreach that's being done. Thank you for bringing an eye towards
data on that as well in terms of who we have engaged with. We look forward to deeper analysis on this in
policy considerations at a later date. Thank you. All right. At this time, We are going to switch gears. I'll give
a moment here. We're going to move to our committee reports. As a reminder, we were a little out of order
here tonight.
We wanted to make sure to get that discussion item, which was an important and meaty item handled
earlier in the agenda. We'll start with the audit committee. I do not believe at this time Director Dishell is
present. I'll just offer that the audit committee will be having a meeting that is moving, I believe, into
November. So please look forward to some forthcoming information there.
I can share that not only will we be reviewing some of the results of the most recent internal audits, but also
the plan is to add a discussion item, to do a look back and look at how the audit committee has been
performing, how the internal audit function has been performing, look at opportunities to further improve
that work. As we all know, that was a big change that we made several years ago. And so, it's incumbent
upon us to take a step back. I'm very delighted that we've had an internal audit function operating.
But now, we need to take a step back and look at it and see if it's serving the purposes that we'd like it to.
So, look for the results of some internal audits and that discussion item. Next, we'll move to the Finance
and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do you have anything you would like to report?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, I'd like to defer to the Finance and Planning Committee Vice Chair
Guzman, who chaired the meeting that we had last week.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. That's right. Committee Vice Chair Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee met on September 10.
Thank you for the opportunity to lead that meeting. We had to stay on track. That was my goal, to try and
finish in a timely manner to get to a big event that happened. We moved through to unanimous consent to
items the 29th and Wilton property disposition request to extend the timeline. And we also moved forward
the five year fiscal, sorry, the five year financial forecast from 2025 to 2029. We'll see those later.

Robust conversation, but we stayed on regarding that. There was a discussion item regarding the 2025
investment policy. And just to note that the next meeting of the Finance and Planning Committee will be
October 8, 2024. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Next, I'll go to the Operations Safety and Security Committee.
Committee Chair Whitmore, do you have anything you would like to report?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Mr Chair. We met on 09/11/2024 and two items are on the unanimous
consent agenda that we passed unanimously, the Near Term Downtown Rail Reconstruction legal services
contract, and also the budget transfer for wheel truing replacement of that equipment. We also had two
very good discussions. Public Transportation Agency Safety plan was presented by Sky Mott. I believe that
was his first report to us in that role. That report, better known as PTAS is very important.
So, we did go over the 25 plan very thoroughly. And also, as you heard, we had a presentation on the
paratransit peer review that was very robust, much like our conversation here tonight. Our next meeting,
Wednesday, 10/09/2024. Be there or be square.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Committee Chair Whitmore. Next is the Performance Committee Report.
Committee Chair Catlin, do you have anything you'd like to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. The committee has met a couple of times. We're continuing
our work on developing the 360 assessment tool. I believe that we have settled on reviewers for that 360
tool. There will be a meeting on Thursday to go over the random selection process for external reviewers
as well as direct reports.
The Board has three reviewers that will be selected, and it was decided that Chair Davidson and I would
select those reviewers and we were looking at this with an eye toward the future, not just this year. And we
thought that the best way to move forward would be to have the committee chairs, that being the chair of
Finance, the chair of Operations and Safety and security and the chair of Performance be the initial 360
reviewers.
Bearing in mind that these 360 reviews were not prescriptive, they were really meant to inform. So I have
asked the chairs of the committees, that being Tisdale and Whitmore, if they would kindly participate in this
360 review process, and they agreed. I was reluctant to self appoint and had asked Vice Chair Guissinger
if she would like to be acting in my stead, and she is very occupied right now with some other matters. And
so, she suggested that I go ahead and assume my role as chair.
So the three reviewers, again, will be, and thank you for agreeing to participate in this, will be Tisdale,
Whitmore, and myself. Again, we have a meeting Thursday to talk a little bit more about that and we have
some subsequent meetings to refine the actual questions that will go into the 360 review. In the meeting
minutes, you can find a schedule of activities. RKL is proceeding with their work on this, and we've received
a number of presentations both on the 360 review process as well as the compensation review analysis.
So if you'd like to review that information, feel free to go to the board packet. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. I see, Director Whitmore, your hands raised. Please
go ahead.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one added note, if Jack would remind us of a deadline for all board members in
this process is rapidly approaching.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Unfortunately, I don't have a microphone that works right now. But, yes, we emailed
out. So there are two things that-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead, Neil. I'll hold for a mic.
JACK KROLL: Sorry to do that.
SPEAKER: No, no, it's fine.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: We have issues with the microphones in this room, as we have noticed. And we actually
believe that it might be relative to the frequency that they use. It's the only thing we can figure out. We've
tested them in a number of places, but that's neither here nor there. There is two processes that are
occurring concurrently here, and I don't want Directors to get confused. There's the 360 and then there's
the final assessment of the GM and CEO.
Last week, I emailed to all Directors and the GM and CEO a draft board assessment that you all will
complete subsequent to the 360. So only a select number of Directors are completing the 360 and providing
feedback there, but all directors will complete the final assessment form or rather have an opportunity to do
so. I emailed that draft assessment to you all for review and input. In that, we are asking for your feedback
on no later than October 2.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for offering the additional context and feedback there. All right,
we'll now move on from the committee reports. We'll move to the approval of the board meeting minutes
and committee reports. The board and committee minutes were included in the board packet. Are there
any corrections from Directors for the minutes to be approved this evening? OK, unless there is any
objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, I will ask for a motion to approve the minutes for
the following meetings.
Board of Directors special board meeting July 30, 2024, Board of Directors board meeting July 30, 2024,
Board of Directors special board meeting August 2, 2024, Performance Committee August 8, 2024,
Performance Committee September 9, 2024, Finance and Planning Committee September 10, 2024,
Operation Safety and Security Committee September 11, 2024, Performance Committee September 16,
2024, Board of Directors study session September 18, 2024, Executive Committee September 19, 2024,
and Executive Committee. September 2024.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Tisdale as the movant, Guissinger as the second. Any discussion? Are there any
no votes? Seeing none, I do need to take stock of what our current attendance is. I'm not seeing the online
Zoom.
- Do you--

JACK KROLL: I believe so. Yeah. We haven't. We lost, I think, Bouquet. No, Bouquet is still here. So we
have Catlin and Bouquet online plus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Yeah. So I think you're 13.
ERIK DAVIDSON: 13. OK. Thank you. It's just not seeing all Directors out there. Great. Thank you. That's
13 aye votes to 0 no votes, and two absent, and that will pass. All right, this time, we'll move to the Chair's
report, followed by the General Manager's report. So first of all, I'd like to start by thanking General Manager
and CEO Johnson and the entire team for the continued efforts in navigating challenges and opportunities.
This year in 2024, a particular thank you, as we got to hear in public comment, to the RTD maintenance of
way team for the continued resilience and hard work into the night, moving quickly and persistently adapting
to RTD's increased preventative maintenance standards introduced over the summer. Thank you to all of
those on the RTD impact teams as well, those who have volunteered to join the impact teams out in the
field to directly help customers navigating many of these challenges.
And thank you to all involved for the expedient and ahead of schedule completion of our coping panel
maintenance, as well as the downtown rail reconstruction, which is complete despite many of the
maintenance challenges that we had faced over this summer. So I thank you to the entire team for making
that possible and working together.
And on a related note, I would once again like to thank our customers and members of the public for their
continued patience and resilience through this summer and in an important time when RTD is taking on
deferred but essential maintenance to ensure that the system is not just here for us, but is here for
generations to come, is well taken care of and safe. We are working at RTD to serve you, the customers,
as best as we possibly can. We are learning from our mistakes.
We are doubling down where we are strong. We are listening, and we thank you for continuing to stick with
us and move around throughout the system. I'd like to highlight for my colleagues and members of the
public a few highlights from our September board briefing document stating some things around the state
of the agency. As of July 2024, RTD's year-to-date sales and use tax revenue stood at $487.4 million. That
is 6.7% below the budgeted $522.4 million.
Sales and use tax for reference is effectively flat versus last year and is up 0.1%. On the expense side,
year-to-date operating budget, year-to-date operating expenses as of July 2024 stood at 442.1 million,
which is 13.9% below the budgeted 513.4. So we don't have any concerns related to the shortcomings in
sales and use tax. But I think, I would speak for all of us in saying we should pay attention to where those
trends are relative to the forecasts that this board considers as we adopt and contemplate budgets.
Some additional things to highlight as of July 2024, year-to-date ridership was at 41.2 million boardings.
That's 7.3% below budget, although it is 5.3% growth up over last year. Bus operations in July 2024 had a
service availability of 99.69% and on-time performance of 81.18%. Light rail operations in July 2024 had a
service availability of 99.13% and on-time performance of 71.23% That is notably down due to the track
maintenance as previously mentioned related to our slow zones.
For reference, the year-to-date on-time performance for light rail stands at 85.8% as of July. commuter rail
operations in July 2024 had service availability of over 98%, and on-time performance of the A, B and G
were 93.8%. In the N Line, it was 97.6% For reference, year-to-date on-time performance is 95.6% and
97% respectively. I'd also like to address and thank all of those in our people operations and human
resources for the tremendous work that's been done working on our recruitment and retention.

RTD's light rail operator vacancy ratio as of July 2024 was at 15% with 30 vacancies. That's a marked
improvement. The bus operator vacancy as of July 2024 was 4.73% with 45 vacancies. So once again,
thank you to the work that's been done there. I'd also like to acknowledge the outreach that RTD continues
to do and thank our team for continuing to measure that and report on that. There are many things that we
participate in, but our direct engagement stands at 27,120 customers and members of the public year-todate..
Thank you for that continued engagement and taking that approach. I'd also wrap here by letting my
colleagues know a few things here. First of all, I'd just like to let the board know of a few changes to our
external entities appointments at the end of the year here on the Board. The updated primaries serving and
attending the Denver Regional Council of Governments, Regional Transportation Committee, are now
Directors Broom, Buzek, and Guzman. The alternates are now Directors Harwick, Ruscha, and Whitmore.
I wanted to just highlight that for everybody to be aware. Once again, thank you to the entire team at RTD,
Board, staff and all of our customers for perseverance and teamwork through the summer. And finally, I'll
highlight for Directors and members of the public, I look forward to joining our General Manager and CEO
Johnson tomorrow to present to the Transportation Legislation review committee for RTD's annual
presentation. So with that, I'll conclude my remarks and report. I'd like to hand off now to our General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson, to please share her report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr Chair. Once again, Debra Johnson. Good evening, and I
would like to thank you on behalf of all employees for the acknowledgment of the work that you do, to
amplify the acknowledgment that you just reported. (LAUGHS) as I was trying to say, thanks on behalf of
all of us, we appreciate it. (LAUGHS) So, this evening, I will share a few highlights of activities and strategic
endeavors since our most recent monthly board meeting on Tuesday, July 30.
The report activities that I cite will basically be centered around our strategic priorities and our strategic
initiatives. So as I fast forward relating to community value, on Wednesday, July 31, I engaged in a Policy
Forum held by the Boulder Chamber of Commerce as the forum's keynote speaker.
My remarks focused on the new transit landscape and operational realities across the industry, transit
services being delivered to Boulder, policy changes that emerged from the 2024 state legislative session,
and information related to the Northwest Rail peak service feasibility study. Boulder Mayor Aaron Brockett,
Boulder County Commissioner Claire Levy, and Representative Julie [INAUDIBLE] also participated in the
forum. And of course, Mr. Chair, and our Second Vice Chair were in attendance as well. So thank you very
much for your support.
On Thursday, August 1, staff participated on my behalf in a virtual interview with representatives from the
US Government Accountability Office. The interview was part of the GAO's information gathering efforts
related to commuter rail funding and operations as a follow up to the 2021 Commuter Rail Report. It's
important to note, as was discussed at our study session that we had last week, that there is not a direct
federal funding mechanism for commuter rail, unlike there is for intercity passenger rail.
And so, that's why the GAO has basically leaned into this, recognizing that I did have the opportunity last
year to represent my colleagues across the country and Commuter Rail service delivery to testify before a
subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee about this point.
In relation to this effort, the GAO staff were specifically interested in discerning how Commuter Rail
operations and funding sources have changed since the COVID-19 pandemic and how commuter rail

agencies measure operating cost efficiency and how, if at all, efficiency has changed since the COVID-19
pandemic. Later that day, I, along with Director Tisdale and Rosenthal and members of my team, attended
the Denver Business Journal 25th annual Outstanding Women in Business Awards celebration dinner,
where I was humbled to be recognized as a 2024 awardee.
The event celebrates women business leaders who drive change, deliver results, and inspire their
communities within the Denver Metro region. I, along with members of staff as well as Tara Davidson,
participated in a Legislative Audit committee meeting on Monday, August 5. During this meeting,
representatives of the Office of the State Auditor presented findings and recommendations derived from a
fiscal governance audit of RTD performed between June 2023 and July 2024.
The audit covered topics ranging from cost efficiency metrics, capital asset projects, and budget funding,
sorry, budget filing requirements to strategic plan updates, and the onboarding of new board members.
During this meeting, OSA staff reported that RTD had met all nine of the state's financial health ratios, and
RTD agreed to implement recommendations related to process enhancements and data reporting, among
other elements.
On Tuesday, August 27, I participated in a panel discussion that took place during the eighth annual
Sustainable Transportation Summit hosted by Commuting Solutions, which was held in Longmont. I was
joined on the panel by Dennis Newman, Amtrak's Executive Vice President of Strategy and Planning. Chris
Nevitt, the Chair of the Front Range Passenger Rail District Board of Directors, and Westminster mayor
Nancy McNally.
The panel was moderated by Andy Karsian, who serves as the General Manager of the Front Range
Passenger Rail District, and panelists discussed the future of passenger rail service delivery to the
Northwest corridor and collaboration among RTD, the Front Range Passenger Rail District, as well as the
Colorado Department of Transportation. Governor Jared Polis, CDOT Executive Director Shoshana Lew,
Longmont Mayor Joan Peck, Senate President Steve Fenberg, and Sound Transit's Director of Government
Community Relations, Katie Jewell also participated.
On Wednesday, August 28, I, along with members of staff, many of you sitting around this dais, also
attended the 2024 Denver Regional Council of Governments Award celebration. This annual celebration
recognizes individuals for their distinguished service to the region, as well as individual contributors,
projects, programs, and collaborations that have advanced progress toward the region's metro vision,
goals.
The agency received recognition for the systemwide fare study inequity analysis, and I was proud to join
Bill Sirois, who serves as our Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities, and Carl Green, Jr.
Director, of Civil Rights on stage to accept the award on RTD's behalf. On Friday, September 13, I traveled
to Portland, Oregon to support our own Director and Secretary Michael Guzman, who was there to give his
capstone project presentation as a member of the 2024 class of Latinos in Transit Leadership Academy, or
we call it LITLA.
Academy participants gained an in-depth understanding of public transportation and learned about
management practices, finance, procurement, labor relations, and regulatory compliance. And as research
efforts, Director Guzman worked alongside Director Ramiro Navarro, Jr. For from the Salem area Mass
Transit District, also known as Cherriots, and their work focused on best practices for orientation and
onboarding of new Transit Board members.

The outcome of their research has now informed RTD's own onboarding and orientation planning efforts
for the incoming class of soon-to-be elected board members later this year. The following day, on Tuesday,
August 6, I engaged with participants in the Mineta Leadership Academy, an immersive three-day
leadership program that was held here at the Blake Street administrative offices.
The Mineta Transportation Institute, for those of you that are not aware, is a research body focused on
transit or issues, I should say, related to intermodal surface transportation in the United States and as part
of San Jose State University's Lucas Graduate School of Business. The Institute's Leadership Academy is
devoted to developing exceptional public sector leaders to serve the transportation industry, and this gets
back to a question that Director Lewis asked during Performance Committee, I believe, about how we're
investing in individuals relative to organizational development.
The Academy provides individuals in mid-level to senior management positions with opportunities to
improve leadership skills, enhance their leadership competencies, and work with peers and mentors in the
transportation industry. In total, 27 RTD employees were able to participate in this professional development
opportunity, and I'm proud to serve as a leadership fellow to the Mineta Transportation Institute. The rail,
snowplow, and bus rodeos were held on Saturday, August 10th, Friday, August 23, and Saturday,
September 14, respectively.
Witnessing operators, mechanics, and service workers testing their skills in the heat of competition is
always a thrill for me. These annual competitions allow employees incredible passion for their work to shine
through, and I thoroughly enjoy taking part in these festivities each year. My congratulations to this year's
participants and to the winners of each event. Moreover, I extend my gratitude to all those who participated
and to the volunteers who made each event a success.
And my special thanks to those directors that were able to pop in and show their support of our colleagues
who work very diligently each and every day. So with that, Mr Chair, I conclude my report and I yield the
floor to you. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager/CEO. Dr. Lewis, your question?
JAIME LEWIS: I just want to make a comment. I thought the workshop we did last week with the North Rail
and your staff was fantastic. It was finally, I think, became clear for all of us exactly where we stand and
what the other parties have to do to make this work, possibly. But I just wanted to extend my thank you to
staff because that was a great presentation. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just want to say thank you very much for that acknowledgment because I share it
with them. They knocked it out of the park because it was all the work that has been going on for the past
20 months for all intents and purposes, and just coming together. And I really think it showcase our mindset
here of a one RTD approach as opposed to departments doing things inter, not interdependently, but I
should say in a siloed fashion. So I appreciate that acknowledgment that was very visible. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director. Thank you. Completely agreed. Excellent session. You might
say we have developed a common set of facts.
[LAUGHTER]

With that, we will-- thank you very much for your report. General Manager/CEO Johnson. As always, I
appreciate the update. We will now move to the unanimous consent portion of the agenda. There are four
items on the unanimous consent agenda listed as actions A, B, C, and D. Those are, A, 29th and Welton
property disposition time extension, B, 2025 to 2029 5-year financial forecast or FIFE, C, near term
downtown rail reconstruction, legal services, contract amendment, and, D, approval of budget transfer for
wheel truing machine replacement.
If anyone has a change to or discussion or questions about these items, please feel free to advise me at
this time and I'm happy to pull it from the unanimous consent for consideration under recommended action.
All right, seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
TROY WHITMORE: Moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Whitmore as the movant. And the second as Tisdale. Are there any no votes on
this action? All right, seeing none, with 13 ayes, zero no, and two absent, that motion will pass. We'll now
move to the recommended action portion of our agenda. There are four recommended actions on the
agenda. These are listed as E, F, G, and H. The first action is item E. This is for the federal lobbying services
contract scope of work.
First of all, I should clarify that many of these recommended actions, including this one, did come through
Executive Committee. And as per our bylaws, anything that comes through Executive Committee, even if
it is unanimous, does come before the board here. So this first item is for the Board of Directors to approve
the summary scope of work for a solicitation and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO
to enter into a contract for federal lobbying services. Do I have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
IAN HARWICK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Rosenthal, the movant, and second is Harwick, I believe. All right, any questions
on this matter? We're joined by Mr. Michael Davies. Yes, Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Chairman. A note of clarification, as the recommended action
reads, this is not simply the approval of the summary scope of work for the solicitation. It is the authorization
then, for the General Manager to select a lobbyist and to enter into that contract, whereas our delegation
resolution does not provide for that, so it's a change from that. And I just want to emphasize that for the
sake of the record, in case anybody may have missed that.
They probably didn't and I'm probably exaggerating the point, but I think it's worth noting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale, for the note, and yes, for clarification, that is the intent of
the recommended action, is to approve the summary of work, then enter the solicitation, go through the
procurement process, and yes, ultimately enter into that contract. That is correct. All right, seeing no further
questions, are there any no votes?
DOUG TISDALE: No.

ERIK DAVIDSON: We have one no vote, Director Tisdale. Seeing no further no votes, that is 12 aye votes,
one no vote, and that will pass. Thank you, Mr Davies, for joining us. We will now move to our second item.
This is item F. This is Board Operating Guidelines amendments regarding communication with staff and
clerical matters. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt amendments to the Board, Operating Guidelines
regarding communication with staff and additional substantive and copy edits. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Guzman as the movant, the second is Whitmore. Any discussion? Yes, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you. Chair Davidson, I appreciate the opportunity to speak, and I also
appreciate there's been considerable work that has gone into these amendments to the operating
guidelines. I approved the idea that it's mutual respect between staff and board members and the intent. is
commendable. But I would like to make a few comments on the wording, and this particularly goes to packet
page 126 through 127.
Unquestionably, staff are the transit experts. They know transit and we can rely on them. But also, board
members, on the other hand, are regarded as the pipeline to our constituents. And as this acknowledges,
we are committed to dialogue with our constituents. It's an important part of the board members job,
particularly since we are elected board members. And so with that in mind and under that lens, I would like
to make some comments on the language on page 127.
For instance, the first bullet point is a great idea to have. Ideas go through the Board Office and have board
track it. I would like to see a commitment of getting a response to the board members as well as tracking.
And in fact, in some circumstances, to have the board member who raised it participate in the discussion
of the item that came up. Another is to communicate when practical with the GM/CEO, when direct staff
communications are necessary or desired.
We have carried around this yellow card that shows numbers for the senior leadership team since our
service on the board. It seems, yes, the GM/CEO should be involved in these discussions, but I also believe
board members should be permitted to have direct staff communications with the senior leadership team.
Another is to focus requests and inquiries on matters that inform policy decisions. We all understand our
role as Directors.
But as elected directors, we get questions from stakeholders and customers who experience RTD at bus
stops, train stations, on buses, and train seats along routes that they are experiencing. They know that we
have been elected and expect a response on those issues. So focusing on matters of policy does not fit
with that part of the board's role. And finally. I think there was something else.
And anyway, in some, I believe the current guidelines do not minimize that aspect of the board members
role and that this does. And for that reason, I am going to vote no, because these would interfere with board
effectiveness in serving their constituents. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan, for the comments. If I may react briefly. I think it's important
for us to look at what the Board Operating Guidelines are and what they're not, and considerable thought
went into this. The Board Operating Guidelines are not a bylaw, that this is really a commitment. And it

starts with a board commitment. That does state that we're committed to public transit and the strategic
goals of the Regional Transportation District.
And from there on, everything falls out regarding how we commit to show up. And I think what we
encountered here, there's a number of things that have been drafted prior to us and updated while we've
been here regarding governance and policy setting, regarding meeting efficiency, communication during
meetings, et cetera. What we have added here is-- I think we just have a-- we can ignore the voting on the
screen.
But what we have here was adding how we show up with respect to communicating with staff. And what
we had talked about in Executive Committee when we went through this was that there were opportunities
to leverage the agency response system that the Board Office has created in recognition that we have 15
directors all sending in requests, oftentimes through very different means of communication. And what we
identified was a way to help our Board Office in organizing those communications and structuring those
and bringing them back to us.
I think one of the most important things that we could do with the agency response system is contained
within the final bullet of the new section that was added on packet page 127, which is to review, on a semiannual basis, the volume in nature of requests being sent to staff by the Board. The agency response
system gives us the ability to do that, so we can partner with our Board Office and help them.
With regards to the communication with staff, again, I think it's important for us to be mindful that we're 15
Directors and we have hired a General Manager and CEO that we delegate authority to. And sometimes,
the comparison has been made around a mayor and a city manager, and that we work to, when practical,
bring those communications to the General Manager and CEO or those that she delegates and designates
to whom the Board would communicate.
So, I wanted to make very clear that that item is meant to afford the flexibility to both Board and General
Manager and CEO to make sure that we are partnering with each other and dialoguing about
communications that are appropriate. I would suggest that this would make a good standing retreat topic
when it comes to having 14 board members and one General Manager and CEO to agree upon those
things.
But I did just want to highlight, and Director Sloan, I hear the concerns and I think they're very well stated
in terms of our role in engaging with the public. The Genesis of this was more around how the Board shows
up and how we communicate and organize our communications with staff. So I just wanted to state that
intent and completely understand the disagreement on perspectives. Second Vice Chair Guissinger,
please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I hear both of your positions. I had occasion to have this
conversation with Ms. Johnson somewhat today and with the chair. I also share some concerns. I think we- I also was talking with the transportation staff of some of my communities today and I think there are
needs that aren't answered by these guidelines. And I agree with you, it needs to go back to the retreat. I
may join. I'm wavering on where I vote here.
As you've all heard, I've had concerns about this issue for a while. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further comments? Questions? OK, I'm going to call a roll vote on this.
Give me a moment to pull that up. Treasurer Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Caitlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That is 10 yes, three no, and the remainder
are absent. That will pass. Thank you. Yes, agreed. Good discussion. We will now move on to our next
recommended action.
This is item G, support of ballot measure 6a and delegation of Director Tisdale to vote on 6a on RTD's
behalf. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a position of support on city and County of Denver. Ballot

question 6a and for the Board of Directors to designate Director Douglas Tisdale to cast RTD's vote on 6a.
Do I have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Guzman as the movant, Lewis as the second. Is there any discussion on this?
Yes, Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: I just have a conflict of interest, not maybe. More it's a question, if I have one. If the DDA
passes, there are potentially projects that I will not like sign off on, but will affect me in my day job that I
may be advocating for. So I just want to confirm that I'm OK to vote yes on this. And if I'm not, I just need
to make sure I'm abstaining correctly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General counsel, I see you. Would you like to go ahead?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Director Harwick, I think you're clear to vote on this. But just for future reference,
to the extent you have, any director has any questions about whether you have a conflict, just consult me
in advance. And then, also, you wouldn't-- if you're going to abstain, you would just abstain from the outset
and you wouldn't talk about any the nature of your conflict.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Not seeing other questions, I just would defer. We had a good
presentation on this from Director Tisdale and some discussion around it at the Executive Committee. That
is worth a look. At this time. I'll ask, are there any no votes? Seeing none, that's 13 yes, zero no, that will
pass. And the final action, H, is for the ratification of the appointment of Director Jaime Lewis to the
Performance Committee.
This is for the Board of Directors to ratify my appointment as Chair of Director Jaime Lewis to the
Performance Committee pursuant to its vacancy. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Tisdale as the movant and Catlin as the second. Any discussion? Thank you,
Director Lewis, for being willing to fill the position that was recently made vacant. Are there any no votes?
All right, seeing none, that will be 13 yes, zero no, and that will pass. All right, this time we'll go to report of
Director activities. Would anyone like to report on their activities for August or September? I thought so.
Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. It is National Hispanic Heritage Month. And so, the Latinos and
transit community meets has their summit. It is announced that they will be doing their summit next year in
Albuquerque, New Mexico. I'm looking forward to that. But this year, with a lot of help.
And thank you to the Board Office staff who helped me, to Stuart Summers and to Madame General
Manager CEO, who both helped me connect with the right people, advised the research that I was working
on with Director Ramiro Navarro and to all the staff for their time and their insistence on getting this right,
which I am grateful for, and the participation of directors across the country. And when I say across the
country, I mean North, South, East and West.

We had a lot of work going on to figure out how to onboard, train, welcome, orient, new directors into boards,
and that research took a long time. Very healthy report was given out and presentation was given at the
Academy Capstone presentations in Portland at our last summit. I was delightfully surprised to have our
General Manager/CEO there in support. I'm very grateful for her presence and all the help that she gave
me.
But I would be super remiss not to say thank you for helping with formatting PowerPoints and detail reading
of drafting and getting that work done, which also helped to get some other work done that will be
forthcoming to this board in terms of future policy for how we're going to bring on new directors. I would like
to report to all of you, to no surprise it should come, we are well-trained to do the function of directing in this
agency.
Being one of the last three agencies that have directors who are elected directly to their positions, this
agency serves us very well in that capacity. And while there's always room for improvement, and we have
made a policy, I hope going forward that will assist us in being both flexible and clear in what we do, we're
not out in the dark and we're not waiting a year or two to get trained and to get onboarded as servants of
the public and fiduciaries of the agency and governors, our Board of Directors.
And so, I think a lot of that is big round of applause and thank you to all of our staff who have helped us in
that process, who guide us, who we lean on because of their expertise and their knowledge. And so, to all
of you, thank you. When you have stepped up to teach us, it's really important. And when you have taught
us what has changed in practice and in transit, it's important.
I would really like to take the opportunity, if I may, just to really remind everybody, we have a unique
opportunity which is not offered to directors at many agencies, which is to attend some of these
conferences. APTA, [? Compto, ?] LIT, Latinos in Transit, and we have policies in place that allow us to do
that.
Reimbursements for the travel, the ability to have those conferences registered for us ahead of time, to
save money, to do it early, and to do it through the Board Office, to alleviate the stress of trying to find these
things and do it, and they are awesome opportunities to learn so much. For the public, that might sound
interesting, but it is an investment in knowledge and capacity building for your Directors who come here to
do the work that we do day in and day out.
It's not a vacation, I can tell you that very clearly. It is a lot of work to do these conferences and to participate
and to be ready to present on some of those issues. So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm super
glad that I had the opportunity to do that because I represented, I think, Denver well and RTD even better,
but I did not do it alone. I knew who I walked in with and it's all 3,000 of our employees that were behind
me in that presentation, and the help of about 12 other agencies nationally in cooperation with all of your
help. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary, and thank you for the work on that. We did have a chance at
Executive Committee to look at a new forthcoming policy here on our training and I very much appreciate
the work that you've brought to the Board here on that. Other directors? All right, seeing none, we'll go to
other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss? OK, seeing none.
Before I ask for the motion to enter executive session, I just would like to remind everybody that our next
board meeting will be Tuesday, October 22, and I look forward to seeing you all at that time. We're now
going to move to the executive session portion of the agenda. In a moment. The board will meet in executive

session to receive legal advice and discuss positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations
regarding a potential amendment to the GM/CEO employment agreement.
I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the board meeting will be
deemed adjourned after it adjourns into executive session. For public transparency, this means that once
the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following, executive session.
Pursuant to Section [? 24-64024b ?] CRS to receive legal advice and section [? 24-64024e ?] CRS for
determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations regarding a potential
Amendment to GM/CEO employment agreement.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Buzek is the movant and the second is Tisdale. Are there any opposed? Seeing none,
with 13 in favor, that will pass. For all those expected to attend, please make sure we will take a brief break
to get set up and transition over. Please be here at 9:05 PM and we will get started. For everybody else,
please vacate the room at this time, take your belongings with you, and we'll transition as quickly as
possible. Thank you.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Joe Meyer
RTD Board Office
9.24.2024 Board Meeting Public Comment
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 10:43:48 AM
Fw Sep24 service change concerns.htm
LRT_Cycles_Sep2024_Protected.xlsx
September 2024 Service Changes Comments_jm.pdf

Chair Davidson and the Board,
I would like to submit this e-mail and the attached documents as public comment regarding
the final September 2024 Service Changes for light rail. I do not expect this to be fully read
and digested prior to today's meeting, but I absolutely would like to engage in more detail on
this topic and I encourage any interested parties to reach out with questions, suggestions,
corrections, and any other followup.
I believe it is important to clarify that I am focusing on light rail schedules and service
frequency/quality because I see it as the most in-need-of-improvement from a scheduling and
service planning perspective, and I believe light rail and commuter rail are going to be the
most effective ways of meaningfully changing commute patterns and reducing traffic and
pollution on highways in the Denver metro area. I am not in any way advocating against
improving bus service as well, nor do I advocate for rail service because I think I am "better
than taking a bus" as is often the perception of suburban train commuters - I ride local buses,
but the buses I ride do not have the same endemic scheduling and service problems as many of
the light rail trains, so I do not comment on those bus routes. There is also no reasonably
available bus trip alternative for most of the trips that I make on the SE corridor light rail, and
based on the ridership numbers I have seen for the E line that is likely true for at least half of
the other E-line riders.
I am also not asking RTD to ignore or downplay safety concerns. I recognize that the current
speed restrictions are in place for good reason, and I appreciate the effort of the teams tasked
with inspecting and repairing the rail infrastructure, and the operators who have to deal with
the speed restrictions, inaccurate schedules, shortened breaks, and angry customers. However,
I believe it can be shown that improved service is possible without compromising safety - and
potentially improving operator working conditions - with more accurate, more resilient
scheduling practices. My vision for improvement focuses squarely on the Service
Planning/Development (and Public Relations) efforts.
I acknowledge that it is too late to change the published September 2024 schedule, but that
does not mean that an intermediate schedule change is impossible (before January, maybe
even multiple times, to adjust to changing Speed Restriction conditions). At minimum, I ask
the Board to re-consider the level of detail and explanation expected from RTD staff when
evaluating future service changes.
Let's make this system work efficiently, effectively, and with the highest quality service
possible. We are not there yet, but I trust you all to not back down from pushing for the best
possible outcomes, and holding the rest of the organization to the same standard. I offer as
much time as I can to assist in any way practical.
Thank you,
Joe Meyer

thejoemeyer@gmail.com
978-846-2631

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Joe Meyer
RTD Board Office
9.24.2024 Board Meeting Public Comment
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 10:43:48 AM
Fw Sep24 service change concerns.htm
LRT_Cycles_Sep2024_Protected.xlsx
September 2024 Service Changes Comments_jm.pdf

Chair Davidson and the Board,
I would like to submit this e-mail and the attached documents as public comment regarding
the final September 2024 Service Changes for light rail. I do not expect this to be fully read
and digested prior to today's meeting, but I absolutely would like to engage in more detail on
this topic and I encourage any interested parties to reach out with questions, suggestions,
corrections, and any other followup.
I believe it is important to clarify that I am focusing on light rail schedules and service
frequency/quality because I see it as the most in-need-of-improvement from a scheduling and
service planning perspective, and I believe light rail and commuter rail are going to be the
most effective ways of meaningfully changing commute patterns and reducing traffic and
pollution on highways in the Denver metro area. I am not in any way advocating against
improving bus service as well, nor do I advocate for rail service because I think I am "better
than taking a bus" as is often the perception of suburban train commuters - I ride local buses,
but the buses I ride do not have the same endemic scheduling and service problems as many of
the light rail trains, so I do not comment on those bus routes. There is also no reasonably
available bus trip alternative for most of the trips that I make on the SE corridor light rail, and
based on the ridership numbers I have seen for the E line that is likely true for at least half of
the other E-line riders.
I am also not asking RTD to ignore or downplay safety concerns. I recognize that the current
speed restrictions are in place for good reason, and I appreciate the effort of the teams tasked
with inspecting and repairing the rail infrastructure, and the operators who have to deal with
the speed restrictions, inaccurate schedules, shortened breaks, and angry customers. However,
I believe it can be shown that improved service is possible without compromising safety - and
potentially improving operator working conditions - with more accurate, more resilient
scheduling practices. My vision for improvement focuses squarely on the Service
Planning/Development (and Public Relations) efforts.
I acknowledge that it is too late to change the published September 2024 schedule, but that
does not mean that an intermediate schedule change is impossible (before January, maybe
even multiple times, to adjust to changing Speed Restriction conditions). At minimum, I ask
the Board to re-consider the level of detail and explanation expected from RTD staff when
evaluating future service changes.
Let's make this system work efficiently, effectively, and with the highest quality service
possible. We are not there yet, but I trust you all to not back down from pushing for the best
possible outcomes, and holding the rest of the organization to the same standard. I offer as
much time as I can to assist in any way practical.
Thank you,
Joe Meyer

thejoemeyer@gmail.com
978-846-2631

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, September 24th, 2024.
September 24th, 2024
Erik Davidson, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Davidson,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topics:
Light Rail Speed Restrictions (Slow Zones) and September 2024 Schedule
GDT would first like to congratulate the project teams for the downtown light rail loop and coping panels
projects for timely completion. In addition we recognise the efforts of the maintenance-of-way department in
replacing rail to tackle the light rail speed restrictions.
That said, GDT notes that the September 2024 light rail schedules feature the same end to end runtimes as
the January ones did, indicating that the network will be fully returned to normal. However we know that this is
not the case given the slow zones still present, along with the E Line having 30 minute frequencies . As of the
latest update on the RTD website, there is still a significant mileage of speed restricted track to remedy
indicating that the slow zones will be around well into the fall.
Because of this, GDT is still extremely curious as to why the agencys management is approving the
publication of schedules for D, E, H and R lines that are simply not achievable. This means the riders will
continue to be misled on what time they will arrive at their destinations or transfer points and confidence in
RTDs ability to operate the light rail system will continue to be eroded.
GDT suggests that RTD publishes temporary schedules, updated as and when significant amounts of slow
zones are lifted, throughout the fall period that accurately reflect the times the trains will arrive at stations.
We encourage RTD management to hold discussions with the Union to make this a reality. We also
repeat our call to the the RTD Board to pass appropriate policy to instigate a top-to-bottom review of
the service planning and scheduling process with the aim to both (a) enable the flexibility needed to
publish temporary schedules and (b) modernize the route bidding process for RTD to improve the of
work-life balance for operators.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Approval of Budget Transfer for Wheel Truing Machine Replacement
GDT understands the necessity of the proposed budget transfer for a wheel truing machine of which estimated
costs have risen from $1,875,000 to $3,553,500. That said, the proposed contract is now well over the GM &
CEOs $2M delegated authority and we strongly encourage Directors to approve the budget transfer but
make an amendment to the motion to remove the language giving the GM & CEO authority to enter into
a contract. GDT believes that Directors should have the authority to review the final proposed contract at a
later date, once a proposed vendor and price are in place.
Support of Ballot Measure 6A and Delegation of Director Tisdale to Vote on 6A on RTDs Behalf
GDT is in full support of ballot measure 6A and encourages Directors to vote Yes on delegating Director
Tisdale to vote Yes on RTDs behalf.
Northwest Rail Peak Service Completion
GDT is pleased to see the final report be published for this long awaited study. While it is clear that the exact
rail operations concept studied is unlikely to provide value for money for the taxpayer, we are in agreement
with RTD management that a common set of facts was required and we are happy that there is now a
somewhat workable plan on the table. GDT encourages Directors to continue to support work on the
Northwest Rail Line, including studying solutions that provide all-day service and how best to
collaborate with the Front Range Passenger Rail District.

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum
CC:

Richard Bamber

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

