Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
11, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

January 11, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 11 at 6:50 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Director’s Cohen, Daly, Hoy, McMullen (via
phone), O’Boyle, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp and Director Riley; Directors Anderson, Brohl, Deadwyler,
James and Malpiede left early.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Lee Cryer, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Jane
Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony
Menendez, Karen Morales, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Joshua Jackson Robinson-RTD Intern, Jannette Scarpino,
Daria Serna, Danielle Smith, MaryAnn Strombitski, Bill Sirois, Jim
Starling, Greg Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Kenneth Burns - CAC, Mac Callison – Aurora, Steve Cook – DRCOG,
Audrey Debarros – 36 Commuter Solutions, Laura Masias – Southeast
Business Partnership, Jim Paulmeno – CDOT, Roger Sherman, Mike
Schrodis, Debra Wilcox-CAC
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:50 p.m.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
11, 2011
Page 2 of 4

I.

Recommended Action
RTD-DRCOG Land Use Model Intergovernmental Agreement
Bill Van Meter introduced this item. This action is to allow RTD to work with DRCOG to
develop new land use model for the region. DRCOG would take the lead on this and
there is no financial obligation for RTD. We would provide resources from the planning
group who would participate with this effort.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
complete a contract between RTD and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) for the completion of the new socioeconomic modeling system of the
Integrated Regional Model (IRM) project in 2011-2013. Funding for this project is
included in the 2011 Adopted Budget through an $800,000 grant from the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA), with $167,000 local match provided by DRCOG. There
would be no net cost to RTD.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January
18, 2011 Board meeting

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION: Director Hoy inquired how much staff time
would be required.
Bill Van Meter
responded approximately 20 hours per
month with time split between Bill Sirois
TOD and Lee Cryer Travel Model Groups.
Director Tayer applauded the team and
DRCOG for this effort.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with seven in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, O’Boyle, Tayer,
and Tobiassen,) and 0 against (Chair Kemp
and Director Riley were absent and
Directors Anderson, Brohl, Deadwyler,
James and Malpiede had left for the
Inaugural events). Director McMullen was
via phone.

Approval of Contract for CAD/AVL System
Bruce Abel, Trent Ratcliff and Eric Farrington introduced this item.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for the replacement of RTD’s Computer Aided Dispatch

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
11, 2011
Page 3 of 4

and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) System, Data Radio Replacement System
and Voice Radio Integration (Request For Proposal (RFP) No. 19FH018) to INIT
Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) of Chesapeake, VA in an amount not-toexceed $47,520,000. This price includes all of the elements of a 3-year deployment
followed by a 6-year warranty period.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January 18
full Board meeting.

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION: Director Tayer thanked staff for calling out
the real-time passenger information. He
requested the team to continue to track the
work progress of what is in queue as it
relates to this item.
Director Bagley stated his appreciation as
well. He stated that the Colorado School
of the Blind is in his District and was
anticipating the automated stop
announcements. He indicated this would
be beneficial also for riders who were
unfamiliar with the streets and needed
this information. Trent Ratcliff stated
there will be oral and visual signals.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed six in favor
(Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Tayer, and Tobiassen,)
and 0 against. (Chair Kemp and Director
Riley were absent and Directors Anderson,
Brohl, Deadwyler, James and Malpiede had
left for the Inaugural events). Director
O’Boyle left sick and Director McMullen
was via phone.

II. Updates
Bill Sirois provided an update of the DUS Historic Building Re-Use. He indicated they
have been meeting with stakeholders and expert panelists and have refined some of the
criteria and how it can be applied. They are considering more universal options for the
building:
 Destination retail (i.e. some unique aspect). This assumes Amtrak is in this
space.
 Hotel

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
11, 2011
Page 4 of 4

 Civic or cultural option
Director Bagley stated he was excited about the number of entities engaged in this
planning effort with so many options. DUS will be the showplace of the whole
FasTracks project when all the development, etc is in place. This will be a preeminent
part of RTD history.
III. Other Matters
The General Manager stated that the APTA calendar is out. RTD is represented as
December in this calendar.
Director Bagley announced the enhanced cooperation between the FasTracks
Committee and the Planning and Development Committee. The plans are to work more
closely together in the coordination of agendas, etc. Director Bagley also stated that
for the P&D committee, he and Director Hoy would like the agenda to include items
that the Directors may feel important to discuss so they will be bringing some of these
items forward.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
February 8, 2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m.

