April 9, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, I am calling to order the committee here that I can't
speak to because I'm signed out and signed back in yet. So you get another minute, or two or
three. Hello.
Directors, you have to sign out and sign back in before you can attend the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting. We'll take a minute for technological difficulties. Please
note that while we are all fumbling and bumbling that this meeting will be digitally recorded and
captioned, and made available to the public. Safety is still our core value, but I'm not going to tell
you anymore about it.
And the first thing we need is a slight change to the agenda in order to keep you attentive and
interested. So I'd like to ask Mr. Bruce Abel if he's willing to speak to us about what's going on
in the world of autonomous vehicles. Mr. Ford, you OK with that?
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: Hello and thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks for the chance to come back
and visit with you all this evening. As Chair mentioned, I would like to provide an update on the
61AV project demonstration, or pilot project, as well as talk a little bit about possible future steps
with autonomous vehicles.
First of all, I do want to apologize, as I do have a very brief PowerPoint that is background and
context for this update. To the extent that a semi-retired person can be on vacation, I've been out
of town for the last couple of weeks. So I didn't get this in time for the Board packet. But this is
identical to the update that was provided at the November operations and committee meeting.
But it dawned on me that there were perhaps some individuals tonight who were not at the
November meeting, because we have had a change in Board membership. So it's a whopping, I
think, four slides, but it is identical. And so I appreciate the Board working with me on this. But
again, my apologies.
So as the Board knows, on January 29th, we did kick off the 61AV autonomous vehicle project.
It was a pilot to test autonomous vehicles in a transit application. And that's the jargon term we'll
talk a little bit more about in just a moment.
The project partners included RTD, EasyMile, the AV vehicle provider, Panasonic, Pena Station
Next, LC Fulenwider, the developers who are working with Panasonic to develop Pena Station
Next, the city and county of Denver, both Denver International Airport and Denver Public
Works, as well as Transdev, a service supplier. And we all worked together within the regulatory

framework that was developed by the Colorado Autonomous Vehicle Task Force, which was
members of CDOT, the Department of Revenue Division of Motor Vehicles, as well as the State
Patrol.
Flip forward two, if you will. Next one. OK. So phase one is approximately a one-mile loop that
connects the 61st and Pena Rail Station to the nearby Panasonic offices, as well as some
apartments that are under construction and anticipate beginning to lease next month. It operates
Monday through Friday, 15 minute frequencies from the rail station. It operates from 10:00 AM
to 6:00 PM Monday through Friday. The AV runs on roadway in mixed traffic. And this is the
first AV demonstration in the state of Colorado where a vehicle operates in mixed traffic on a
public right of way.
We've been tracking performance since early February, and that's really what I'd like to share
with you this evening. So first, I'd like to answer the question that everybody asks-- even though
it's not really relevant to our project goals-- but everyone wants to know how many passengers
have we carried. So since we began that gathering stats on February 11th, we have carried 208
passengers. But as I said, that's not really what our project objective is here, because the project
goals here are really focused on assessing AV technology in a transit application.
And so towards that end, I can tell you that since we began monitoring Feb 11th, we have
provided approximately 69% of our scheduled hours of AV service with the AV vehicle. There
are a number of reasons why we have provided 69% of our service. And this is really why we do
demonstrations. Most of our inabilities to provide service doing the remaining 31% of the time
are really results related to our environmental and climactic conditions that we operate under
here in Denver.
[INAUDIBLE]
BRUCE ABEL: Pardon?
[INAUDIBLE]
BRUCE ABEL: Blizzards. In my jargon. But in the recent weeks-- really, in the last three weeks- we have been able to provide approximately 96% to 98% of our scheduled AV service using
the autonomous vehicle. So we have ranged from a low-- we provide weekly reports as well as
consolidated reports. Our lowest week was the week of the blizzard, where we were able to
provide only 36% of our hours. And the highest was this most recent week, last week, when we
were able to deliver 98% of our hours.
The reasons: number one, a heater. The first generation of autonomous vehicle did not include a
heater in the interior of the vehicle. So on very cold days, the drivers would act to do one of two
things-- either bring the service into the garage for a few minutes, so they, as the customer
service ambassadors, could warm up, or they would swap the vehicle, the autonomous vehicle,
out, and actually use the backup vehicle to maintain service to our customers. But these are the
kinds of things that we're monitoring and measuring.

Snow. Autonomous vehicles, as we've discussed-- there are a number of technologies that are
used for the safety perspective of the autonomous vehicle. We have sensors, LIDAR, which I
like to refer to as sonar, where it sends out signals and bounces back GPS so it knows where it is,
camera so it knows where it is. But these sensors read falling snow as obstacles when it falls
heavily enough.
Heavy winds. The sensors read debris being blown across the street under heavy winds as an
obstacle. So again, it caused the vehicle to stop. We measure these stoppages, and when these
stoppages get heavy enough, we revert to the backup vehicle.
Heavy rain. The sensors read heavy rain as an obstacle. Current guidelines are that five
millimeters, which is about 2/10ths of an inch per hour, will be read as inability to operate.
Steam. The first ones we sort of all anticipated. This last one, we never did. Steam. When we
have snow in Colorado, it falls on the ground. As it melts, it emits steam coming up from the
roadway. The sensors read this steam as obstacles, and again, cause the vehicles to stop.
In addition, we have obstacles such as construction vehicles that come and park themselves in
the roadway. And it requires manual intervention on the part of the customer service ambassador
to manually intervene, take the vehicle out of autonomous mode, put it into manual mode, to
circumvent the obstacle and then return to autonomous mode.
So as I mentioned, we've had a low of 36% in any given week of provision of service in
autonomous mode, up to a 96% to 98% provision in the last couple of weeks. But the good thing
is-- and this is why we do demos-- we're already working with the AV manufacturers on
addressing the issues that we identified. For example, the steam issue. They are already in the
process of developing new software and technology to address the steam issue, because this was
a new one even to them.
The Gen 2 vehicle. We have a Generation 1-- Gen 1. Gen 2 vehicles include a heater. These
vehicles were not available to us when we started the project, but Gen 2 vehicles now have a
heater, so that customer service ambassadors and passengers have heat on the inside of the
vehicles, as opposed to parkas being given to everyone who boards.
So our experience is actually going to help us advance the technology to where it becomes more
useful in a transit application. But what do I mean about a transit application? Most of the
demonstrations that have taken place across the country are really parking lot shuttles, they're
business park connectors-- all environments where time isn't really an issue. If you're in the
parking lot at the baseball stadium, you're going to catch an autonomous vehicle from your car to
the actual park, well, you're not running according to a schedule. Similarly, in a business park, if
you're going from my office down the street, you're not looking to operate according to a
schedule.
In transit, most market research will tell you that our customers' number one priority is
reliability, and reliability being defined as on-time performance and the ability of the vehicle to
complete the trip without unanticipated interruptions. And as well, transit requires timed

transfers, especially in the case of a first and last mile solution, such as what we're testing, which
is there is a rail service that comes by a station every 15 minutes in each direction, and so we
have developed an actual schedule that would integrate with the AV, integrate with the rail
service.
So up at this point in time, while on-time performance has been one of the metrics that we want
to measure, we have not been measuring it. We are not reporting it because of the variety of
challenges that we've encountered in the last several months. But we do have the technological
work in place, and our goal is to begin measuring on-time performance effective May 1, which is
the last, really, transit application type of metric that other AV demos are not looking at today.
So we anticipate that the next report back to the Board, we will also be able to provide on-time
performance metrics. This demonstration project is anticipated to run through the end of July.
We wanted to make sure that we could start in January, so that we had operations in all seasons-January, winter through July, summer.
So what would the conclusions that this person would share with you at this point in time would
be? Well, one, as an organization, we always need to be willing and open to exploring new ideas
and new technologies. We also need to be willing to objectively assess what the technology can
do and what the technology can't do. All of us as human beings love to chase the next new bright
shiny toy, but we need to be objective in assessing of what it can do for us, and what it can't do
for us. We need to continue to work with technological services to address the shortcomings that
we can identify so that we can overcome them and make them useful to us in a transit
application.
And that's really what we're doing right now as part of our demonstration. We're working with
EasyMile and their software programs to change programs to address the steam issue. They have
already addressed the heater issue. We need to continue to work on sensors so that they can be
able to differentiate between snow and real obstacles, to be able to demonstrate to distinguish
between rain and real obstacles, debris being blown across the road and real obstacles. But again,
this is why we do a demonstration.
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards has-- these vehicles are not FMVSS compliant, so we
have to get federal waivers, as part of our preplanning in this project. And they have identified a
number of constraints in Av testing that each of the demos helped advance. For example, they
initially said AVs can only operate 35 degrees to 95 degrees. As a result of prior demonstrations
and ours, FMVSS has now said it's 0 to 95.
Initial temperature-- let's see. Wind speeds. We can operate up to 31 miles sustained, but not
above, and up to 40 miles peak and not above. So we continue to address, with our technology
providers, how can we advance the state of technology so that we can provide a reliable service,
and to assess how can AVs really play a role in a transit setting so that we and our customers
might take advantage of it?
As I mentioned, towards that end, we are anticipating this demonstration ending at the end of
July. We have submitted a grant application to the Fed for funding for another demo. And that

demo that we have submitted the grant application for is to operate a first and last mile two-year
demonstration connecting the University of Denver and the DU Light Rail Station .
As many of you may know, or some of you may know, DU previously had engaged a shuttle
operator-- Chariot-- to provide first and last mile circulation from the DU campus to the light rail
station. Chariot withdrew from the transit shuttle space at the end of January. So either the
beginning or end of February. I forget if it was Jan 31st or end of February. OK.
And so we submitted the grant application in conjunction with DU, the city and county of
Denver, Transportation Solutions, EasyMile Vehicle Manufacturer, ourselves, and I'm sure I'm
leaving somebody out. But it was a very collaborative effort in developing this grant application
that's been submitted to the Feds for a couple million dollars to run a two-year demonstration as
to how we can replace what was previously the Chariot first and last mile link with potential AV
first and last mile link between the DU campus and the station.
So that is my update. And I'll be glad to answer whatever questions there might be.
KATE WILLIAMS: Excuse me, John. Can we have the pretty picture of the AV with the sunset
in the background that we can see before we go? There you go. Just in case anybody wants to see
it.
BRUCE ABEL: This is the one thing that does differ from the November presentation. In
November, we had the generic AV vehicle. This is actually our vehicle, as many of you have
seen operating out at 61st and Pena.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Mr. Abel. We can go back now to seeing our pretty pictures
instead. And I see Director Lubow has questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. Thank you for that presentation. It's very
interesting and exciting. Can you check off on the box I am not a robot anymore? Or do you-[LAUGHTER]
BRUCE ABEL: I can do that with limited ability, because oftentimes, it says what letters and
numbers are these, and until I get new glasses, I usually get it about 50% of the time.
JUDY LUBOW: I had a couple of questions, though. The ride that's now being worked-- is that
on a public road with regular traffic?
BRUCE ABEL: It's on a public road in mixed traffic. 60th and 61st, Salida and Panasonic Way.
And those are all public roadways maintained by the city and county of Denver.
JUDY LUBOW: So there are ordinary cars with regular drivers. Do they know they're dealing
with autonomous vehicle in their midst?

BRUCE ABEL: They do not realize that they are dealing with an autonomous vehicle in their
midst. One of the things that we did work with both the State AV Task Force as well as the city
and county of Denver Public Works is in doing a traffic analysis on the potential impact, we did
post caution slow moving vehicle signs in the area, so that drivers on the public roadways are
made aware of the fact that there could be slower moving vehicles. But the state does not wish to
draw attention to an AV from any other vehicle. And so that is the signage that we resolved.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. What is the speed limit that's being driven by this vehicle?
BRUCE ABEL: The speed limit on the public streets is 25. This vehicle operates at
approximately 11 to 12 miles per hour.
JUDY LUBOW: So, I mean, is that considered a hazard with the other cars? I'm just wondering
if this is-BRUCE ABEL: That again is one of the things that we're seeking to determine through the test,
is to see whether operating in mixed traffic-- and again, we're the first ones in the state doing
this-- whether operating in mixed traffic is posing any challenge for drivers out in the arena, any
challenge for the AV vehicle. But we have had a relatively small number of what I would call
disengagements for emergency reasons.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BRUCE ABEL: Really, our disengagements has come as a result of construction vehicles
parking in the path, and the operator having to go around it.
JUDY LUBOW: And that's the next question that I had. I could see working out technological
bugs about steam and about rain, that theoretically you could figure it out, how to distinguish
between that and real problems. But when there are real problems, what is done? Like, for
instance, if a car is stopped in front of you, or a driver is driving erratically and going over the
line in front of this autonomous vehicle. How is that handled?
BRUCE ABEL: Well, the way in which it's handled is the operator-- the vehicle will stop itself.
And the vehicle stops itself far more quickly than a human operator can react. At which point,
when the vehicle stops itself, the customer service ambassador takes over manual control of the
vehicle in order to maneuver around whatever the obstacle is.
And so what I can tell you is, since February 11, we have had 99 situations where the vehicle has
come to a stop, what they call an E-stop. I can tell you that 251 occurrences, we have had
situations where the customer service ambassador has had to assume manual control in order to
circumvent, especially with construction out there for the new apartments. A vehicle pulls in
with a load of roof trusses. If it stays there for a while, the customer service ambassador
maneuvers around it. If a vehicle gets in the way and then moves, the autonomous vehicle will
then resume without customer service ambassador intervention.

So the nature of the obstruction determines what happens. If somebody runs through a stop sign,
the vehicle will stop. The offender will clear. The AV will resume on its own. If it gets to a point
where a construction vehicle has parked in its path, the customer service ambassador will
maneuver around it and resume the route.
JUDY LUBOW: So it is always assuming, at this point in the technology, that there is a driver, a
co-pilot, just waiting?
BRUCE ABEL: We are testing what's called Level 4 autonomy. Level 5 is also referred to as
No-op. Actually, I spent a good portion of yesterday with EasyMile and Transdev people, and we
were talking about, can we identify opportunities for no-op. But right now I think it's in our
collective best interest to make sure that we know what it can do, make sure that we know what
it can't do, and what role might it play.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm concerned about it going back and forth between DU and a regular stop
without somebody being there.
BRUCE ABEL: There will, the DU, we will, again, the grant applications for Level 4 with a
customer service ambassador.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. I'm going to find out real quick before we go
on, Director Menten, if there is anybody on the phone. And if so, do they have a question?
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Hi, this is Jeff.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Go ahead.
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Hi. Thank you. Bruce, I'm wondering where the vehicle will be
housed in the evening, or when it's not in service.
BRUCE ABEL: Well, currently, with the 61AV, the autonomous vehicle is housed out at the
Panasonic facility, which is also the EasyMile facility. Transdev is the service provider. They
report out at the EasyMile slash Panasonic office to start and end the day. In the DU grant
application, we have had conversations with DU, and that we have in the grant application put a
budgetary placeholder for the construction of what I'll call a butler building, either on the DU
campus or on our property at the DU light rail station, TBD if we get the grant.
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Thank you. And one other question, then I'll go silent. I'm
wondering if, and you might have said this, but I've been driving. So there's some things I
missed. But I'm wondering if you will be offering or we will be offering a schedule for the
service at DU, or an approximate schedule.
BRUCE ABEL: We would anticipate doing that as part of the 61AV project. We do have a
published schedule. It is on our website. It is on our real-time monitoring system. The only thing

that we're not doing at this point in time, for example, you know that we report to you on time
performance for bus and rail service. Right now we're not performing not reporting on time
performance for AV, but we will start doing that May 1. Because we do have a public schedule,
and we do anticipate doing that as the DU project, as well. Because again, if it's going to be in
transit, it's going to run according to a schedule, and integrate with the overall network.
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): And I'm sorry, one other question. How long is the loop at DU?
BRUCE ABEL: DU is approximately 2.2 miles.
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): OK. All right. Thank you very much. That's it for me.
BRUCE ABEL: Down High Street, down Iliff, onto the campus, turn around on campus, wash,
rinse, repeat.
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): It'll be interesting. I'm going to be out there the first day it
operates. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. How much have we spent so far on this project out of RTD
funding?
BRUCE ABEL: The RTD budget for this process is $15,000 out of roughly a $250,000 project.
At this point in time we have spent approximately $6,000 to $7,000.
NATALIE MENTEN: Does that include your contract, your services?
BRUCE ABEL: It does not include my time. No.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so that would be on top.
BRUCE ABEL: Oh, in that case, it's approximately a half a million.
[LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL FORD: I'm in the wrong job.
NATALIE MENTEN: But you did retire. So-BRUCE ABEL: I did retire, and I'm working part time, and this is one of the projects that I'm
working on.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So you are working part-time employee, not a contractor.
BRUCE ABEL: Correct.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And is this the only project that you're working on?
BRUCE ABEL: This has been the majority of my time, but I'm also working on another
incredibly exciting project-- standard operating procedures.
NATALIE MENTEN: Next question then is, with the Chariot deal, I didn't dig into that. But my
understanding was that Ford decided the project was not of interest to them, and that is why it
shut down. Can you remind me of the specifics of what the failure was?
BRUCE ABEL: Well, I would say that Chariot was a freestanding microtransit provider. A
couple of years ago, Ford bought Chariot. And this past winter, Ford made the decision that, in
terms of their corporate strategy, they no longer wanted to be in the Chariot microtransit space.
And so as a result, ours was not the only project that-- I mean, the DU project was not the only
one. Ford just shut down the entire Chariot division and all the projects that they were operating.
It was just a corporate business decision.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have two questions. I think I have two questions. The
first question is around the on-time performance. I want to hope that I understand. We're not
collecting the on-time performance data because there was not a published schedule and because
it was not identified in the goal. Is that correct?
BRUCE ABEL: No. It was identified in the goal, and there is a published schedule, which is on
our website and on our trip planner. But due to the challenges that we've had because of our
climactic conditions, when we say that we were only able to provide 40% on the low end of our
planned service, the on-time performance was somewhat irrelevant. So now that we are up to a
spot that we're able to provide 98% of our service, now we're going to begin measuring the ontime performance. Because on-time performance, when you're not even providing half your
service, is somewhat irrelevant.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And the second is a request. You gave us a lot more detail in this
presentation verbally, and I was wondering if you can give us more of that written down.
BRUCE ABEL: I can do that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For us folks who need to read things to understand.
BRUCE ABEL: I have a handy dandy little spreadsheet that I read from, so-SHONTEL LEWIS: Perfect.
BRUCE ABEL: --I'd be glad to.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I hope you enjoyed your vacation.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, I did.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Good.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, I was wondering, Chariot ran long enough that we learned
anything from it, and what we [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. What lessons we may have learned from Chariot, and how long it
ran, and are there other places that are running an actual first and last mile project like the
Chariot proposal.
BRUCE ABEL: If I recall, Chariot was loading what-- 27 passengers a day? 0.6? I think it's in
Jeff's presentation. And so yes, we have data from DU on the Chariot ridership. And so that will
be used to help us plan the details.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And are there are other places that are running that kind of-- you're
going to talk about that? Great.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. See nobody else. I have a couple quickies, and then we'll segue right
into innovative mobility, which is directly related to what you all are waiting for at the end of
this. The Chariot project was run only for DU students. You had to have a DU student ID in
order to ride that service. Are we going to follow that same model, or are we going to be open to
the public?
BRUCE ABEL: We are going to be open to the public, and the route is designed in such a way
as to serve not only campus students, but the adjacent-- or the preliminary design, which will be
finalized based on traffic analyses, but is designed to serve both the campus and the adjacent
neighborhood.
KATE WILLIAMS: Which was something that was mostly wanted in the Chariot project,
something that was talked about a lot. And are you going to be able to use a transfer to get off the
train and get on to the whatever it's going to be called?
BRUCE ABEL: Well, at this point in time, the 61AV as a demonstration project does not have a
fare. At this point in time, in terms of our grant applications to the feds, we do not anticipate
charging a fare. Because again, this is a two-year demonstration. Well, potentially three years-one year preplanning, two years operation. If we don't get the full grant, we'll do one year
preplanning and one year operation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. And I have one more question. Are we going to-- are we going
to make a presentation at APTA about our transit-oriented autonomous vehicle pilots?

BRUCE ABEL: Not that this person is involved with. I have no idea if anyone else is.
[INAUDIBLE]
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, we're engaged in a variety of different-- and this one is escaping me,
about whether we're doing a presentation on this or not. But I know we're doing an Innovation of
the Month webinar with APTA, but that's on our Uber collaboration. But yeah, they're well
aware of the things we're doing, and picking those things up. So we'll look for those
opportunities.
BRUCE ABEL: What I am aware of is next Friday the 19th, we will be presenting at the local
transportation symposium. And we will-- on our AV-- and we will also be presenting at the
CASTA a conference on our AV.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd just like us to see that not only are we trendsetters with our train
services, but we are trendsetters in a number of other ways, too. So thank you very much for that
presentation. If there are no more questions or comments-- anybody else on the phone? Crickets.
Hearing nobody, we'll move on to the next update, which I believe is innovative mobility from
Mr. Becker. Is that-- gentleman, am I correct?
JEFF BECKER: Yes, thank you. Good evening. Jeff Becker, Senior Manager for Service
Development. And I'm going to present on an overview of innovative, on-demand, and
microtransit for RTD, and also the metro area and a little bit across the US next. In the year
2000, RTD was operating a little circulator van route in the city of Brighton, and it was carrying
about 15 boardings per day.
This was obviously unsustainable, so we went up to the city and said, well, we have another idea.
It's a new idea. At the time, that was Call-n-Ride. And so after some convincing, we
implemented Call-n-Ride in place of that bus circulator. And after about a year, it was carrying
60 people per day. Still not a lot of people. But what it did cement is that, one of the basic
principles, rationale, for having our FlexRide microtransit service, is that if you're going to
provide service in a low-density suburban area with dispersed travel patterns, you're better off
doing it with something like microtransit, not a comparable bus service.
And so now we have FlexRide. And basically, we provide service in defined community areas.
We charge regular local bus fare. People can book by calling. They can go online or onto their
mobile. Or they can just show up at a station where we have the vehicle already scheduled to
meet, because they know the schedule. So we have now 21 FlexRide service areas. Six of them
are the community base type, like in Brighton. And they're in blue on this map, outlined in blue.
And then we have 15 that are first/last mile, which we hear most about. And those are outlined in
red on this map. And just to give you, how did they do? The first/last mile ones carried about 95
passengers on average in each one, about 3.8 per vehicle hour. And the community base perform
not quite as well as that. Next.

And just to cement the first/last mile, here is the southeast quarter. I think we're familiar with
that, throughout the Denver Tech Center. It has six stations in it. And we have eight FlexRide
service areas serving those six stations, carrying around 650 people per day, about 4.5 per hour.
This is a better performing area in our district. Next.
So I have about 10 pages of notes where I've been trying to keep track of all these pilots that
sometimes you hear about, read about, around the US over the last several years. It's hard to keep
track of them, because they come and go, and you can't get much information about them. And
I'm not going to go over these. But here is just a half a dozen that's kind of representative.
Some of them operate similar to our FlexRide. Sometimes what you hear most about, where the
agency subsidizes customers on to use a taxi or Uber or Lyft to go from within a zone to connect
to a bus stop. Or it might be overnight. The one in Boston is doing something very much like our
Access-a-Cab, only they're subsidizing at a much higher rate, really, the use of Uber and Lyft
and another one.
Let me just ask you to look at the last column, where I bolded the ridership, the results, which
you've asked about. It's from about 10 to 250 trips per day. That's not bus ridership, right? So no
matter where, that's kind of the range we're looking at. So let's go a little bit further. Next.
So we have had pilots in our very own metro area. And I think some of you heard about the
Centennial Lyft project several years ago, where they provided Lyft service for free in the same
service area as our Dry Creek FlexRide. It ended up with about 10 boardings per day. And the
FlexRide continued to have 53 per day, about 5 less than the year before. So it probably did have
some impact having Lyft in there.
But the big question is, well, why didn't everybody just take a free Lyft, right? I mean, that
would be the thing. And I really can't answer definitively why. But I did go out and talk to the
passengers. And they'd all heard about Lyft. I said, well, why didn't you use Lyft? Well, some of
them didn't have a great experience with Uber and Lyft. Some of them like the driver. They like
the FlexRide service. They like the camaraderie of their other passengers, and other things like
that. Next.
Another two-part pilot project, really, was in Lone Tree. That yellow route represents a shuttle
bus service, frequent shuttle bus service, from the Lincoln Station down to the major employers
covering a lot of employees. And it was free, a frequent service. It carried about 320 people per
day, about 6.2 per vehicle hour as we look at productivity.
FlexRide, the year before was carrying 68, and went down to 40. So it definitely cut into the
FlexRide market, I would say. Then, about a year and a half ago, they started up with one of the
vehicles that wasn't really being productive on the shuttle. They took that and made that into an
on-demand service using Uber, the Uber app. They gave that to the driver, and then customers
could use it as they would otherwise.
So after a while they got, with one vehicle, 45 trips per day, about 3.8 per vehicle hour. And they
added a second vehicle and got 73 per day, 3.4 per hour. And that's about what they're doing

now. FlexRide dropped a little bit again. But I'm not sure you can see this, but it's really
interesting to note. Those green lines represent the origin-destination trips for one day on
FlexRide.
And you can see how just about all of them are going to the station. The green lines are the Lone
Tree Lyft on demand. They're mostly going from-- you know along Park Meadows Drive where
they have a lot of those mid-rise apartment buildings, it's fairly dense along there? They're going
from there to shopping, King Soopers, recreation centers. So is it competitive, or is it
complementary? These are things that we should really be working out. Next.
This is the one that Bruce mentioned. This is the University of Denver Chariot shuttle. It's
basically fixed-route, fixed-schedule. It got about 88 boardings per day, about 3.7 per vehicle
hour. Chariot went out of business. Chariot has an application where you can use it to make
reservations. So they simply replaced it with a local contractor, no app, just a regular shuttle.
And the last I heard they're getting about the same ridership. Next.
Another one is the Denver City Shuttle. And that was basically the route you see in stops and
fixed-schedule, frequent service between the Civic Center downtown and Cherry Creek shopping
center. It only went for about three or four months, and it only operated during the weekends. It
carried about-- it was operating three vehicles, though. It carried about 27 per day. That was 0.6
per hour. Chariot shut down at the end of January, and that service is no longer operating. Next.
So here's some things that are innovations that we're trying to do right now. One is, this first one
is, how can we use a mix of vehicles, our own FlexRide services, and vehicles that are already
out there like a taxi or a Lyft? And what we found is, we have, in some of our service areas,
during let's say the peak periods, we have to deny trips because we're at capacity. We have one
vehicle or two vehicles, and you can't carry everybody.
So what if we could send that trip to some, let's say a taxi that's already operating in the area?
And then some other ones, like our first/last mile, are heavily commuter-oriented. During the
middle of the day, for like four hours we hardly get anybody, four or five people perhaps. So
what if during that period of time, instead of operating our vehicle, spending 50 bucks an hour,
we just paid for a trip for those four or five people that needed trips.
Now, there's a lot to this. We've been meeting on this for a couple of years, really, internally
meeting ADA, drug testing, all these requirements. And we've also met with several Lyft and
taxi operators to see what interest there is in it. And I think we're now to the point where we're
putting this into procurement. We're going to put in an RFP and see what we can do. There's a lot
of technology also involved here. Next.
Another one which is really interesting is called intermodal trip planning. Right now we have
what's called an open trip planner that, if you put in, you want to make a trip from here to there,
it can do that as long as it's fixed route-- a bus or our rail service. It does not now recognize
FlexRide, because it doesn't have that level of technology.

But a few years ago, grants were put out, and the State of Vermont got one of the grants. And
their grant was to incorporate on-demand microtransit into the trip planning. And that took
creating a new data set spec that could describe the FlexRide-type service, and then change it to
the algorithms that actually create itineraries for you. They did that.
And I followed that very closely, and I asked our crack IT folks if they could grab that, because
it's open source. That's what we're using. And they took that. And when you see up here is a
screenshot where they took the Vermont version, put it into RTD, and we had already put
together our FlexRide data into this new data set.
And this is a trip from somewhere in Golden I just put in, to right here, where we're at right now.
And you'll see that it has that little red arc there. That is representative of, you can call and create
a trip. So there's more to it than that. And Vermont being basically rural, and ourself being very
urban, we now have in procurement to take what we have and make it more sophisticated. And
we're kind of excited about that. Next.
Another one is, this is really, so this is a trip exchange. This is related to human services
transportation. It could be for people with disabilities or elderly or young people going to various
programs. And it's been really longstanding that there's quite a few providers of this service.
There's nonprofits like Via and others. There's private providers. There's actually RTD providing
Access-a-Ride services.
And if you could coordinate these services-- if, say, one provider couldn't provide a particular
trip, they could put it into an exchange where another provider could take a look and say, well, I
can do that, and claim it and make the trip-- things would be more productive. And we tried that
in Longmont actually, almost on a manual basis between our FlexRide and Via Colorado's
service up there at Boulder. And we proved that it could be more productive. So now we have
this beta-tested data exchange hub, and now DRCOG is actually leading, in-progress now to put
this into production. Next.
And finally, our Access-a-Ride folks said, well, we have very expensive trips here, long trips.
What if we could take a Access-a-Ride trip and make a connection, let's say at a train station, and
then the person could then complete their trip to another train station? They tried that. It's
feasible, but not manually, which is what they had to do.
It's only feasible if we can do it with some automation, and it's going to be fairly tough. I mean,
part of it is not just the technology and how do you get our fixed-route services to integrate with
Access-a-Ride services, but just selecting trips and people that have the capability to make
transfers. So there's a lot of work. So that's a concept in development.
And so finally, just to summarize, I'd like to point out that, no matter what you've heard of all
these variety of services, we're looking at fairly modest ridership and productivity for services in
basically low-density areas. It doesn't really work too well in an urban area, because you've
already got a lot of service available there. And what we want to focus on is, do these services
meet our objectives, regulatory requirements, and just our regular process of going through and
developing services and confirming them? So thank you. I'll be glad to take some questions.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Becker. OK. I think we can have some discussion now.
Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. I was very excited to see the presentation materials
in the Board package, because I'm from an area that's like a boonie area. That's what I call it. We
have low density. And yet individually, our taxpayers pay as much as the people in the dense
areas who get a lot more service. And there really is an equity problem there that people in my
area let me know about. It's not fair. They're not happy with their service.
And looking at this, it makes me think, is there a way for staff to work with the directors who
have low-density areas to come up with, maybe in each director's district, one pilot project or
something that you could show to the people that we understand your equity concerns and are
trying to work with it? There's got to be something. In addition to getting our rail, which I talk
about all the time, this is the other equity problem that I really see. In the non-density areas,
people are. Angry because they feel they don't get much for their taxes. And this is a way to
address that.
So I was hoping that we could work together, but you could supply the expertise. Because it's
confusing actually.
JEFF BECKER: Yes. And I hope that from that map you could see that we actually do have 21
of these. They're all over the lower-density areas-- Boulder, Adams County, Douglas County. So
yes, and we're always looking to either add more or do whatever is appropriate.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm just wondering, though, because you have different ideas. It's not just
the Access-a-Ride or Call-n-Ride. You've got different first and last mile, and-JEFF BECKER: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: That maybe each director's district, or each low-density area, could be looked at
anew for, could one of these type of models possibly work in here? With the intent to really
systematically address this inequity, because it is an inequity. And I think it really needs to be
addressed so that people in this district from the low-density areas don't continue to feel like
they're being ripped off. Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: So if I could just-- Madam Chair, could I just respond to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DAVID GENOVA: And also working with the local communities is key. So an example is going
through the DRCOG TIP processes this year. Several TMAs actually brought to us ideas. And
one was a FlexRide application in a northern area that is not very dense, and it would be
Thornton, Adams County, and that area where there's some employers that operate on some
varied shifts. They're not regular shifts, so there's not really any transit options.

But they've applied for a TIP grant. And I think this particular one would be a very highly
interesting case study. Because it's one of those questions, it's the chicken or egg thing. Where
we're always being asked by stakeholders, well, if you just put service there, they'll be ridership.
And sometimes we say, well, there's just no ridership in that area. We can't justify service.
So I'm excited about the potential of this one application if it gets approved through the DRCOG
process, because it will be a great case study about putting FlexRide in that situation, and then
see if it is embraced. And you know, if it is, great. We'll continue. But if not, it will provide
information that way, too. But either way it's going to be a great case study for us.
JUDY LUBOW: And I think that is a wonderful idea, and I'm wondering if we could do it a little
more.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, that's not the only one. That's just one example. So we're supporting a
number of these in the TIP process this year.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And I'm just wondering if we could even up it a little more than that in the
sense of saying, well, because it's not enough. Saying, OK, let's look at the areas where people
squawk that they're not getting service, and see which of these models might work. And talk to
the jurisdictions about, are they interested in moving forward with a TIP request next year or
something?
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah. One of the keys is the amount of funding that the jurisdictions and
private sector can bring along with ours. So like anything, it's something we'd have to work
through our budget process. But we are supporting a number of those applications this year in the
TIP process.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I will keep harping on it then. You know me. All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Very quick question-- if you look at
page 2 of your packet, it's page 11 of the Board packet. But page 2 of the presentation, you have
the indication relative to the first/last mile Call-n-Ride areas and the Community Circulator Calln-Ride areas. Access-a-Ride is not depicted on this map. Am I correct in understanding that
Access-a-Ride does not have service area constraints, or does it?
JEFF BECKER: Yes, it's restricted to being around within 3/4 of a mile of all of our bus routes.
And it's for people with disabilities. FlexRide is for the general public, for anybody.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I understand that. And thank you, because I think I had heard that before.
It's within 3/4 of a mile of a fixed-route bus stop or train stop.
JEFF BECKER: Or train, right.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. Well, I was noticing the map that Chair Tisdale
referenced on page 2, and the community circulation areas. And I noticed that Evergreen and
Conifer were noted there. I had an interesting conversation with the principal of Conifer High
School. And he asked about some sort of service, such as a FlexRide service, that could provide
opportunities for some of their youth to get rides to jobs. Some of them, like at Pine Junction
Station, could then access a trip into Evergreen for a job. And so is that something that would
apply here?
JEFF BECKER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: It would be really good to know, and I would actually like to ask staff if they
wouldn't mind setting up a meeting with this principal, and we could just talk through some of
those ideas. Because it's a very recent issue that was brought up to me, and I think this could be
an excellent opportunity to pilot something like that.
Another thing, I've been harping on page 10, the trips, the FlexRide trips are not included in our
trip planner. And when we shifted-- I've said this many times-- the 85 fixed-route service to the
FlexRide, it kind of fell off the map, and people didn't know where to look. So I was just
wondering how soon do you anticipate that new development occurring?
JEFF BECKER: It's in procurement right now, and we're developing the specs for it, and
working with our-- we already have consultants already on call that do this work. So I anticipate
we would have something before the end of this year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that'd be great, because I've been complaining about it since last May. So
I'm encouraged. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Referencing the same exact map, I wanted to note that we'll soon have the G
Line going up there, so we'll have service reflected there. And I think with the onset of that new
high-quality rail, we have an opportunity to conceptualize the last and first mile that might work
best for that area. And I just wanted to say, especially since you can see the faint purple lines
which represent the local routes, I think those are going to be pretty considerably curtailed, too,
with the G Line.
So I wanted to initiate or see about initiating a process for looking at that, for maybe the end of
line station and/or some others based on your experience with the other areas. It just seems like
we have an opportunity now. And if we can seize it and work on those, and then soon, I'm sure,
the N Line, as it begins to proceed toward opening. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you. Did you collect any ridership numbers on the shuttle service on the
Fitzsimmons campus?
JEFF BECKER: We do have that, and I think it's doing pretty well. I don't remember what they
are off the top of my head.
BOB BROOM: Could you send it to me?
JEFF BECKER: Yes.
BOB BROOM: Thanks.
JEFF BECKER: There is a lot going on around the metro area. I didn't even put everything in
here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'm curious how-- so as we're looking at these pilots, how
does that interface with our service standards? And as an agency, are we thinking about this from
a policy lens, and elevating the conversation to policy? And so that as we're talking about this
regional equity, it's something that we can go back to to evaluate how we are expanding pilots.
JEFF BECKER: Yes. And since we've been doing this for almost 20 years now, we actually do
have it in our performance evaluation system. So it's really another type of service, like we have
rail service and service to downtown and suburban. So this is another class, and they're all
evaluated against each other.
And then relatively speaking, you can see how the FlexRide services operate versus, say, the
suburban bus services. And we actually put that on the same chart, and you can see where one is
more appropriate than the other. And we've actually, just like we did with Brighton, we've had
others where we've had bus service where we've converted it to FlexRide, and where we've
converted FlexRide back to bus service. So yes, we are always trying to figure out what's the best
way to provide a service to meet that demand.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Oh, I want to speak. Thank you, Mr. Becker, very much. I think
that you've been doing, and your peers have been doing, some really great work, and Mr.
Genova. I'm happy to see, in my work in the community, that we are developing partnerships
that we have not so much in the past. And I know that through the Ride Alliance program and a
number of them we are working with a number of human service providers to look at different
ways to provide transportation not just on an RTD bus or on a fixed-rail system, but throughout
our region.
And I want to commend you all for the work that I see at the level that I do in my day-to-day job.
The word is getting out, and I think that's very good for our reputation in that. Anybody else? Do
we have anybody on the phone that has questions or comments? Director Lewis, I'll let you have
the last word this time.

SHONTEL LEWIS: One more question around the customer and community needs. And you
may not be in this process yet of identifying how you may go about collecting and soliciting
customer needs and inputs to determine how to move forward. And it's OK if not.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Becker. I think that we'll try and go back to the
part of the updates that we skipped over, which should be service availability for March 2019.
Mr. Ford, is that going to be you?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, it is. I just want to give you an update on our service availability for
March of 2019. We came in about 99.03 of all scheduled hour bus service for March. Compared
to last year, we've made some really good progress. If you look at the numbers this year, we were
at 1,225.71, and March of '18 we were at 1,556.16 hours. And then if you look at the year-to-date
numbers, you can see that we've also made some good strides, 1,791.7 compared to 2018,
3,216.29.
Some of the numbers that were driven in March were really due to that, I guess you call it the
snow cyclone bomb, or whatever that thing is. And we also, being prepared for tomorrow,
actually I've been discussing that. And we've got some follow up and preparation that we're
doing right now for that potential issue that's going to happen sometime probably during the
afternoon peak tomorrow.
So again, but 987 hours really consumed us over two days with that one we just talked about in
March. So we did provide the 99.03 hours. That equates to about 2,608 hours of shift time, and
about 20,864 hours being provided through our services. So that's kind of the highlight of the
service availability.
We're continuing to work on trying to secure more operators and recruit. We're working very
hard on that effort right now. We've got some meetings with the community colleges coming up
soon. Thank you. And we're looking at other ways to partner, working with our union to see
what other avenues that we can make happen. So I will keep you abreast of that.
The only other thing I had in here was just a little bit of update on some of the rail service, as
well. Light rail provided slightly over 99.95 percent of all scheduled hours for light rail in
January. Their on-time performance was at 92.5%. In February, we provided 99.3% of service,
and their on-time performance is 90.97%, which exceeds our service standards at 90%.
Commuter rail for that time was at 97.76 for all scheduled hours in January. On-time
performance for commuter rail was at 95.5%, and in February we provided 95.69 of our
scheduled service hours. And our on-time performance at that time was at 87.36. Again, these
are just some highlights I wanted to share with you to keep you abreast of how we were doing
with the operations. And obviously we'll continue to keep you apprised of how we're doing and
making headway.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Mr. Ford. Chair Tisdale, would you like to speak?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just one question if I may. and first of
all, thank you very much for the communications with the community colleges, because I think
that really is a very strong way of us being able to build our talent pool. But secondly, relative to
the on-time statistics, I'm wondering, people see this, and sometimes I think they may have the
wrong impression. For example, looking at the commuter rail operations, you say that on-time
performance came in at 87.36% for the month of February.
I'm wondering, if you were to take plus or minus 3 minutes, or some measure such as that,
because I don't know exactly what the metric is. But if you were to say, the train is due at noon,
it arrived at 12:01. Obviously it's not on time, but if it arrived at 12:04, for example, it's within
five minutes. I mean, how do we measure? Do we say it's within plus or minus 5? And I'm
wondering, what happens if we said, well, if you took plus or minus 7 or 8, we actually have
96% on time.
MICHAEL FORD: You could extrapolate a higher number, but we want to challenge ourselves.
And that's why we look at those numbers very seriously.
DOUG TISDALE: No, and I appreciate that. But I'm just wondering if there is an ability for us
to be able to communicate to the public that, even though the number is, for example, 87.36%
commuter rail February on-time. Nonetheless, if you take a window, broaden that window, as the
airlines do with-- because I think airlines it's 15 minutes plus or minus and you're on time. So I'm
wondering what happens to our data if we were to do that. It's not something you have to answer
tonight, but I think it's something we could consider.
DAVID GENOVA: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please, Mr. Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: So, our on-time, if we're within five minutes, we consider that on time. So
that is included in our on-time performance. Not in terms of early departure, but if we arrive up
to that five minutes after a scheduled arrival, that I do believe we consider on time. We have
some other measurements that, in the concession agreement, for example, on commuter rail, I
believe we measure up to. Because contractually we look at a couple other thresholds, and I think
one is 15 minutes. So I think we can easily look at that one. On our own side, I don't know
whether we collect that on bus or light rail. But that is something that we can look at. Because
when you look at that within 15 on the commuter route, it goes up dramatically.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that clarification. Did that answer your question, sir?
DOUG TISDALE: It does indeed. Thank you, Madam.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Just a question about, if a bus or a train arrives one or two minutes
early, do they stay in place until they're back on schedule before they leave, or if it came two

minutes early, and they leave one minute early, and I'm there at the time that it's supposed to
leave, and if it's already left, how does that work?
MICHAEL FORD: Well, they're supposed to be there on time. They're not supposed to leave
early. We have data. We have ways to find out if they have departed early from their time point.
BOB BROOM: OK. Because I noticed today coming down, the train came in a minute or so
early, and I never really paid attention to how long they dwelled before they took off. But I was
just sitting here thinking about that. Thanks.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah. They should not be taking off early from the time point. That's
something that we really address.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Dave, can you just restate again, I'm sorry, your response to
Chair Tisdale regarding the commuter rail? You stated it towards the end, if we consider this,
then that performance would be a lot higher. What did you mean?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, so for example, we measure on-time performance, if it's within five
minutes of arrival, it's considered on time. And in the concession agreement it might be 4
minutes and 59 seconds but another threshold that I think we measure on commuter rail, because
it's part of the contract, is we do look at the arrivals that are within 15 minutes. So let's say the
on-time performance would be, let's just say hypothetically would be 95%. If we were to look at
typically what happens within 15 minutes, it's probably going to be like 99%. So that's what I
mean. We're not measuring an on-time performance, but if we look at it from a different variable,
on arrival, and not blowing it way out, but looking pretty close, those numbers are really good.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Genova. Seeing nobody else up there, I think we have
finished these updates. So we're going to move on to other matters. Do I have any interest from
other matters? Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: I do not have anything else for you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Other matters, Mr. Genova? Oh, I have-- Director Menten, I'm so sorry.
Were you not finished? You're finished? You're not finished?
NATALIE MENTEN: No I'm over-- we're on other matters.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're on other matters.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm on other matters.
KATE WILLIAMS: Carry on.

NATALIE MENTEN: North Line-- is RRP still looking good? Do we have any substantial
construction issues that the Board should be aware of?
DAVID GENOVA: I would say not at this time. We continue to work to the project just like any
other design build project. We started the clearance testing with pulling a vehicle not under
power, I think earlier in the month. And that is intended. We go out and we do all of our
clearance measurements. And those things, that takes quite a while. And we're still on schedule
next week, middle of the month, to do a test under power, with a vehicle under power with the
overhead power and energized. And so we're on schedule in terms of our testing for now, and
we're moving ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Are there any construction defects the Board should be made aware of?
DAVID GENOVA: Nothing that's risen to my attention that's been reported to me from Henry
and his team.
NATALIE MENTEN: And is dispatch still planned to be conducted by RTD internal?
DAVID GENOVA: I'm sorry, I didn't catch the first part.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is dispatch intended to be run by RTD?
DAVID GENOVA: That's my understanding right now. We've made a lot of progress in those
conversations on the dispatching conversation with Denver Transit Partners and our team. And
that's still ongoing. I think we still have some things to resolve there. But one of the things that
has made an improvement there is that we're going to be both on the same software platform
with the data model 8 upgrade that DTP is doing, Eagle project-wide. That will be the same
platform we'll be utilizing on North Metro.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is the budget still online with what we were presented to our conversation
in January?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Anybody else have other matters? Mr.
Genova?
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'll be brief. I just wanted-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: --to bring a couple of things up very quickly. I don't know if Board members
have been invited or not, or are aware, but the Downtown Denver Partnership is having their
awards presentation on-- let me find the date-- April 18. And I understand, although they don't

like to publicize these things out, RTD will be receiving an award from the Partnership on that
night. And so I wanted to just get an idea if any Board members have RSVP'd or are interested in
going that night.
So if you could let us know, please. I would say let the Board office know, let Barbara in the
Board office staff know if you plan on attending, because we're trying to plan for the receipt of
that award. And we just would like-- I would like to know how many Board members are there,
so we can plan on that. So please let Barbara know if you plan on going to that.
Quickly, G Line update, a few quick things, because we've had a number of questions as we've
been turning around rather quickly going from our opening announcement to planning activities
and things. First of all, thank you to the Board members that came out today. We did a G Line
ride. It was really, I think, fantastic to get out there and build some enthusiasm. We had nine
Board members attend, and we had four former Board members attend, including the four former
Director Anderson, Director Hoy, Director Solano, and Director Francone. And so it was a good
trip, 25, 26 minutes each way.
So quick updates, just yesterday we received the written orders from the Public Utilities
Commission on the final 12 crossings on the G Line. And I know I earlier reported that the
hearing went through the PUC and they were approved. But we were starting to get a little
nervous that we hadn't seen the written orders yet. The good news is we got them all yesterday,
and they're pretty much exactly the same as the first three that they approved. So that's good
news, and one more thing we can check off. So we have all the approvals in hand, written from
the Public Utilities Commission, so we're good there.
So as far as the FRA, Henry and I were there last week. We had two meetings. One on quiet
zones, which was kind of an impromptu meeting that we had. It wasn't scheduled, but it was a
good meeting to have to continue to work through the details on our notice of establishment on
those quiet zones. We continue to work that, and they're probably going to be established at two
different times.
We'll probably be able to get quiet zones in the Wheat Ridge Arvada area probably-- I'm just
estimating-- probably about a week before opening. And then the Adams, the three in Adams
County are going to probably be right up on opening, is what it looks like right now. But after
the ride again today, I was really surprised to see how much development. I think the last time I
actually rode the train on the G Line was about a year and a half or two years ago. And just the
development that has been occurring, and then just the reminder of how close a lot of those
homes are. So that'll be really good that we can get those in place. And then we had our regular
monthly progress meeting with the FRA, and that went well.
So onto opening weekend, I'll just quickly-- you'll be getting detailed information on all of this,
but I've been getting some questions. So I won't give you the detail tonight, but I'm going to give
you a rough outline. So Thursday evening, April 25, we'll do a VIP reception. And that'll be early
evening. People will board the G Line trains, and we'll go out to Wheat Ridge Station, and we'll
have our VIP reception there.

And the invites-- people have been asking, well, who's been invited? And I haven't, you know,
people have been contacting me, and they haven't been invited. The invites are going to go out
tomorrow. This is always an interesting process, because there's always somebody we're going to
miss. So if you hear that you have somebody that we've missed, please let Pauletta Tonilas know.
But they go out tomorrow. If there's people that you're interested on being on that VIP list, go to
Pauletta. Send her an email with their information so that we can email them.
Friday morning, April 26, we'll do the grand open ribbon cutting. So we'll probably start here at
Union Station and advance to a couple jurisdictions, do cuttings along the way, arrive and have
the grand opening ceremony at Wheat Ridge, same location, so we only have to setup one venue
for logistics and things for the team. And we're going to try to get that started by 9:00, end it by
10:00 AM.
And then there will be free rides on the G Line, just the G Line, that day. And then on Saturday,
April 27, we'll have station parties on the G Line. And the entire rail system, the entire rail
network-- not bus, but the entire rail system-- will be free. This is similar fashion to what we do,
or same fashion, on every rail opening and the BRT opening, the flyer opening that we've done
earlier. And then regular service will start up on Sunday, April 28.
So just a reminder, the G Line service plan, meaning all the bus service changes that will
happen-- well, they won't happen when we open the G Line, because we weren't confident
enough to build them into the May run board. I won't get into the detail, but that's a huge long
process. And once we start down that path, we can't unwind it.
And so the actual changes to all of the bus network around the G Line will happen with the
August run board. And we're working internally right now to determine what that date's going to
be. And we know that's going to be import for stakeholders. So as soon as we can get that date,
we will publish that.
We did meet with the mayors and the commissioners and the stakeholders and explain all this to
them. And we said, would you rather have a line sooner, and not have the bus connections,
which will be an inconvenience for a period of time? But I was of the opinion, we need to open it
as soon as we're ready, and the stakeholders we're all in agreement. That's what they wanted to
see. So we've explained all that.
Another thing to be to be cognizant of is, on April 26, we will be adding two stops on the B Line.
Right now, the B line runs from Westie all the way to Union Station. Beginning on April 26, the
B Line will stop at 41st and Fox and Pecos Junction. And that will be the B Line's new operation,
so it opens up some more flexibility for those communities there. We're very glad to be
delivering that. It's going to add three minutes to the B Line trip, so it's going to go from 12 to 15
minutes.
So we are in the midst-- right now the communications team is preparing all the messaging
around all these things, including other things like around safety messages, quiet zone messages,
will I see flaggers out there when you open, and what does that mean. And they're working
frantically on putting all these together. And so we will, of course, give you all the package of all

the talking points and all the information you need. And that's probably going to be coming out
relatively quickly. And then we're working with all of the communities and stakeholders and
their public information folks to help us communicate all of this information out to the public.
And so now I have a suggestion. And this is a proposal. You know, we're overdue on this line
unlike we've been overdue on anything else. And in conversations with Chair Tisdale and
myself, we would like to ask the Board, we have a proposal to offer two weeks of free service to
the community, because this has been such a long time in coming, and we've had nothing like
this before. I have run that through our transit equity manager, about whether that would be an
issue for internal, for equity, to have no fares on the line for two weeks. He says one or two
weeks would not be a problem.
So what I'd like to just ask is if there would be any objection-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I move that by acclamation, this Board, as a dramatic, tangible
expression of its appreciation to the region for their incredible, phenomenal patience, that this
Board support and approve two weeks of free service on the G Line, commencing on the first
date available.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would take a second.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I have-- I have a movement and a second. Do we have-JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: And we are going to have-- I hear somebody on the phone. Do I have
somebody on the phone?
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Yeah, Jeff is still here.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So we're going to open this up now to discussion. You're going to have
to wait a minute this time. I think Director Lewis is first.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I like when these things come to us before we're in the
meeting so we can have time to think about these things. But since we're here right now, I'll
respond to that. It's not that I'm not in support of this, because the folks along the G Line have
waited a really long time. What I did receive recently in my inbox is a lot of folks complaining
about the blaring horns on the A Line. And so as I'm thinking about equity, and I'm thinking
about what this means for the folks with my district and my constituencies, maybe this isn't the
appropriate time, but I'm going to have to be responsible for answering those questions.
And so if we can just talk about that at some point, with the horns for the three years, and all of
that great stuff, and the recent issues we've had with the horns and the emails and the
communication, I would just be phenomenal if we could have that conversation. But I am totally

in support of it. If the equity folks said that it's equity, that's great. But let's talk about what other
communities have endured, as well. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I just wanted to say, it's an excellent idea, both as a recognition and an
acknowledgment of the impacts along the quarter, but also as a way to, I think, really help to
launch the service. Regarding the A Line, we in the G Line quarter feel like they're kindred
spirits. And in fact, when the testing really ramped up, there began a Facebook conversation
between the two quarters with tips about how to endure it.
So I hear you, and I think some of the same questions and issues have arisen. And anything that
can help in that direction, I'd like to see, as well. But I hope we can move forward on this for the
G, because, oh, it would be so welcome. And it will be a really nice gesture on the part of the
agency.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker, do you have comment?
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Yeah. I think Director Lewis made a fantastic point. If there is a
difference to be made, not to split hairs or anything like that, or to pit one against the other, but
the difference I see with this, with the G Line over the A Line, is that there was no service on the
G Line. So the residents along that quarter had to put up with all of the construction and all of the
noise without the benefit of having service, and the uncertainty of when it would end, up until
recently.
But I think Director Lewis raises a really great point, recognizing what the residents along the G
Line also put up with. But I do support the two weeks of free service for the G Line. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Her machine is off, so she can't press-KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, well, we do that well. Director Lewis and I do that. Director Menten,
you would like to speak?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. While that may all sound good, I have to think of the
precedent it sets. And the first thing that popped in my head is, if we opened up the line going to
Longmont in 2040, how many months and weeks of free service are we going to give? And
going really to a serious note, the people on the A Line dealt with a lot for a long time. So I
personally don't feel like agreeing to two weeks of free fares-- they're going to ride it regardless.
We just heard tonight that we've got to make budget cuts. Do people want service? Do they want
us to cut service? Or do we want to give free fares for two weeks so we all feel better? For me,
I'd be a "no" vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that comment. We want to make sure that everybody has a
chance to speak, and we all have different opinions. Chair Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am. I do want to just emphasize that this motion in
no way, shape, or form indicates that we should not address, consider, and do our best to resolve
other issues that impact other lines, such as any issues on the University of Colorado A Line, and
being creative in how we address that. But in the meanwhile, this is an opportunity for us to
make a significant statement, not just to the people along the G Line.
And the service that would be free would just be for the people on the G Line for those two
weeks. The idea is that it's a statement to the broader community that we want to express how we
provide support and how we provide an acknowledgment, a recognition of what they have been
through. And that we will do that for anyone anywhere as to any special circumstance that
presents.
And, if you think about it, usually at the beginning of a line is when you have the least adoption
of the line by users. The first one's free, folks. The rest you'll pay for. That's the message that we
can also send, and I think it's a very impactful message. So I do encourage you, when the Chair
asks for a voice vote, because we just need a voice vote on this, please to vote your voice "Aye."
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Director Cook, I'm going to let Director Lubow
speak first since I skipped her accidentally.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. You know, my first response is to say, oh yeah, let's go for
it. Because actually it's an impulse of generosity and of consideration. And I support that. But as
I'm thinking more about it, I'm thinking about the A Line. And I know from David, you know,
some of the people-- I mean, it's been hellacious for them.
So I would think they would feel, you're going to give these people two free weeks, but give me
my three years back. I mean, there's a lot of anger about what's happened. And I think this might
be salt in the wound. And I'm also thinking about the people who aren't getting any rail yet. So I
guess what I'm saying is, I love the impulse, but I really think we should think through, what
about the people who are legitimately aggrieved for other reasons? How are they going to be
impacted by this largesse?
And it's so it's no longer just a simple, what a great impulse. I'd like a little time to think about
what to do, personally. We don't have it, but that's where I'm coming from. I really love the
thought of being helpful to the G Line folks, because I know that they lived through a lot. But is
it going to be salt in the wound to others, which we don't want to do. I know that.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. Just for the sake of the record, I want to make
clear, this still has to go before the full Board on Tuesday night. There is time. This has to go
before the full Board on Tuesday night. Nothing that the committee does is final.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're not going to make it happen here now
DOUG TISDALE: It has to go before the full Board.
JUDY LUBOW: And you'll be voting no.

KATE WILLIAMS: Point of order, does this follow our bylaws?
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry, I can't hear.
KATE WILLIAMS: Does this follow our bylaws?
DOUG TISDALE: The question is, does this follow our bylaws? It's something that, arguably-and I'm sorry, may I respond?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DOUG TISDALE: It's something that arguably falls within the discretion and authority of the
general manager to make this decision. However, general manager, I think if we're making what
I consider to be a significant gesture-- and I recognize that there are those who may be
uncomfortable with it, but I think it's important to make a significant gesture-- that the Board
should step to the line and say yes. And the Board has this as a start. And we can make a motion
at any time, and it comes before the, for authority, to grant authority to the general manager to
proceed. And I believe that, as a practical matter, my sense is it does.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. If everybody can hold on for just a minute, I'm going to
ask our counselor a question. So we are having a discussion here in this committee, and we have
a move to do something. I believe the move was to do this. And we have a second to take the
action.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Not take the action-- this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel-- but to take it to
the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That was not the move I heard. The move I heard was to take the
action, when in fact what we are doing is moving to take this discussion to the full Board as an
action item. In which case we would then vote, and we would have more discussion about it, and
then we would vote. Is that correct?
ROLF ASPHAUG: My understanding of this, Madam Chair, is that we, the Board is interested,
or there is an interest by members of the Board, to essentially provide, a sense of the Board as to
whether granting this two weeks would be something the Board would approve of. The Board
typically has not gotten involved in details such as whether there is one day or two days or things
like that.
And the chair has-- the General Manager has the prerogative to engage in the day-to-day
operations of the agency, and that includes things such as marketing, promotions, things of this
nature. But I think it's recognizing that this is a pretty-- this is something we have not done
before, offering two weeks with the understanding that, number one, this is the only line where
we don't even have a bus service scheduled yet when we're opening it. So that's another factor.
OK.

KATE WILLIAMS: We don't need to hear how you feel about it. We need to know if we are
going to-- so I am suggesting now that this item come from this committee to the full Board
meeting for consideration. And do we need to vote to see if it's going to move out of committee
now?
ROLF ASPHAUG: No. Just as a sense of the Board now I think is what's being requested. And
then it would still be a sense of the Board at the Board meeting, is my understanding. Although
between now and the Board meeting, it could be decided to make it a formal vote, if the Board so
chooses.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So do we-- oh, we have lots more discussion on this. OK. You guys
sure you don't want to wait to discuss it at the Board meeting, huh? There's a little button on the
side here that says never mind, if you're willing to discuss it offline or at a later time. OK, I'll
proceed to go down the line. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I wanted to-- thank you for the second bite at the apple. I wanted to
underscore something that Chair Tisdale mentioned. I think it's significant, too. And that is the
prospect for increased ridership as a result of this. I would view it as sort of an investment in
future revenues and ridership. I know from experience that, when you're starting a new service, it
takes a lot to get people out of their routine, to try something out, to go through the frustration of
trying to use the ATM machine, kind of thing there.
And if you can make it that much easier for a block of time when they're not dealing with the
throngs of opening day, I think you have a much better prospect of a significant ridership down
the road. I think we should look at this as, you know, maybe it doesn't need to be two weeks in
every instance. But this might be sort of a pilot to try out a longer time frame, keep close track of
the ridership that we see as a result, and see whether it makes sense in some other areas.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much for that viewpoint. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I do want to say that my intention is not to be divisive. I don't want this
Board to be divided over this decision, because I do think it's important that RTD shows our
compassion and shows our humanity. That's really important to me. And I will say that,
previously, during the government shutdown, I did raise to the Board that possibly we could
provide folks who were utilizing the A Line to get to work in the airport, free rides. And that
conversation went to staff, and that conversation didn't go anywhere because of the fiscal
responsibilities. At least that's how it was brought back to me.
And so I'm just raising these things, as we're talking about precedents and we're talking about
policy. I will say again, I just want to underscore this, I am in support. And when this does come
to the Board, I will be a "yes" vote. But I do want to talk about what this means as an agency,
and not what this means for one rail line. And that's really, really important to me. And I think
there's opportunity for RTD to do some things different, and this is an opportunity to do that for
our riders and for our communities. And I hope we stay committed to that for all of our riders
and for all of our communities. Thank you so much.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd just like to point out that we've painted ourself into a
corner here. If this comes up on the agenda next week and we turn it down, that's going to be the
big story that's going to come out about the G Line. I mean, obviously we're going to be in a
position where we're going to have to vote in favor of this. But there must be some better way of
bringing something like this forward than the way this was brought forward. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, sir. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: That was a good lead in that Director Broom had. Thank you. I don't know that
this needs formal Board attention. It's in the purview of the general manager. I don't want to step
on his authority. If I say, no, don't do this, it's something that's in his authority to do. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Anybody else? OK. So I'm not real clear myself on Bob's
rules of order here on what happens with this discussion now. We're going to vote? We're going
to vote if we're going to move this out of committee into the big Board meeting. OK. Let's vote.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Just a voice-- just essentially just a voice-KATE WILLIAMS: I can do a voice vote. Everybody who wants to see this topic beat to death
again next Tuesday night, please raise their hand. I think it carries. And we will be talking about
it again. Jeff, what's your vote?
JEFF WALKER (ON PHONE): Aye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aye. He's voting yes.
BOARD MEMBER: Let's still vote count.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We can count. Put your hand back up. I'll count. I'm counting Jeff as
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine yeses. I believe that it only requires-- I counted
Jeff. I believe that the motion carries forward from here. OK. Do we have any other matters?
Like rats fleeing a sinking ship. Look at them go. Yes, Natalie.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're looking at some people who didn't vote yes. Is that right?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. We have a number of people who did not vote "yes," but we have nine
yeses, and that carries the motion forward. OK. Based on the fact that everybody else seems to
know that this meeting is adjourned, I will entertain a motion to adjourn this meeting. And a
second. Thank you. The next meeting will be May 7 at the same time and the same location.
Good night.

