2021-10-19
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Part 2
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell, I see your hand.
BOBBY DISHELL: Don't want you to get upset, but I have a third amendment from the floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] I'm sorry. Tell me why you have your hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: To make my-- oh. I would like to move to amend section nine public comment to have
the first sentence read as follows. "Public commentary germane to the topics listed in the published
meeting agenda for the current or immediately preceding month will be taken at the beginning of each
committee meeting, period." The spirit behind this is to accommodate the purpose of having a Tuesday
and a Wednesday for public comment, which is that some people can take Tuesday, some people can
make Wednesday. And so if you can only make Wednesday, you should be able to comment on what
happened on Tuesday or for the next Tuesday that's upcoming.
Just that is the purpose of-- amendment is not to restrict people to just what's happening that night. If
there's something going on, and you're able to make it out to the public, you can speak to us about what's
happening. Just because you're late by a day, it still gives you the opportunity to provide feedback or
early feedback..
KATE WILLIAMS: So let me for my own edification, and then we can have some discussion because I'm
not real clear on the amendment is to allow public comment at every meeting on any other meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct, within the past month.
KATE WILLIAMS: Within the past month. OK. Director Catlin, did you want to speak to that before I take a
mover and a second on this amendment?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. And I'm not clear because I believe that Director Dishell said it was germane to the
agenda item. But it seems to me that if we have one committee on Tuesday, that's vastly different than a
committee on Wednesday. That comment on Wednesday would not be germane if it came forward from
Tuesday's discussion.
So I think the language might be not consistent with your intent because I think what you want to say is if
we have Finance or the committee-- or I don't know which committee it is. But if we have one on one day,
and then we have a very different committee on the next day, that would not be germane to that agenda.
That was just my comment. That's all.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Respectfully, Madam Chair, I don't think [CLEARS THROAT] that the hurdle that you
see really is a hurdle. I believe that as I heard it articulated, commentary germane to the topics listed in
the published meeting agenda for-- and I forget the exact phrasing, but it was essentially for that meeting
or any other meeting in the prior month does restrict it. It still has to be germane to one of the topics that's
on the published agenda in one of those meetings. So it's not a prohibition that says, well, it's not
germane to this particular meeting because the adjective "germane" applies to the entire clause that
follows, which is that meeting or the meetings in the prior month. So I think it actually does work.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I may have misheard it. So I was just concerned that it might be inconsistent.
DOUG TISDALE: And, Madam Chair, if I may, I would look to Director Dishell to see if I have correctly
characterized the import of his amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I appreciate Director Catlin looking out for the intent. And Director Tisdale, yeah, you
were correct. The intent there is that germane applies to the current topics but that agenda as well as the
proceeding month's agenda.
KATE WILLIAMS: So let us do this correctly. I'm going to ask for a mover and a second on this
amendment. And then we will have discussion. Do I have a mover?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Guissinger. And second is-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, hi there, Julien. How are you? OK. So now we have a mover and a second.
And we will now have discussion on Director Dishell's amendment. Do I see any hands up? OK, my hand
is up. Putting my hand up. The issue that I have here that I would be happy to have anybody comment on
is what will happen if the constituent begins speaking, and it's not germane to anything except something
that they want to talk about?
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: And I just answered the question. A point of order would be raised indicating that the
speaker is out of order. Additionally, another way of doing it, the highest procedural motion under Robert's
is to call for the orders of the day. And that restricts it to the topics that are germane.

So if someone got up and said, say, by the way, I want to talk about having free rides for anybody with
blue eyes, it's simply not-- I'm presuming would not be germane to anything. A point of order would be
raised. And the speaker would be asked please to terminate their comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That exactly was my point. Director Dishell, your hand is
down quickly. Woo! Director Buzek, I see you next in line.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I just need clarification. I may have misheard. So the comment from the
public at a committee meeting can be items germane to that committee meeting, any committee meeting
that month, or any committee meeting from the prior month? Did I hear that right?
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct. Oh, sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's nice. That's OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOBBY DISHELL: May I respond to the question?
KATE WILLIAMS: You may. Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: I guess, Director Buzek, that is the intent. But I realize after I said it that we don't
publish-- next Tuesday's-- the Board agenda isn't published yet. So as phrased from a practical
standpoint, the effect would be it's that meeting or the prior meetings, because to my knowledge, as of
today, we don't publish committee agendas out more than-VINCE BUZEK: Well, I got the answer to my question. And I guess the reason I bring it up is that what I
see is in any given month, we have a committee meeting and a Board meeting. And typically, the action
items that come out of committee get voted on and adopted in that Board meeting. And the following
month, if you are letting public comment on action that's already taken and it's been adopted, I don't know
what the purpose of that is.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I think the purpose from my perspective I think that's brought up a lot here,
which is that the Board takes action. And often, the Board also has the ability to take a different action
and to change our course. So to allow public comment on actions we've already taken is another way for
the public to hold us accountable and say, look, you've made decision X, and decision X looked bad in my
opinion, and here's why.
To allow for that civic engagement and to-- you have to use this justification both ways regularly in the
meetings of, while this isn't final, the Board made a decision, the Board can also always change the
decision. And so that is what it seeks to accomplish. And again, it seems to really try to encourage people
to comment publicly.

VINCE BUZEK: I understand that. I appreciate public comment. But if the Board has adopted something
in a prior month, and you're going to let people comment on it the following month, it's not properly before
the Board. The Board can't take any additional action on it in that current month because there have been
no notice or anything like that.
So, I mean, I'm all in favor of letting people comment on anything going on in that given month. You
know? But going back to a prior month, I don't think I can support that because I don't know where it gets
us other than maybe somebody was late to the party the prior month and can make a comment. But
there's not much we can do with it other than have that information I suppose. But anyway, that's my
comment. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Dishell, I would like to point out that the public can
comment anytime. It is not mandatory that in order for me personally to hear my constituents that they
have to present themselves at a meeting. I get phone calls. I get emails. I get text messages. And my
constituents can comment to me 24/7, 365 days out of the year. So I am not real clear my own self on
why it's necessary that we have public comment at every meeting related to any meeting prior to then
before and the next night. And I'm a little bit confused if your constituents can only reach you through
public comment?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Who's that? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah. Please.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Just because it's germane to this discussion that we're having. So I raised this
initially about having public comment at every committee. And the reason I raised this is because the way
in which the Board is currently structured, we have our committee meetings, things pass out of the
committee or maybe fail. [LAUGHS] And then we take it to the Board for an official vote, and that's when
we have public comment. And at least it's been my experience on the Board that the decisions are
already made when it comes to public comment, and we tend to not change our minds or our votes in that
way.
And so the ask around having public comment at every committee is that the public can, one, see the
discussion that's happening with Board of Directors and also provide some comment as it pertains to
discussion that we are having or the agenda item that is relevant. But as it stands now, folks have to wait
for-- if we have our first meeting on the first Tuesday of the month, folks have to wait until the fourth
Tuesday of the month so that all Directors can hear from the individual who is providing the public
comment. And while I understand that each of us is in communication with our constituents-- and as we
should be-- and we receive those communications in different ways that it's an opportunity for us to hear
from all of the constituents within the Regional Transportation District on conversations that are relevant
in that time. And so that's why I was asking for the public comment to happen at every single committee.

I will just state for Director Buzek that one of the things that we're concerned about is actually something
that hasn't happened. I've served on the Board for three years, going into my fourth year. And I have not
seen-- and please keep me honest and correct me if I'm wrong. But I've not seen a constituent come to
public comment during our Board meeting and talk about a concern or an issue that was raised six
months ago. They tend to talk about issues that have fallen into one of the four meetings that we would
have had previously. And so that's been my experience. But I'm happy to hear from other Directors.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so let's have a little order here. I'm going to let some people who've been sitting
patiently with their hands up speak. And then we can come back to the open discussion on Director
Dishell's amendment. Director Broom, is it relevant to the amendment that Director Dishell made?
BOB BROOM: No, it's not.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Then I'm sorry. You have to stand by for just a minute. Director Catlin, is your
comment relevant to the amendment that we are discussing?
PEGGY CATLIN: It is. And I had the same concerns that Director Buzek had that we take public comment
of any nature regardless of topic at all of our Board meetings. And I presume that would continue. The
idea here is that for committee meetings, then we could accept comment from that day or the previous
day or anything in that month.
I would be hesitant to permit any kind of public comment that wasn't germane to the activities of that week
for the committees themselves. But to allow any type of public comment as we do now in my mind would
be OK. But after the committees, we could receive comment at those meetings, which we have not done
up to this point. But then to have the opportunity to have a second bite at the apple at the regular Board
meeting when presumably we could have gathered more input would be appropriate. I just think that we
for efficiencies can find the comments to that which has occurred within the month on those individual
committees. That's my personal preference.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you. I think Director Catlin asked the question I was seeking as general
comments would always be included at the Board meetings of any nature. So if that is the case, then I'm
fine. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I just want to make sure that my point was made clear because Director
Lewis's comments made me think maybe I wasn't very clear. So I am all in favor of public comment in
committee meetings and having this change. But it doesn't seem to make sense to be able to have
people comment on things from a prior month when that action is done. It's done, right? We've had
committee, it's gone to the Board, it's done. And now we're in the next month.

I'm all in favor of all this comment at committee meetings and Board meetings. But what are we going to
do about the comment from last month? What can we do with that? And the reality of it is, Director
Dishell, it'll probably never happened. But I guess I just don't understand the concept. Thanks. That's all I
have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Again, and I'm going to let-- both Director Lewis have their hands
up, and Director Dishell. I want to point out that the Board of Directors, all of the information that we are
going to discuss on any Tuesday or Wednesday night comes out the Thursday before. People who wish
to comment have days to review it and formulate their questions or their comments. They can send those
to all or any of the Directors via phone or email prior to the meeting. They are always welcome to come
and speak at the meeting.
But I also have objections to comments that are outside of the meeting. We just are having a big
discussion here about trying to be more effective. And I personally do not see that having public comment
in person that didn't get answered any place before any other way about all kinds of meetings is going to
be effective. So that's my two cents worth. I'm coming back to you guys. Hold on. Director Davidson, is
your comment relevant to the discussion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, it is, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll keep it brief. I know we've heard this a number of times. And it is difficult for people
to come in and comment. I'm in support of this. I just wanted to explain that I understand a lot of the
concerns as well. Just for consideration, what I'm thinking about here is I'm interested to try something
new. If it does not work, and if we're getting a lot of either very long meetings or not topics that are
germane, I think we can address that, discuss how we might handle that. So simply just wanted to explain
my thinking in case that was helpful to anyone else. Thank you. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson. Good point. OK, let's see. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I do want to just underscore that we are talking about something that
has never happened before. Or I don't want to say has never happened, but has not happened since I've
been on the Board for the past few years. And so we might be planning for-- this may not be the best use
of our time.
But I would like to just talk about what it is that we're actually talking about. We're talking about three
minutes of public comment at every committee meeting for individuals to participate in. And it's been my
experience and maybe the experience of other Board meetings-- members, excuse me-- that even when
we were in the flesh, when we were meeting in the boardroom [LAUGHS] and not via Zoom that we
would have two, three, four members who were actually participating in public comment. And I bet you all
can recall a time where we've had our Board meetings, and we've had no one show up for public
comment.

And so I just want to really hone in on what it is that we're discussing. And we're discussing potentially 15
minutes max of public comment. And so when we talk about efficiency, I cannot envision having so many
people show up for public comment that we're going to be hearing public comment for two hours.
I would also like to say if public comment is available for every committee meeting, then we aren't
stacking it as we currently are only having that available once a month. And so if you have 10 folks who
wanted to public comment, you can potentially split those folks up for the different Tuesday, Wednesday
meeting versus all 10 of those folks are going to public comment because that's the only opportunity that
they have to speak to all of the Board of Directors. And I think this is an opportunity for us to remember
that people come to public comment to speak to all of us and have probably [LAUGHS] more often than
not very likely that they've already talked to each one of you and have come to tell us what it is that
they've already told you as individual Directors.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Broom has been so patient. I'm going to call
for a vote on Director Dishell's amendment. And then we will go. Director Rosenthal, do you need to
speak to Director Dishell's amendment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It would be great if somebody could read that for us again briefly so I can just
refresh.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell, I think that's on you.
BOBBY DISHELL: It would be my pleasure. And I just emailed it to Tai-Shrea. The motion would amend
the first sentence of section nine so that it reads, "Public comment germane to the topics listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month will be taken at the beginning
of each committee meeting, period."
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Everybody's good? The movement on this was Director Guissinger, second by
Director Bouquet. I'm going to ask are there any no votes on this amendment?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, this is Director Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom, Mr. Patient.
BOB BROOM: I'll be a no vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Anybody else?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, no vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek.

PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin, no.
KATE WILLIAMS: Catlin is a no vote. Make me write this all down. I am a no vote. Anybody else?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede, no vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else? OK. So this amendment then with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 yes votes and 5 no
votes, and nobody abstaining. The amendment is amended onto the original movement. Director Tisdale,
you wait till we're done with the vote? You good?
OK, we are moving on. Director Broom has been waiting very, very long time. We appreciate that,
Director Broom. We are now back to the original-- stand by, one recommended action, which possibly I
could read again, if I had it in my hot little fist, which I don't know if I do. Can someone read it for us, the
original recommended action?
SHELLEY COOK: I could do that, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be great, Director Cook. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. It would be for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to its committee
structure in order to optimize the number of members assigned to each committee, encourage full and
fruitful debate by decentralizing decision making, leverage members relevant experience, and promote
meeting efficiencies.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. OK. And on the original, I have Chair-- original, Director Dishell is
the mover, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede is the second. And we will now go to discussion on the original
recommended action. Director Broom, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I support for the most part the new committee make up that
were being discussed tonight. The only thing I would say is rather than doing this all at one time, why not
wait until we reconvene at a physical location, and then take a look and determine whether we really want
to have public invited to be heard at these committee meetings or not? Some people are going to be very
disappointed when they come in to one of those physical meetings, and they want to address the Board-[PHONE RINGING]
--and there's only five people there. But anyway, instead of doing this all in one bite, I'd say put it off for a
minute. And I got to hang up my other phone.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. We appreciate that. Director Tisdale, I see your hand next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. [CLEARS THROAT] Two thoughts, each of which
is sort of a housekeeping matter that I would ask some clarification on. I don't know that they rise to the
level of an amendment, but I need to clarify them. Specifically regarding the motion now as amended in
addressing the first item brought forward by Director Cook [CLEARS THROAT] saying that we would

meet on the second Tuesday and Wednesday of the month. I just realized that we may have inartfully
stated that unintentionally because I have to ask what about the month when Wednesday is on the first
day of that month? In that case, the eighth day of that month is the second Wednesday.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: But the 14th day of that-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, jeez.
DOUG TISDALE: --is the second Tuesday. And so-PAUL ROSENTHAL: [GROANS]
DOUG TISDALE: --I believe a-KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal? Director Rosenthal, it'd be great if you would mute yourself until it's
your turn to speak. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry, Madam.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: So the point is that that is easily solved if we were to take-- and I would ask if we could
seek unanimous consent on this to say that the resolution as proposed by Director Cook and moved by
someone else and seconded and then adopted by the committee unanimously by this committee
unanimously is to say "the second Tuesday and," and then insert two words, "the following," and then
continue on Wednesday. So it would read "the second Tuesday and the following Wednesday." So
instead of saying the second Tuesday and Wednesday, the fix is the second Tuesday and the following
Wednesday. And I would ask at this time, Madam Chair, if it's your pleasure, if we could seek unanimous
consent for that amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I can do that. Is there anyone who is opposed to adding
the words "and the following Wednesday" to the recommended action? Please speak now or forever hold
your peace.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hearing nothing, I am assuming that that is effective. Do you have more to add at this
moment, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. The second housekeeping is the resolution itself does not contain the
specific recommendations that are contained in the discussion. So I would again ask if we could just seek
unanimous consent that the recommended action item adds at the end "in accordance with the following
discussion." That would then capture the discussion points that are enumerated paragraphs one through

nine below in the discussion. Because right now, it just says we want to change things to make them
better. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got it. I think that we can take that on as if anyone is not-- there's only one thing. I have
to get a Robert's Rules of Order gold star if we get through this and finally get to take a vote on the
original recommended action. Is there anybody who is opposed to the add on to the end of the original
recommended action? Hearing none, we will add that. I hope that somebody at RTD is taking notes
because I am not at the moment. OK. Director Tisdale, thank you for all of that. Do you have more to
add?
DOUG TISDALE: Just one more. And we all know that our staff is taking copious competent notes in all
regards as to each of these comments. My last comment is that the discussion has been raised in I think
other fora that the isolation of external government relations to the Executive Committee might be
problematic. And I think that a comment has already been made to the effect that the Executive
Committee could and should take the opportunity when it presents itself to engage other members of the
Board as well. So I think that problem actually is solved and is not one that should be an overwhelming,
debilitating issue in going forward with the recommended action now as amended. So I thank you very
much for the opportunity to raise those points.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. It's always a pleasure. I want to point out as was stated
earlier in this meeting that we're not Moses coming down the hill with this stuff carved in stone. So we're
going to give it a shot as it stands so far. And I'm open to taking other comment. Director Tisdale, you
could put your hand down. And I will recognize Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I do want to say a special thank you to Directors
Cook and Tisdale for putting this all together. I know this is a massive amount of work for those who are
all involved.
This isn't a hill I'm willing to die on. But I did want to just maybe get a response either from Directors
Cook, Tisdale, or potentially a Director who voted in favor of this. And that comes down to the Chairs and
Vice Chairs of the standing committees. I know that if I look at it, it was a majority of eight to seven in
which it basically would be the Executive Committee selecting the Chairs and Vice Chairs of each of
those standing committees.
My main issue would be I feel like we would want to try to decentralize a little bit of the state from the
Executive Committee and give a little bit more autonomy to the standing committees. If I could just get a
response either from Directors Cook or Tisdale regarding preference for-- I notice the majority vote, but
for an eight to seven vote why there might be a preference, or what are the pros to having an Executive
Committee ultimately select the Chairs and Vice Chairs for these standing committees where, in my
opinion and my viewpoint, I feel it'd be more beneficial to have these committees to have a little bit more
autonomy to select their own Chair and Vice Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, Director Bouquet. I'm going to ask Director Cook to speak for a few
minutes so that we give Director Tisdale a chance to rest. Director Cook, you are muted.

SHELLEY COOK: Truthfully, I was in the eight. But I didn't feel strongly about it. And in fact, in the spirit in
which we're taking and making these changes, I would be willing to try that. These pieces don't have to go
on the bylaws. And they are the kinds of things that I think as we suggested about other pieces could be
modified as we see how the experience goes.
So I could switch to the other point of view pretty readily. And I don't know if that's useful in terms of what
we're doing tonight. We could act tonight as shown. We could discuss whether we want to change it at
the main meeting or just try out one way or the other.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I might, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: In favor of time, I appreciate that, Director Cook. I think it would be beneficial if
potentially we could add that to our main Board meeting where we would switch the language from
basically the Chairs and Vice Chairs will be selected by the members of the committee. I think that would
be excellent in favor of time. I want to respect everyone's time here for our main Board meeting,
especially if you are considering switching from the eight to the seven and making it eight to seven.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair or General Counsel, I think we need to clarify it would take a motion
either tonight or then in order to effect it. It might be that there'd be more time for people to think about it,
and we could take it up then. Your preference. But just to clarify, I think it would take a motion in one case
or the other.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's my understanding. Miss Snyder, do you concur?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, we need to have a motion to amend just as
we've been doing this whole evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Are we up for another-- Director Bouquet, would you like to have at another
amendment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure, I would love to. [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: My apologies. I don't know the direct section. It would be changing the language to
"the Chairs and Vice Chairs will be selected by the members of said committee" would be changing-- I'm
sorry. Director Cook, if you could help me out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Or Director Tisdale. Either one of you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: Finding that item. Hold on.

JULIEN BOUQUET: On the discussion item, it's discussion five. It would basically change-KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Dishell. That was good. Sign language now. We're
degraded to sign language. OK. Could you verbalize very clearly the amendment, Director Bouquet,
slowly and clearly. And then I will ask for a mover and a second on that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. So the amendment would change the language from "the Executive Committee
will nominate the Chair and Vice Chair of each committee. And the nomination will be ratified by the
Board as soon as practicable and generated each year. The term of each committee Chair and Vice
Chair will be one year." That language would change to "the Chairs and Vice Chairs will be selected by
the members of the committee."
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm good on that. Do I have a movement?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Move.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dishell, a second. Thank you. Now, do we have discussion on that amendment? I see
a bunch of hands up. If you do not wish to speak to this amendment, if you could put your hand down for
a moment. I will recognize you again in a bit. You want to speak to this amendment? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so the part about their terms will be for one year, that
still remains?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Bouquet? Yes. He says yes, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Yeah. So I guess I'm struggling with that part. I do think that the Chairs and
Vice Chairs should be selected by the Executive Committee and that the full Board can then have a say
on that kind of leadership. So I guess I do disagree with that concept. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You would be a no vote. Thank you, sir. Director Buzek, do you wish to speak to this
amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: I do. And I'm looking for this. I'm looking for this eight to seven count in the staff report.
Can you point me to the page that's on?
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I may, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That page in particular-- so it was a second. So I believe it was Mr. McKay sent that
separate form to us. And that ultimately came down to I believe in the report itself, it was page--

DEBRA JOHNSON: It's page 162, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm struggling tonight with page numbers. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I'm trying to get to page 162.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's the supplemental questionnaire that was disseminated. It's number three. It says
"committee chairs."
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. Got it. OK. I just wanted to be pointed in the right place. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Now everybody that's following along can also know where we are referring to.
Director Tisdale, do you need to speak to this amendment? Please, you have the floor. Director Buzek,
you're finished for now? Your hand's still up. Go to your room. Put your hand down. Director Tisdale, you
have the floor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did want to address one thing that was
mentioned by Director Cook in the discussion on this and the comment that, well, it's eight to seven, and I
would be happy to flip over and make it the other way around. Recall that this is a 10 vote requirement.
These are amendments to the bylaws. The bylaws require 10 votes in favor of a change. The bylaws set
forth how committees are designated. And the fact is that the Chair currently has the power to designate
Chair and Vice Chair. So it still will require.
And I don't have any opposition to the question going forward. I personally am opposed to the
amendment. I prefer to have the way that we've got it stated, which is that the Executive Committee shall
nominate, and the Board as a full Board shall ratify and affirm that selection. But in any event, however
we go forward, these are all bylaw amendments. And it's 10 votes that are required in order to make the
change. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Sorry, Director Cook. You're only one person. You can't
[INAUDIBLE].
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Tisdale-- Dishell. Who is that? Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE]. It's Dishell. And this is a question for council perhaps, which is that from
a technical matter, these amendments are actually not amendments to the bylaws. They're an
amendment to an action that would be to the bylaws. And therefore, I believe that they actually only need

a simple majority. But the action as a whole would be a [INAUDIBLE] vote to actually make a change to
the bylaws. The rest of these are just simple majority. Is that because they're really-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Miss Snyder, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thanks for that opportunity to clarify. Yes, the action that the Board is taking
tonight is to agreeing to come to consensus on potential changes to the bylaws. So we will take whatever
the Board does tonight. And I will work with staff to prepare amendments to the bylaws. And then the
Board will review those. And Director Tisdale is right. Those will require a 10 Director vote. But this
evening, we don't need a 10 Director vote on each one of these items.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Miss Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, everybody take a big breath. Director Whitmore is in the running for patience now.
You have the floor, sir.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No problem, Madam Chair. Good discussion. I just am inclined to agree with
Director Tisdale. I still have a better comfort level with the Executive Committee with this task than the
suggested amendment. I have no problem with it moving forward. But I haven't had enough time to digest
that little switcheroo there. So I would have to be a no for tonight on the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Cook, you're up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. General Counsel Snyder, we talked earlier not about this item. But it was my
impression that not all of these pieces did need to go into the-- you had even said this doesn't have to go
into the bylaws. Are there pieces of the action we're taking tonight that do and don't [INAUDIBLE] there's
kitty-- need to be in the bylaws? Because truthfully, I had switched based upon the assumption that the
method of choice didn't have to be in the bylaws. So please clarify.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Miss Snyder. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Director Cook. So what we're trying to accomplish tonight is to get some
consensus on how to move forward with how the Board is going to change the committee structure. We're
going to have another step of how the bylaws are actually amended. So the Board doesn't need to decide
tonight exactly which pieces need to go into the bylaws. And I do think that there's going to be some

discretion there. Certainly the Board could put every single detail about rainy nights on a Tuesday. And
you could put all kinds of details in the bylaws, but it doesn't mean the Board necessarily should.
So the objective this evening is to get some consensus, and then we will have a conversation about
which things get memorialized in the bylaws. And keep in mind it cuts both ways. It's good to have certain
things in the bylaws so it's very clear. But you also don't want to create unnecessary restrictions that as
you spend a couple of months, you realize a few little things need to be tinkered with and tweaked. So I
guess that's a long way to say that we will have to determine or the Board will have to determine what
level of detail you actually want to put in the bylaws. But the objective this evening is to get some
consensus around these general these general paths forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So these particular pieces that we've talked about having flexibility, whether it's
Tuesday and Wednesday, for example, or whether we have public comment that includes the prior
month, or this one could be something the Board says, well, we're not going to put that in the bylaws to
begin with. Is that true?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think the more substantive and the less kind of clerical or granular, that's the way
you're going to want to look at it. The more substantive where you're really defining the roles and
responsibilities of either the officers or the various committees, you want to memorialize those in the
bylaws. But some of the more administrative aspects don't really-- I wouldn't recommend including those
in the bylaws.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Cook, you ready to stand down for a moment?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis, you're up.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I just wanted to let Director Bouquet know that I support this. And I think it's a great
opportunity for us to really model what it looks like to decentralize decision making. And I see an
opportunity in the Chair and Vice Chairs being elected by the body in which they'll be working with as a
benefit, that they would essentially be determined by their peers as opposed to the Executive Committee.
And so I do support this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Bouquet, you are next in line.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Lewis. I just want to state just for the
record to clarify. So going off of Dr. Whitmore's comment of, oh, have we seen this before, so this is on
packet page 162. Basically, it came down to option A or option B. And it was a vote of eight in favor of
option B and seven in favor of option A.
The option A basically states the members of each committee will select the committee's Chair and Vice
Chair during the committee's first meeting each year. Committee members may nominate themselves or
others for Chair and Vice Chair positions. So that's really what I'm looking for in this amendment. And I do
want to point out too our current Chair of this Board did vote in favor of option A, which I think is
interesting because she is in the Executive Committee. So I just wanted to point it out there. If anyone
does need more reference like visual reference, it is bottom of packet page 162.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Rivera-Malpiede-- woo! [GIBBERISH].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did vote in favor of this because I do think that
the Chairs and the Vice Chairs should be selected by their committee members. I think they need to
determine what the leadership should be in their specific committees as they're looking at a body of work
that they need to move forward for the good of the district. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. OK. I'm calling. How do you say it, Director Tisdale? Call the
question? I'm calling the question. So now we are going to vote on the amendment that Director Bouquet
has put forward. Director Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your hand is still up. OK. Are there any no votes on this
amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, I'd like to call for a roll call vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I can do that. I know how to do that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Seven to eight.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We'll just go right down the list. Director Bouquet, you're first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Victor Broom, I think you're second.
BOB BROOM: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin, I think you're next. I'm doing this from memory here. So bear with me. If
I skip you-BOBBY DISHELL: Actually, you skipped Buzek.

KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah. Well, of course. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Director Catlin.
BOBBY DISHELL: No
KATE WILLIAMS: I think Director Dishell is next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Cook is next, but I'm a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'll go back to Cook. You guys got to help me out here. I'm doing this and writing at
the same time. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: A, B, C, D, E, F, G. Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You forgot Davidson. [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah. That's good. You vote first, I'll come back to him. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, you want me to vote? Yeah. Hmm. I'm a no.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: C, D, E, F, G. Guissinger.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis, what's your vote?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. This is really fun to do.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, would you like me to go through the rest of the list?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're a no. I don't have to go in alphabetical order. Director Whitmore.

TROY L. WHITMORE: I probably could be persuaded, Director Bouquet. But tonight, I'm a no.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Sorry. No.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Williams. I'm a yes. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: How many do I have there, Miss McManus?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Again, there's one more yes. This is-KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, Director Sloan. Thank you. You're a yes. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15. Now I get two brownie points. OK. Now we're [INAUDIBLE] at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 yeses is my count
and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 nos. The amendment passes. There are no abstentions. There are seven no's. The
no votes are Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Guissinger, Rosenthal, Whitmore, and Tisdale. Everybody else is a
yes vote. That amendment passes. Oh, boy. I'm telling you, I'm just trucking up the points here. OK. Now
we are back to the original recommended action. Does anybody else have an amendment that they want
to make?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I do, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Director Rosenthal. What's your amendment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Well, while we are on the concept of allowing more Board members to speak in
serious and important matters, as the Board members know, some of my concerns regarding the number
of officers that we elect and their titles. I believe that on number three, for Executive Committee should
only be Chair Vice Chair. And if we combine Secretary Treasurer and don't have a second Vice Chair
anymore, then what'll happen is then we can have two Board members who are selected by the body to
serve. It could be six month term, one year term. And then that way, regular members will have a chance
to serve. Let's just say I prefer six months.
And that way, you will have four members who will be able to serve on the Executive Committee who are
not officers because right now, it's all officers. And I think this will open up more opportunity for more
members of the body. So I propose an amendment that reads "the Executive Committee shall consist of
five officers including the Chair, Vice Chair, and Secretary/Treasurer and two members who are selected
by the body for six month terms for the two members and one year term for the three officers."
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Do I hear someone who wants to put that movement forward, that amendment?

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm happy to support it, but I just have a few questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: We'll get to the questions after we get a movement and a second. I'm trying to keep us
moving here. Do you want to move on it, Director Lewis? That'd be great. Yeah?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'll move on it for the sake of discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. And do we have a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Sloan. We are now open to discussion. Director Lewis, I'm
coming back to you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Right now? Go? OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. [LAUGHS] I just want to better
understand the terms, the six months versus the one year. Can you just repeat that for me?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. And thank you. Oh. May I speak? Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you,
Director Lewis, for seconding. So the concept being if we make it every six months, then we'll have two
members of the Executive Committee who are elected every six months. That would allow for four
members at any given year to serve on the Executive Committee who are not officers, who are not Chairs
of committees, who are not Vice Chairs of committees. They could be, I suppose. But that way, it would
be anybody who garners the support of a majority of members to serve.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. And I wonder if I might offer a friendly amendment to your
amendment? And the reason I ask is because I think about six months. And you might be coming into the
middle of a project or into the middle of discussion, and you may not have the background to be able to
thoughtfully or thoroughly participate in that discussion. And so I wonder if instead of six months, all three
are just a year. Would you be open to that? And of course, you think about it, and then you can hear the
rest of the discussion.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I appreciate that. And it's two, by the way. It's my amendment is for the three
officers who serve a year. They're elected the same as we always do, Chair, Vice Chair,
Secretary/Treasurer. And then there will be two seats that will be every six months. And from having
served on the Executive Committee, I can't say that there's anything that's so necessarily burning that it
would be so critical like, oh, my God, we need continuity, that a six month will be disruptive. I don't sense
that at all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, you good? OK. Director Catlin, you're up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. So effectively, what you're doing-- and I always say titles are
cheap-- is that you're taking away the second Vice Chair and combining the Secretary/Treasurer. So you
have three quote "officers." But all five officers are currently voted on by the entire Board anyway. And so
you're just replacing two for shorter term for two that are no longer on the Board.

So it's really the same thing, only it requires another election at the midyear for those two Board members
that are not quote "officers" even though they've been elected just in the same fashion that the previous
five were elected. So I'm just making a point that it seems like we're creating one more Board-wide
election for those two at large positions, which really by the way of how we've done it in the past, they're
all at large positions. That's all I wanted to say.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. OK. I'm going to go on down the line. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a question. Are the officers enumerated in the
bylaws, or are they in the state statute?
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Madam Chair, if I may. Thank you for that question, Director Broom. I was just
looking at the statute. And the statute does provide that the Board may elect one Director as Chairman of
the Board, another Director as Chair pro tem, which I think we've taken as the Vice Chair, and to appoint
one or more persons as Secretary and Treasurer of the Board. So I think that the actual statute would
allow this proposed amendment.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin, did you have more? OK. Director Broom, you finished?
BOB BROOM: Everything except taking my hand down.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for bringing this
amendment. It's been a great discussion. I think with combining the government relations role, I tend to
be more in favor of the one year just because of the way of the state legislative session working and not
want it and wanting to make sure that people can work with people for the first half as well as the second
half to do any follow up on committees or things of that nature that'd be during outside a legislative
session. So Director Williams, buckle your seat belt. I have an amendment to the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Hanging in there. Go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Unless General Counsel Snyder tells me I can't do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss Snyder, is it possible since we have not taken a vote that we could reword this
amendment?
MELANIE SNYDER: No. If both the movement and the seconder want to agree to withdrawal, we could
have a new, fresh fourth motion to amend.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I agree.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis? OK. Director Dishell? What's your revised amendment?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I believe it's my amendment. But I will accept his proposal and suggestion.
BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. Director Rosenthal, I did not keep as good track as you did of the actual
language. Would you mind reading it out for-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. So as revised, section number three, Executive Committee. The Executive
Committee will consist of five officers, although actually we probably shouldn't say officers. It should say
five members including the Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary/Treasurer, and two members. The process for
nomination and selection of members will mirror current practices and will serve for a term of one year.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis, do you want to move on it again?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We'll take you as the movement. Director Sloan, would you like to be the second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure, to get it on the floor.
OK. Now we have discussion. Anybody want to speak to the amendment amendment of the amendment
of the amendment? No. OK. Hearing nothing and ask for a vote. Are there any no votes? Director
Guissinger? (SINGING) I can't hear you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Could you just read it again, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you, Director Guissinger. So Executive Committee. So the Executive
Committee shall consist of five members including the Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary/Treasurer, and two
members selected from the body period. The process for nomination and selection of members will mirror
current recent practices and will serve for a term of one year.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger, you good?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just one quick comment. That really is the same as what we have now except the
change of titles. Is that correct? I guess I'm not sure where that takes us. But that's a common thing.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're all kind of nodding. I see a bunch of heads nodding here. So there seems to be--

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, and it really does. But at the same token, let's have positions that actually
reflect something where it makes sense. I mean, I get approached in public like, ooh, you have access to
the money. You're treasurer. No, no. I don't have access to any money, I mean, except for the budget,
which hopefully-- I know staff is like, dude, when are we going to start talking about the 2022 budget
actually something really as important as what we're doing? So I get that. But it would be nice to have
proper types, which are important.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We're going to take a vote on this amended amendment. Are there any no votes?
VINCE BUZEK: No. Roll call.
KATE WILLIAMS: Got to make-- OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do a roll call.
KATE WILLIAMS: I can do it. I can do it. Or I guess, Miss McManus, if you would like to call the roll for
this vote, please. Now she's gone.
BARBARA MCMANUS: [INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, have at it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: [LAUGHS] Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have 13 nos-- 12 nos and 3 yeses. So it fails.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. And to be short, could you tell us who the yeses were, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Director Lewis, Director Rosenthal, and Director Dishell.
KATE WILLIAMS: Everybody else would be a no for the record. OK, that amendment fails. We come back
to the original recommended action. Do I need to read it again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. The recommended action says, "for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to its
committee structure in order to optimize the number of members assigned to each committee, encourage
full and fruitful debate by decentralizing decision making, leverage members' relevant experience, and
promote meeting efficiencies." Let's see. Way back when, I think-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: As amended, it reads, "in accordance with the following discussion."
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, thank you. I'm writing that down. Thank you. "With the following." OK. It seems to
me that sometime back in 2019, Chair Rivera-Malpiede was the original mover, and Director Rosenthal
was the second. Oh, Director Sloan, I'm sorry. You have your hand up.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Did you say in 2019? [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I did. I was making a joke.
MARJORIE: I do have my hand up on the full motion discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So since we already have a mover and a second on this, unless-- the Board
Office, can you help me? I believe just for the record before we go to discussion that the movement was
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and the second was Director Rosenthal. Is that correct? Oh, no. The original was
Director Dishell, and the second was Chair. I got it. Big note here says original. OK. Now we will go back
to discussion on the original recommended action. Director Sloan.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I am in full accord with the intent of this. I would just like to point out that the
discussion this evening shows the inadequacy of the survey form of taking the temperature of the group.
This is a very collaborative Board. And people come to agreement when they're discussing it. And when
you just have a yes or no or a five or seven, you don't get the advantage of the discussion and
agreement. It could be that there's actually no conflict between the choices that you can come to the
middle.
So I know in this instance, there was certainly time pressure to get it completed before our first meeting in
January. But I would like to discourage the survey procedure as being a normal way we operate. That's it.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And way back in 2019, I was going to thank the people, but I've
forgotten who they were. So in any event, they know who they are. Thanks for all your hard work.
And I also want to point out that I agree with Director Sloan. I'm not a big fan of that survey thing. But the
discussion we had here tonight was good. And the fact that we don't always agree on everything, it's fine.

If we all agreed on everything, we'd only need one of us. I keep saying it. We'd only need one of us.
[LAUGHS] And it was good discussion. No name calling, no insults. It was great. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I concur. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I concur. And to Director Sloan's point, I 100% agree.
And folks might recall one of the requests I had is that we were having such a good discussion when this
came that it was announced that we have a work study or a work session or something so that we could
really hash out the details as a Board and really build consensus and understanding. And as folks-- for
example, Director Dishell-- was able to provide the logic behind the Tuesday Wednesday meetings, I was
originally opposed to that. But with that discussion, it really did move me. And so I do appreciate the
opportunities in which we can have that more readily.
I will just make an observation around the meeting cadence. In the survey, there were 10 responses for
Tuesdays versus the Tuesday Wednesdays. And so when we talk about building consensus, I think
there's an opportunity for us to maybe potentially do a better job of-- and I know, Director Cook, I respect
your Amendment, but it is in conflict with what Board members had decided via the anonymous survey.
And so I just wanted to point that out.
I had a few inquiries about the committee composition and just a number of things. And so I'll start with
the committee composition. [CLEARS THROAT] Under that bullet, it says, "standing committees will be
composed of between five and seven members as determined by the Executive Committee," which I
understand that's changed. But I'm just curious as to what would make a committee five members versus
what would make a committee seven members?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure who is going to address that. Director Tisdale or Director Cook I believe.
SHELLEY COOK: I could provide one perspective on it. And it has to do with the numbers not working
out. If you wanted to strictly prohibit people from serving on more than one committee, then having a fixed
number of five would be doable. But when I developed the little templates to show how 15 members can
map into 4 committees, the only way it would work out really just from a practical standpoint is if you add
5 to 7 and giving a little bit of flexibility. And that made sense in many ways because it allowed you to
tailor the current year's committees to both interest expressed.
I mean, a lot of the folks responding indicated that they hoped the Executive Committee would allocate
the spots on the committee according to what the interests were, how many people expressed an
interest. But it also is a chance to say, OK, this is a critical field this year because we have a ballot issue
or whatever it is, and then to tailor the composition or at least the numbers of the committee to that piece.
So that's where I came from on recommending for my part for five to seven. I can't speak for others.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Just to clarify, are we saying five to seven members for each committee, or are we
saying five and seven? Because five and seven is currently how it reads versus five to seven.

SHELLEY COOK: I believe the intent is an odd number, but I don't think it strictly prohibits. I'd ask
Counsel based upon the wording. I don't think it strictly prohibits six. But generally, I think I've understood
it to mean five or seven so that we had an odd number. But General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. So the Board could certainly adopt and say five, six, or seven. It's really up to
the Board. But yes, having an odd number of committee members is helpful in order to avoid tie votes.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. That's helpful. And so should we expect that when this comes back to
the Board by way of a change in the bylaws that that will be sift out, that we will know which committees
are expected to have five members and what committees are expected to have seven?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I suppose to the extent stuff gets fleshed out either through some governance manual
or in the bylaws, yeah, we'll have to have those pieces more firmly identified or nailed down. That's my
guess.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'll accept it and hope that that's the case. One of the things along the same lines
with the five to seven-- and I think with five, this might make a bigger difference than seven-- is currently
as it stands, if Board Directors want to bring forth a recommended action that requires three Directors to
do so, and if we're talking about committees of five and/or seven, I wonder if there's an opportunity for us
to have some discussion about changing that part in the bylaws to one Director or two Directors versus
three Directors if we are moving from smaller committees.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, Director Tisdale, you both have your hands up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll take that as an invitation for me to speak.
KATE WILLIAMS: It is.
DOUG TISDALE: The notion of three Directors initiating an action is not impacted by the size of the
committees. Right now, the rule is in order to initiate an action, it takes three. And that's because, as I
understand it in terms of how this originally got formulated, to avoid a Director or even two Directors
saying, well, we really want to talk about this. And there's just no general level of support for it. Having the
number three was thought to be a way of filtering out purely personal agenda items that people might
have.
The number of people on the committee is irrelevant to that process because a Board initiated action still
must go through the appropriate committee and then go to the full Board, absent exigent circumstances

that are not relevant to this discussion here. The point being that three people coming together saying,
hey, we want to talk about this merits attention. But it has nothing to do with the size of the committee.
One person coming forward or even arguably two, I submit, could take a lot of time on this Board on an
item where you end up getting two yes votes and 13 no votes. So there's really nothing implicated by this
action relative to that process. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Dr. Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, if I might respond. Director Tisdale, I think that presupposes that if we, for
example, have a committee of five, that all three of the members would belong to that committee that
would bring a recommended action forward. And that's not necessarily the case.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: No, it doesn't.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm still talking. Point of order. I'm still talking. Thank you. The reason I bring this up
is because if you have five Directors on a committee, and you have three Directors that bring forth a
recommended action, there's a potential that only one of those Directors actually serve on that committee,
and the other three just support the recommended action that that Board Director is bringing forward, thus
would have the opportunity to sign on to that. That's one scenario.
Another scenario is if you have three Directors who all belong on that committee, that automatically
passes if it's five because you only need three votes to get anything out of the committee. And so this is
the reason that I'm bringing it up because at least what I understood, Director Tisdale, is that the reason
that this is in place is so that you don't have one Director or two Directors bringing forth a recommended
action. But that's exactly what could potentially happen if you have three Directors that bring forth a
recommended action, and only one of them are on the committee. Thus it would be one for a Director on
that committee bringing that forward, that recommended action, because the other two could not vote
within that committee because they aren't committee members.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I believe I follow the point. I think the scenario number one
that you propose is if there are three members who serve on a committee, and it's a five member
committee, by definition, that item is going to pass through the committee. The answer is, yes, I guess
that's right, and it comes before the full Board because the other discussion has been ignored tonight that
we had previously, which is recall.
Not being on a committee doesn't mean you don't talk about the item. The full Board retains all of its
power. None of that power is surrendered by virtue of this committee restructuring. That's still there. So
that's not going to be, I submit, a problem. If three people bring an item forward, and they really want to

see it, and they're on a committee, it passes, comes to the full Board, and then it stands the test of 15,
can you get eight votes total? And we'll have to see what happens.
But I'm not sure I'm following the other example that you postulate, which is if I have one person out of a
group of three who's on the committee, and the three people bring the item forward, the one person votes
for it, but then four people vote against it. That's not fair. It didn't get a fair hearing. I think that
presupposes that the process simply doesn't work. And I think the process actually does work.
So I'm not overly concerned. I have sensitivity to what you expressed. But I'm not overly concerned that
the result that you propose, which is that somehow good ideas will get killed, is going to happen. So it's
something to consider. But I do recognize the sensitivity that you have to the issue. And I appreciate that.
But I don't see that that rule needs to be a part of this discussion or that that rule itself even separately
should be changed. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. And I appreciate that you are not
concerned. And it does bring me concern. And it is in conflict with what you shared earlier in the
discussion for the reason that that rule exists to begin with it so that, one, and I quote, where two
Directors do not bring their agendas forward. And what I am sharing is that if you have a committee of
five, and only one Director serves on that committee, and two other Directors bring forth a recommended
action within that committee, it's doing exactly what you said it was designed not to do, which is allowing a
single Director on that committee to bring their agendas forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Respectfully, I think we simply differ on that analysis.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'll get back in the queue.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] OK. Thank you, ma'am. All right. Director Dishell, you're up.
BOBBY DISHELL: I have a question. Audit is near and dear to my heart. I mean that very genuinely. I
really care about audit. I think it's really important and critical to a Board function. The Audit Committee, I
am looking at the 2017 standards that were referenced. I believe those are the most recent standards.
And those reference the fact that Board and Audit Committee within the standards and the definition of
Board are used interchangeably.
And so I am all for allowing a third party audit expert to tell us what. I just want to make sure that we're not
going to be looking to these standards for some delineation of exactly what the Board should look like
unless there's a citation-- maybe Director Tisdale has it-- that delineates what the Audit Committee should
look like.

KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure who's going to answer that. Do we need Miss Snyder on this or Director
Cook, Director Tisdale? I think you-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss Johnson, I would be thrilled.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to address. So recognizing that we
have retained a third party auditing consultant to provide us with the best path forward that's
encapsulated in the scope of work, which will be addressed by Director Catlin as the Chair of the Finance
Committee in the next portion about where we are, I just wanted to preface that by saying that currently
as it stands-- well, not as it stands because you all adopted an internal audit charter. But more specifically
speaking, we're looking at a subject matter expert to advise us because this is separate from this
discussion holistically because we were not adhering to the standards as called out by the Colorado State
auditor as well as reconfirmed by the APTA peer review. So this is a stand alone. And I believe this will be
taken up by all of you in your capacity as the Board once we've received those recommendations from
the third party of which we contracted with.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Miss Johnson. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I am satisfied. I just wanted to make sure I wasn't missing some standard in there that
says this is what it should look like. So I'm all for it. Sounds great. Just [INAUDIBLE] quick.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Going back to the previous discussion, there's two ways as I
understand it to get something before the Board. One is to go through a standing committee and get an
affirmative vote. The second is for three Board members to bring it directly to the Board without going
through a committee. Isn't that correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's my understanding as well. I think this would be Miss Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You could also-- I'm sorry. Just to clarify, you can also as it's written currently can
bring an action item forward as the Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you. So there's three ways. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: OK. But then maybe I didn't understand what that previous discussion was about, how
somebody was being disenfranchised.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, Director Lewis graciously agreed to step to the back of the pack. So if you
can wait a little bit, we could come back to that maybe? Or do we want to do that now?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm happy to address it. My intention wasn't to categorize. And I've heard a number
of different terms both used by Director Tisdale and Broom that an individual is being disenfranchised or
that the process is unfair, none of the language that I actually used in my questioning in my inquiry. My
inquiry was about what the stated purpose was and if at least what Director Tisdale had stated was
actually what was happening. And it sounds like it's not.
And essentially, you would need three-- my concern is that it's going to encourage Directors to attend
every single committee because you would need three Directors to be able to bring something forward.
And at least my understanding is that the hope is that we discourage Directors from attending every
single committee, which is the purpose of moving to smaller committees and having these committees on
different nights. And so it was an inquiry. It wasn't about anyone being treated unfairly. It wasn't about
anyone being disenfranchised, but an inquiry about the process and what that means for smaller
committees and our intent to be more effective.
KATE WILLIAMS: To my understanding-- let me repeat. Director Broom, would you like to repeat your
statement for us all?
BOB BROOM: No. I was just trying to point out that there was ways to get things before the Board without
going through the committee if you had to. But obviously, the best thing to do if you want to get something
done is to go through the committee. But if you strikeout at the committee, and you still have really strong
feelings, and you have two other people that feel the same way, because if you're only going to have five
people on the committee, they can't speak for the entire Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: So three Directors can bring a resolution directly to the entire Board. Miss Snyder, is
that correct? Have I spoken correctly? Oh, another one. Mouth moving, no sound.
MELANIE SNYDER: Sorry about that. I do want to take a look straight at the bylaws because I think that it
still has to go through committee. If you could just give me a moment.
KATE WILLIAMS: We absolutely can do that. And Director Lewis pointed out that, in fact, the Chair can
bring something without anybody else directly to the Board. So we are asking are there three methods to
bring an item to the Board, one being from committee, one being from the Chair, and the third one being
three Directors proposing a resolution that could be presented directly to the Board. Have I stated that
correctly, everybody?
OK. Just leave me out here to hang out to dry. It's OK. So that's what we are waiting for. We're waiting for
our corporate attorney to answer that. Does anybody have another point while we give her a chance to
look that up?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I know that this is probably out of left field. But we have been
meeting for over three hours solid. I'm wondering if while our General Counsel is looking this up if we
could take a five minute break so that folks can go do what they need to do?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm 100% in favor of that. And as the Chair of this committee, I am calling a five minute
recess. I'm not taking anybody else's opinion. It is 8:40, and we'll be back here at 8:45. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I may have to take a little longer break because I have to run upstairs to
tend to the family. [LAUGHS] Sorry about that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK.

OK. I'm giving everybody a one-minute warning.
Director Bouquet, can you whistle to get everybody's attention? I can't.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I can do just a small, little whistle.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all [WHISTLES] I'm good for too.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right. I'm calling this meeting back to order, please, for those who can make it. We
are still having discussion on the original recommended action, Director Dishell's movement. And Chair
Rivera-Malpiede is the second. Waiting to see if anybody has any further points to bring down. And then
I'm going to ask the Court Office to take a vote. I'm happy to have assistance at this point in time. Director
Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I think we were going to have Melanie provide the language. And then I had one
more question. So you can tell me which order you'd like to take those in.
KATE WILLIAMS: Why don't we ask Miss Snyder if she's ready first and just kind of fill in the-MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, thank you, Madam Chair. You know what? If I could just get one moment, I
need to close my door. They've just started vacuuming here at the office.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sure. That's fine. Director Lewis, go ahead with your question.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, because it's actually a question that Melanie doesn't have to be around
for. Within our packet for public comment, number nine, it says the Board Office will establish a process to

allow individuals to submit comments in advance, and any comments received will be incorporated into
the public record of the appropriate meeting. I was curious as to if this process is designed-- and if not,
that's fine-- if this will be available to us before we take a final vote?
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe Miss McManus would be the appropriate person to speak to that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So there will not be anything in place. This is something that the Board Office
would research along with staff and bring forward a recommendation for the Board to make a decision on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: To clarify, you will bring that forward with this item or as a separate item?
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: As a separate item.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you. That's sufficient. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. You're welcome. And Miss Snyder, we are waiting on you.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'm in article 5 section 3 of the bylaws right now.
And that is subsection B that talks about the three different ways that items can be added to the agenda.
The first is that an agenda item needs to go through normally a standing committee, then the Executive
Committee, and then to the full Board. That's our normal procedure.
The second option is if three Directors want to add an agenda item, they need to provide written
notification in advance to the Chair and the Executive Manager of the Board. That is due by noon on the
Wednesday prior to the Tuesday night Board meeting. Then my understanding-- and I'll defer to Barbara
McManus on the operational side of this. But my understanding is that the Executive Manager and the
Chair would then confer. And then the bylaws talk about how then typically, the process would be that the
three Director initiated action would still go first to a standing committee and then to the Board. So that's
what the bylaws call for.
There's an exception there to that noon deadline the Wednesday before when we're talking about
proposed amendments to the bylaws. So under article 15, those have to be provided by 10 days in
advance of the Board meeting. And then the third option is if an item of an emergency nature arises after
the meeting of the Executive Committee, then the Chair at her discretion or his discretion can place that
on the agenda. So those are the three options.
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss McManus, do you have anything to add to that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. That's correct.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I was aware of that. That's essentially what I said. [LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Does anybody else have any comments on the information that we were just
given?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I would just ask that we consider as we are moving this document forward a
change in our bylaws. Instead of having two Directors that would bring an action forward that based on
the smaller committees that we consider having less Directors that would need to contribute to bring an
action forward specifically if we have committees with five Board members. I'm less concerned about the
seven because I think that probably makes sense. But with five committee members, I do have some
concerns. I'm not going to put an amendment on the table. I know you all are tired. And we still have
another meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I believe it's three Directors and not two at any point in time with that. But that's
OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: That was my recommendation. My recommendation was to move from the three to
the two. That's what you [INAUDIBLE].
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Got it. OK. All right. We are back to the original recommended action including
the coda at the end in accordance, et cetera. Anybody else have comments or discussion on that?
Seeing no hands at the moment, Miss McManus, would you call the roll for the vote?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have unanimous consent.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Miss McManus. Are there any other matters to come before this committee
this evening?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Miss Johnson. Absolutely.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I just wanted to follow up on the question that was posed by Director Buzek in
relationship to how much money had been expended on US 36. I do have the response to that, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So the US 36 express lane project was $312 million. It included RTD, CDOT,
and DRCOG, and the Colorado Bridge Enterprise. And RTD contributed $120 million toward the $312
million.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much for that information. That was the number I thought it was. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. Other matters again? OK. Ah, I see Director Davidson's hand.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I just wanted to say thank you to Chair Williams. Thank you. Long haul.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good job, everybody. Great discussion. I am inclined to agree with everybody. So our
next meeting date of this committee, as it stands today, will be November 9, 2021. We will continue to
meet on Zoom at 5:30. You can go to the Board website to get the information. And this meeting is
adjourned at 8:54. I'm going to note that we have another committee meeting following. I'm going to ask if
anybody wants to take another break, or do we want to just roll right on?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I would ask that we take a five-minute break just so that the
new committee Chair can get in line with what her agenda to move forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm good with that. Director Catlin, yes. You good?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So we will convene at 9 o'clock.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sharp. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

