Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 16,
2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

October 17, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
October 16, 2012.

Board Members
Present:
Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.
Board Member
Absent:

Directors Cohen, James, Malpiede and McMullen were absent

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Martell Dyles, Jane Donovan,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Tony
McCaulay, Patrick McLaughlin, Brenden Morgan, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas

Others Present:

Ferd Belz, Josh Benningnheff, Jennifer Brandeberry, Sherman
Hamilton, David Hollis, Terry Kraser, David Lewis, Bill Moon, Mike
Newman, Jacob Riger, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Jason
Simmons, Karen Stuart, Dee Wisor
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Recommended Action
Authorization to Award the Construction Contract for the Pine Junction park-n-Ride
(pnR) Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a construction contract with Symmetry Builders Inc., in the
amount of $1,279,875.68 for the construction of the Pine Junction park-n-Ride
Relocation Project. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) will provide
$960,000 of Funding Advancement for Surface Transportation and Economic Recovery
(FASTER) funds for this project. RTD will provide the remainder of the funding for this
project.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 16,
2012
Page 2 of 4

Discussion:

Cory Granrud provided the background information about the project.
RTD operates the pnR at the intersection of US 285 and Pine Valley.
They propose relocating the pnR to 76 Mount Evans Blvd. They already
have the approval from Jefferson County but due to lack of funding they
could not move forward with the construction until now since all funding
is secured. They received four bids in response to the RFP. The project
will provide 90 parking spaces plus a turnaround. Today they are using
40-45 spaces in the existing pnR. There will be a driver’s relief station
as well as all the typical pnR elements such as shelters, benches,
lighting, etc. They are sharing the turnaround with Black Hill Stage Lines
that comes from Gunnison into Denver. This is one of the conditions set
forth in the grant from CDOT. The contractor has agreed to meet the
SBE requirements.
Director Daly asked what the name of the builder was. Cory responded
Symmetry Builders Inc and added that they have agreed to self-perform
100% on the SBE contract.
Director Tayer expressed appreciation to Bruce Daly for championing this
project.
Director Gore asked what the ridership/per day from those 40-45 parking
spaces. Cory stated that in terms of passengers would be the same,
around 40-45.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the October 23, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Walker seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 11
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore,
Hoy, Kemp, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Directors Cohen, James,
Malpiede and McMullen were
absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 16,
2012
Page 3 of 4

II. Updates
Denver Union Station USA (No Back Up)
Marla stated that the update is primarily on the changes in the physical development of
the building as a result of the National Park Service’s requirements. Bill Moon and the
USA Team presented on the changes that have been generated after discussions with
the National Park Service (NPS) and Landmarks Preservation Commission (LPC). They
received approval from the NPS and have submitted the revised package to them in
keeping with their specific requirements. They expect the formal written approval
within the next week to 10 days. They are moving at full speed with the architects,
lawyers and RTD staff. They have another meeting scheduled for Friday with the staff
to finalize the lease and financing. They expect to have everything in place by mid
November and will present it to the Board for final approval. They expect to be able to
start the abatement and demolition in December. They plan to move rapidly and are
working with RTD staff on the schedule. Staff has been excellent and very supportive.
Marla clarified that if they get everything done in November they will be back in
December.
Jim has been handling the interface with the NPS. They have scaled the project down
in order to pay respect to some of the historic features of the building. Initially they
were planning 127 guest rooms; however due to the NPS requirements they now have
110. They presented some of the modifications that the NPS has given their consent
on. They still have to present to the LPC for final approval within the City and County
of Denver. They have added dormers to the top of the building, as well as a couple of
dormers in the front side. Some of them are existing dormers. Another specification
from the NPS is one window per room. The new dormers are very similar to the
existing ones. On the back, they will also add 5 new dormers. This is similar in the
north and south wings. There are no changes in the ground floor. They were asking to
make some cuts in the existing granite to have access into the Terminal Bar and patio
space, but the NPS and the LPC did not agree. The LPC approved all the required
openings to facilitate the Amtrak facility. That is proceeding and will start earlier than
the hotel. On the mezzanine level, they lost some guest rooms in order to
accommodate the mezzanine. The 2nd floor or 3rd floor mid level of guest rooms
remains unchanged. On top floor the guest rooms are illuminated by the new dormers.
The room plan shows the same expansion of dormers. They tried to incorporate some
sun through skylights in the roof. They have gone through details with the NPS in
order to do this. They have a very high level of interest from restaurants and expect to
have some restaurant on board by the time they open. The center section remains
unchanged due to the NPS not approving the opening. On the north facade, the NPS
rejected the original request so they have changed it back. This will be a great location
for the guests using the rooms and people using Amtrak and the RTD services such as
bus, rail, etc.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October 16,
2012
Page 4 of 4

They have placed some rooms in the attic and are working with the NPS on how these
rooms are executed. They have been flying back and forth from Washington DC in
order to make sure that everybody is happy with the final outcome.
Director Bagley thanked them for the presentation.
Director Tobiassen asked for clarification as to who specifically the NPS is. Jim
explained that the NPS administers the Secretary of Interior Standards for Historic
Rehabilitation. They are a division of the Federal Government - Department of the
Interior and administer the historic tax credits. The Secretary of Interior has 10
standards of historic rehabilitation that allows for adaptive reuse of certain historic
buildings as long as they are done in compliance with these 10 standards which have
to do with protecting the key historic components when additions are made and making
sure that they are complementary and carefully done with the existing building. They
are the same at Gateway to Rocky Mountain National Park except that they have this
role to administer the federal tax credits for historic preservation.
Director O’Boyle mentioned that he was not aware that the NPS took such an interest
on the interior of the building and asked if this is the norm. Bill explained it was the
entire building. Even though the Local Landmarks Preservation Commission mandates
deals only with the exteriors the NPS does care about the look inside. The NPS
received detailed photos and blueprints through the process.
Director Deadwyler asked how many of the 110 guest rooms have windows. The
Team response was all have windows, but some of them are limited in size. At least 85
have normal sized windows. Additionally in the attic space the rooms have smaller
windows but still get natural light as some of them get natural light from skylights.
III. Other Matters
There were no other matters.
IV. Next Meeting Date – November 13, 2012
V. Adjourn
Committee Chair Bagley adjourned the meeting at 5:54 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee Meeting.

