Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 2, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 2, 2010 at
5: 40 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen; Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Director Brohl, Director Cohen,
Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez,
Director Pulliam, Director Tayer, and Director Tobiassen.
Directors Bagley, Busck and Christopher.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jenny Barket, Rick Clarke, Jane Donovan, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Genevieve Hutchison, Marla Lien, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue,
John Perry, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, Dave Shelley,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta
Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Tom Ashburn - CAC
****

Call to Order

Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010
Page 2

I.

Recommended Actions:
North Metro Corridor – Release of Final Environmental Impact Statement
Bill Van Meter introduced this item to the board and mentioned that for each
meeting, there will be an update. Bill announced that Dave Shelley will be
retiring effective March 19, 2010.
Director Tayer requested a simple update on significant milestones for each
corridor be included as update items at future FasTracks Monitoring
Committee meetings.
Bill announced that Dave Shelley will be retiring effective March 19, 2010.
Mike Turner is back with RTD and he will pick up the reins on the planning
and environmental side.
Dave Shelley then proceeded to give a brief update via PowerPoint
presentation.
Key dates include:









Release FEIS to Public and Agencies – End of May
Public Hearings – June
Record of Decision – End of July
Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA) – In Progress
Design Build RFQ – Winter 2010
Design Build RFP – Early 2011 – Contingent on funding
Start Construction – 2010 – Contingent on funding
OPEN - 2016

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to release the North Metro Corridor
Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for public and agency
review. This is a critical step in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
process and provides the public and interested agencies with an opportunity
to review the document and provide comments.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
March 23, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010
Page 3
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed.

Authorization to Execute Agreements for Property Acquisition, Relocation and
Construction and Joint Corridor Operations with BNSF Railway Company
Marla Lien, General Counsel, advised the board that in the final board report
they receive, it will show that RTD will be moving 4 million of relocation
payments to the purchase and sale agreement.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into the following
agreements with the BNSF Railway Company:






a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for Acquisition of property
interests from DUS to approximately 71St Street in Westminster along
BNSF’s Front Range Subdivision (the DUS Corridor), along the BNSF
Golden Subdivision from approximately Sheridan to the end (the Gold
Corridor).
a Relocation and Construction Agreement (Construction Agreement)
for relocation and construction of BNSF facilities required to make the
acquired property interests available to RTD for its use on the Eagle P3 and other commuter rail projects
a Joint Corridor Use Agreement (JCUA) with the BNSF Railway
Company (BNSF) governing ongoing operations between the two
entities in the shared corridors.

It is recommended that the General Manager is authorized to acquire property
interests described in the PSA in the amount of $102,674,484; that he is
authorized to pay as contracted lump sum payments to BNSF $23 million for
relocation and construction of BNSF improvements between Denver Union
Station (DUS) and Pecos Streets, $9.8 million for relocation and construction
of improvements on the Gold Line between approximately Sheridan and Ward
Road, and $8.3 million for relocation and construction between Pecos and
approximately 71st streets. It is further recommended that (1) the amount of
$200,000 for title insurance, closing costs, escrow fees and other costs
incidental to execution of the PSA and (2) $4,000,000 for direct
reimbursement costs to BNSF for additional construction and relocation
expenses incidental to both BNSF relocation and RTD construction, plus a
contingency for delays, minor changes or other non-fixed expenses, be
budgeted authorized and appropriated, and that the General Manager is
authorized to make reasonable and necessary expenditures for all such items
within the amounts authorized. This would bring the total cost of the
agreements with BNSF to $147,974,484.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010
Page 4

Funding for the BNSF agreement is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for
FasTracks, and in the FasTracks financial plan approved by the Board of
Directors in February 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board authorize the following budget
transfers to fund the PSA, costs incidental to the execution of the PSA, direct
reimbursement costs, and the portion of the relocation payments due in
2010. This action will accelerate funding previously budgeted in 2011 into
2010 to match the terms of the final agreement, and will allocate the
budgeted funds to the correct FasTracks projects.
Northwest Rail: Increase by $5,320,613
Gold Line: Increase by $6,327,115
System Improvements: Reduce by $11,447,728
FasTracks Contingency Reserve: Reduce by $200,000
It is further recommended that the Board pass the attached resolution
authorizing execution of the Agreements, and agreeing to waive governmental
immunity, acquire insurance for and indemnify the BNSF for all claims for
injuries and damages to persons or property, including environmental liability,
for which BNSF would not incur liability but for their authorization of RTD’s
use of the right of way they currently own. A total of $125,874,484 is
appropriated through the current action. An additional $17,900,000 will be
appropriated in the 2010 Amended Budget to fully fund this transaction as
required by the Agreements.

II.

MOTION:

Director Tobiassen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
March 23, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed.

Updates


CAC
Tom Ashburn, CAC Co-Chair, gave the board a brief update. At the last CAC
meeting if February, they welcomed a new board member Ken Clausen. Tom
indicated that they received an update on the reorganization of
Communications Department and were pleased. At the March there will be a
presentation on 2009 TOD report. In April or May, the committee will take a
tour of the West Corridor. The next CAC meeting is March 24 at Blake
Street.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010
Page 5



Denver Union Station
Phil Washington reminded the board of a memo he previously provided them
regarding a communications plan – this item is part of that communication
plan. The goal is to make sure the board keeps informed of key components.
Marla Lien discussed the status of the TIFIA/RRIF loans. Marla also shared
that RTD was assigned 16.88 million in SB1 funds and RTD had a request to
assign grant to DUSPA – this is money that RTD was using only for DUS.
Rick Clark anticipates full notice to proceed soon – all partners need to have
agreements finalized. The issue RTD is watching is that RTD turns over DUS
facility to P3 contractor on May 1, 2014. DUS is on critical the path with
schedule – we are within schedule but there is not a lot of float. Jerry Nery
discussed construction work.



Quality of Life Report
Director McMullen commented on how nice the Quality of Life Report looks.
Genevieve Hutchison walked through this presentation with the board.



North Metro Corridor
This update was given by Dave Shelley prior to voting on the North Metro
Corridor – Release of Final Environmental Impact Statement action item
above.

III.

Next Meeting – April 6, 2010.

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
 C.R.S. 24-6-402 (3)(a) – Eagle P3 Procurement
At 7:05 p.m., Chair McMullen requested a motion to move into Executive Session.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made a motion to move
to Executive Session to discuss C.R.S 246-402.

SECOND:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed.

The Executive Session adjourned at approximately 9:00 p.m.

