2022-09-14
Performance Committee
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Chair Lewis, I believe we'll yield the floor to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just give me a few seconds here. I'm transitioning.
All right, thank you. Sorry about that. The Performance Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 1:41 Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings for the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interests of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. Please visit RTD-Denver.com to access meeting recordings and
unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during this afternoon's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
call on you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their
virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing 9.
To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press star 6. I would like to now call the role of the committee
members. Chair Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell. OK, maybe [INAUDIBLE]. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN:
SHONTEL LEWIS: And myself, Director Lewis. For the record, I see we also have Directors Guissinger,
Director Davidson, and Director Cook. If I missed any others, please let me know. I'm sorry. I can't see
you.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately-preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following
email address-- RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.

During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have 3 minutes to
speak. Do we have any speakers in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: This is Tai-Shrae. I do not see any hands raised.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you, Tai-Shrae. I appreciate it. With that, if there are no participants in the
queue, we will close the public comment period at this time.
So this afternoon, we have three discussion items on the agenda. And I will, actually, ask that Leah Riley,
our Chief Administration Officer, to present on our first item, which is the 2021, 2026 Strategic Plan
Performance Update.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you, Chair Lewis. Let me share my screen with you. Can someone acknowledge
they can see the screen?
DEBRA JOHNSON: The screen is visible. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you very much. All right, again, my name is Leah Riley. I'm the Chief Administrative
Officer for RTD, and I'm pleased to present to you today an update on the Performance of our Strategic
Plan.
So in today's presentation, I'm going to cover the quarterly scorecard for our Strategic Plan, the employee
survey that was conducted in May of 2022. I'll provide an update on the areas of opportunity that
spawned from the 2021 community and customer surveys. And these were also discussed during the
June 1 Performance Committee Meeting.
I'm also going to give a high-level overview of the community and customer surveys that are underway.
And I'll give an introduction to a performance dashboard that's being piloted across the country and close
us out with some next steps.
So let's begin with our quarterly scorecard. And this is found on pages 22 and 23 of the Strategic Plan.
And this is a high-level roll-up of metrics that represent most of the Agency's work. And the quarterly
scorecard is broken into four sections that align with the plan's strategic priorities.
The first is community value, which is defined as "RTD strives to be a strong community partner providing
value to customers, as well as to the broader Denver Metro region, while sustaining planet Earth." Seven
of the eight metrics that are associated with community value are based on a community survey. The
results of the 2021 survey serve as our baseline, and they are displayed in the table that you can see.
If you'll notice, there are dashes in the Q2 2022 column, and that's because the 2022 survey is not yet
complete. And as I just mentioned, that survey-- in addition to the customer survey-- is out in the field
now. And results are anticipated to be available in October. And for the other metric of online
engagement, as you can see from our Q2 column, our performance, as of now, is the same as 2021.
The next strategic priority is customer excellence, which is defined as, "RTD strives to consistently deliver
high-quality customer service." Five out of the seven metrics associated with the strategic outcome are
determined by a customer survey. And as I just mentioned, that is out in the field and anticipated to be
available in October.

For the ridership metric, as you can see from the chart, we're performing better than expected. The
number of passenger boardings per quarter on average in 2021 were 14 million. And that number is our
target for this metric. And as of Q2, our average quarterly boardings were 15 and 1/2 million.
In addition, we're performing well in the metric of system reliability. The average mean distance between
failures across bus and rail are rising, which means there are more in-service miles. Our average mean
distance between failures has increased from an average of 84,000 in 2021 to over 111,000 in Q2. So
we're going in the right direction.
The next strategic priority is employee ownership, and is defined as "RTD seeks to attract and retain a
highly-skilled and engaged workforce." Again, seven of the metrics are determined by a survey. And we
did conduct an employee survey in May of 2022, and I will discuss that survey in a little more detail in the
next section.
So for the other metrics, we are on track for the metric of employee retention. In 2022, we retained 95%
of our high-performing employees. And we define high-performing as those employees meeting or
exceeding expectations on their performance reviews. And as of Q2, we still have 95% of our highperforming employees.
Lastly, the strategic priority of financial success is defined as "RTD takes very seriously the management
of all of its financial resources." And, unlike the other strategic priorities, the majority of the metrics are
internal data to RTD.
One metric is derived from the community survey, which is the community perception of financial
stewardship. And in 2021, 35% of the community agreed or strongly agreed that RTD manages financial
resources well. We should know in October how we're doing on that metric when the results from the
surveys come back in.
With regard to the metrics of variance from adopted budget and the metric of expenditures to outcomes,
the agency is not meeting its performance goal. And this is due mainly to two things-- our people power
challenges and our service levels. We do have staff shortages both internally and externally with our
contractors. And the anticipated growth in ridership that was included in this year's budget hasn't
materialized.
We're also a little bit off track on operating cost per hour. This is also largely attributable to people power
problems because we're having to use salary savings to cover costs associated with overtime, to cover
hiring and referral bonuses, and other things that inflate the cost per hour.
We are doing well in regard to the metric measuring our cash flow and unrestricted reserve and additional
sources of funding. And this is largely because sales and use taxes have been higher than anticipated.
There have been lower operating expenses in the drawdown of American Rescue Plan Act funds.
So as I mentioned, we conducted an employee survey in May of 2022, and I have some high-level results
to share with the Committee. Before jumping into the results, I'd like to talk a little bit about the sample
size. 37% of all employees-- so that's both represented and not represented-- took the employee
ownership survey.
So that means more than 950 employees shared their thoughts and opinions with us. And this is, in large
part, due to our strategic decision to launch the survey in-person at our operating facilities in conjunction

with the May [? Run ?] Board vote to take advantage of representative employees coming in to our
facilities to vote.
Considering the total number of employees at RTD, this means the data from the survey is within 3
percentage points of the actual population 95% of the time. Put another way, if we were to duplicate the
survey 100 times with different employees, the data would be within three percentage points above or
below the data from May 95 of those 100 times.
And, lastly, our response rate was good for an employee survey. Qualtrics, which is a nationallyrenowned survey company, suggests a good response rate for an employee survey is anywhere between
5% and 30%.
The survey garnered our employee net promoter score. And the net promoter score is a widely-used
market research metric that typically takes the form of a single survey question asking respondents to rate
the likelihood that they would recommend a company, a product, or service to a friend or colleague. The
net promoter score was introduced by the Harvard Business Review and has been adopted by more than
2/3 of the Fortune 1,000 list of companies.
Our employee net promoter score is used to evaluate employee loyalty to the organization. And it's
measured on a scale from negative 100 to positive 100, and it's calculated by subtracting detractors from
promoters. And it was based on the question, how likely are you to recommend working at RTD to friends
or family?
And as you can see from the screen, the employee net promoter score for 2022 is 38. And there's
typically a strong correlation between the customer net promoter score and the employee net promoter
score. And that's evident with RTD, as well. At 38, eNPS matches the NPS for our bus service, which is
our largest, from the 2021 customer survey.
Two, committees, now, after the survey, have joined forces to turn those results into action by prioritizing
metrics to focus on for the next year and engage employees to effectuate change. And this is important
because engaging employees improves their experience. It allows them to directly impact their work
environment, to feel part of the culture. They know they're being heard, and they can contribute their
unique skill sets.
The two committees that are working together to drive improvements are the Employee Ownership
Solutions Group and the Employee Ownership Task Force. The Solutions Group is made up of managers
and is chaired by Chief Operations Officer Michael Ford. And the members of this group are in the
position to influence and effectuate change.
The task force is comprised more of frontline employees and is chaired by me, Leah Riley. The members
of this task force understand our business processes. They're connected to employees throughout their
divisions, and they can best advise what's going to work and what won't in terms of change management.
The collaboration between these two groups establishes a sustainable improvement process based on
design-thinking principles. Design thinking relies heavily on collecting and measuring employee feedback.
It means being empathetic to the pain points of others and finding solutions that work.
The Task Force will use existing communication channels and identify new ways to ensure all voices are
heard and employees can be part of the solution. We have created a system that puts the accountability

and responsibility with the appropriate groups to ensure that proposed solutions are actionable and will
resonate with employees across the agency.
In February 2022 and again in the June 2022 Performance Committee, presentations were made on
areas of opportunity. And these opportunities were discerned from the 2021 community and customer
surveys in which respondents noted low satisfaction and high performance to questions regarding RTD
services.
Staff has conducted a crosswalk exercise between the areas of opportunity in the Strategic Plan and
identified metrics upon which to focus that could potentially yield the highest return on investment. In the
community survey, the areas of opportunity are providing adjacent county access, medical facilities
access, reducing traffic congestion, lower fares, more regional connectors, and more routes serving the
places I need to go. And for the customer survey, the areas of opportunity are fair programs, hours of
operation, service frequency, on-time arrival, on-time arrival information being easy to find, and our travel
times.
So we are continuing to make progress in these areas. The Zero Fare for Better Air program ran through
the month of August. The program ran for 31 days and was an upstream approach to change travel
behaviors and curb driving habits.
In addition, the system-wide fare study and equity analysis is going to bring recommendations to make
fares more simplistic, easier to understand, and adjust fares for equity populations. We note that event
ridership and ridership to the airport on rail is strong, which means we're continuing to try to provide
efficient alternatives to driving.
RTD is also developing a new partnerships policy to engage our stakeholders on how to work with RTD to
advance opportunities for mobility and address transportation gaps. The policy is going to bring forth
opportunities to ensure the same level of engagement with our partners, open up opportunities to engage
and allow for a balanced approach.
All that being said, I want to say that given the dynamic environment we've been in for the past two years
and continue to experience, we're making extra efforts to stay plugged in with the community and
stakeholders to maximize service delivery options. And we know things are going to continue to evolve as
remote work continues, job centers are changing, and the economy continues on an uncertain path.
For customer excellence, hours of operation and service frequency are still largely influenced by our
people power problems. Just like the airline industry and other transit agencies keeping up with
prepandemic levels of service remains unattainable. However, with intensified recruiting efforts and hiring
bonuses, we are beginning to stabilize our staffing.
Our changing recruiting efforts are aimed at targeting specific sites and organizations aligned with transit
and the jobs we seek to fill. In addition, the agency held a career fair for bus operations on August 29
through the 31 at East Metro Operating Division. And while we remain shorthanded, it appears we are
starting to stem the tide.
Next, the System Optimization Plan, which aims to align service levels with workforce availability, should
have an impact on on-time arrival and travel time. When routes and service are aligned with staffing
capacities, fewer routes will be dropped.

And with regard to on-time arrival information is easy to find, we have focused most of our efforts on light
rail, which has been a big source of customer complaints. The technology was outdated and based on
schedules, not actual travel times. So light rail station signs have been upgraded, and additional repairs
are scheduled to be completed by the end of this year, 2022.
Efforts are also underway to utilize GPS data, which is much more precise, with a targeted
implementation date of November 2023. And, lastly, additional signage has been added throughout the
system to increase information availability.
So, next, let's talk about the 2022 community and customer surveys. These surveys are already in the
field, and they are going to be live for no fewer than 12 days. I want to point out that we have a new firm
this year, BBC Research. And the methodology they are using is similar to that used by TransPro for the
surveys conducted in 2021.
We are ensuring consistent and comparable data collection and responses. The surveys are going to be
available in English and Spanish, and responses are going to be closely monitored to ensure statistically
valid results from traditionally underrepresented communities. As I said earlier, the results are anticipated
to be presented to the Performance Committee and then to the Board next month, October 2022.
Next, we're going to quickly discuss TransDASH, which is a performance dashboard that is closely
aligned with our Strategic Plan. TransDASH is focused on measuring the value transit brings to
communities over the volume of the system's ridership. RTD is a participant in this nationwide analytical
tool, and it's going to launch on September 26, 2022.
The agency's participation is an initial foray into universal measurement quantifying value over volume. It
is closely aligned with our plan, as it focuses on customer value, community value, and taxpayer value.
And similar to our Strategic Plan, it establishes objective indicators of success and compares
performance over time seasonally and with other transit agencies.
And TransDASH is going to be showcased at the APTA conference in Seattle. So if you are there next
month, check it out. To wrap things up, I'm just going to go over what you can expect from us through the
calendar year and make some closing remarks.
So we're nearing the end of 2022, and we have clear vision and direction from the Board on policy
outcomes. And staff is continuing to focus on the how and the who with strong support from the
leadership team. And the how and the who means how the agency should go about performing its
functions, and who should perform these functions? Our leadership team is answering these questions
and providing day-to-day management.
Throughout the Agency, there's a growing awareness that making lives better through connections means
that we're improving service, not just ridership and on-time statistics, that we're understanding our
customers' needs, and we're investing in our employees. Efforts are being made to empower employees,
to streamline systems, to break down silos, and continue to allocate resources in alignment with the plan.
And we're building upon our progress of educating and informing, and changes are becoming embedded
in the Agency's culture and practices. Conversations on individual metrics are maturing beyond data
collection and reporting to root cause analysis and factors that drive our performance. And we're
operating in such a way that employees can see their work reflected in the Plan and are able to impact
our operations.

That being said, we're still in the midst of straddling the old and the new, and change does take time. We
will continue to remain agile in the midst of the dynamic environment in which we operate. So through the
end of the year, the Committee can expect to receive the results of the second wave of community and
customer surveys and continue to receive updates on our performance in each of the strategic priority
areas. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Leah. Really appreciate you taking the time to walk us through that. With
that, I will open the floor to any directors who might have some questions. Director Davidson, you are
recognized.
LEAH RILEY: Yeah. Thank you for letting me participate in this. And, Leah, thank you for a really great
presentation. Just one thing that comes to mind. I so appreciate that we're getting data, so thank you to
the whole team for that.
One thing we talked about last night is, with regards to the finances, one of the biggest risks to the
strategic outcome, or metric, I should say, variance from budget-- so I'm looking at packet page 13-- is
our people power problem. And that gets very tied in, obviously, to our employee ownership.
So I'm just wondering if the net promoter score-- if part of the thinking of our employee net promoter
score-- is, are we hoping for that to be a leading indicator of attracting new employees? So it looks like
our retention-- that's great that we're tracking it. That's good. Everybody's dealing with the same problem
of attracting new employees.
Perhaps having a higher net promoter score allows our employees to promote that more and attract more
people, compete with other industries. But I'm wondering if somebody-- and perhaps this is a question for
you, Ms. Johnson-- could comment on what we're hoping to measure as the leading indicator of being
able to attract more employees to mitigate some of those risks that we face across the board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much. And Madam Chair, if I may?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. So Director Davidson, thank you for that question. And
you've hit the nail on the head. As we talk about what we need to do collectively, we're a labor-intensive
organization. I mean, for all intents and purposes, when you look holistically at any transit agencies-taking out our debt that we have-- for all intents and purposes, we're looking about 2/3 of our budget
being focused on people.
And so with that as a backdrop, recognizing that we are in a very competitive cycle, what the intent here
is-- to ensure that the 2,700 employees that we have are promoters of the agency. Because when we
look at it holistically, word of mouth, basically, being able to see a day in the life-- Ms. Riley indicated that
there was a bus operator recruitment, a job fair, and it was deliberately had at one of the operating
divisions.
These potential candidates had an opportunity to speak with frontline operators so they could garner a
better understanding what that job would consist of. Traditionally, you may have somebody who was
hiring that has not been in that role. And recognizing the complexities associated with being a frontline,
critical employee, some individuals may not garner, too, understanding of what that means.

So to round out my answer, holistically, as we go forward, we're tracking these intentionally. As we look at
employee ownership, we are leveraging design-thinking principles to ensure that we are being empathetic
to those pain points.
So when we look at the survey responses and the areas of opportunity, we have individuals that are in
the midst of the organization, not at the top of the organization dictating what's happening, but garnering a
sense of ownership so they can promote and then help effectuate change. And the leadership team, in
turn, uplifts that and supports it going forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much for commenting on that. I appreciate it. Certainly, a big one
to watch, right now-- all the more important now than ever before to make sure everybody's very satisfied
in what they're doing. Madam Chair, if I may, just one follow up question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much. Do we know-- do we survey our employees when they come in as
to what factors influence their decision to apply to, find, accept a role with RTD? Is that something that we
capture when new employees come into the organization?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm smiling, and I will yield the floor to Ms. Riley because that is one of the metrics
that we are starting to do so we can be more intentional with our recruitment. Because we had no
baseline data before, and that was an area of opportunity. So, Ms. Riley, if you'd like to elaborate.
LEAH RILEY: Yes, thank you. We are starting to mature in our efforts to gathering that data from our
employees. What we've been focused on for the past year is, really, employee retention. So we've been
putting a lot of our efforts into 30, 60, 90-day interviews with our employees to ensure that they are
happy, they have the tools that they need.
Is there anything that we can address that would keep them from leaving RTD? So as General Manager
Johnson said, we're starting to mature in our efforts to start proactively thinking, now, about collecting
data of what's drawing people to RTD so we can enhance our recruiting efforts.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, that's awesome. Well, Ms. Riley, Ms. Johnson, thank you so much. And thank
you, Chair Lewis, for allowing me to participate. And thank you so much to the team.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Davidson. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. On packet page 19, you show the community and customer
survey opportunities. And this is more of a comment than a question.
But I was struck as to how the System Optimization Plan really does address the customer survey fairly
thoroughly but that the community survey is-- there's a disconnect there, I think, with some of these goals
or some of these items that the community is looking for. What are we doing to address those while
maintaining our core service and meeting the opportunities that the customer survey suggests?
It's just-- they're very, very different, and I just wanted to understand what some of the strategies are for
dealing with that. And, quite frankly, some of the items in the community survey are things that I hear
about in my area, which is very sparsely-represented with RTD service. And I'm hearing a lot of these
things come up in conversations.

And it would be helpful to know what we are doing in response to this. Because, oftentimes, I find myself
wringing my hands because I don't have an answer. So I know that's a long-winded question, but it was
just my observation that they're not really aligned.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, before I yield the floor to Ms. Riley, I want to qualify, I'm pouncing on this
question because Ms. Riley wasn't here during the first iteration. So as a gentle reminder to all, when we,
basically, developed the community survey questions last year, you all helped us identify key
stakeholders in the community so we could garner an understanding what their areas of concerns were.
And so in relationship to the question that you posed, Director Catlin, and you say they're in alignment
with what you're hearing, clearly, that was intentional as we go forward. Because when we looked at the
community survey results, individuals were opining on what they collectively believed the situation to be.
And they're not necessarily users of the system but recognize the value of RTD holistically.
So as we talk about where we're going, this is critical tactics that are resting within the Planning Division,
as well as Government Relations, as well as the Executive Office holistically as we look to forge those
relationships and lean in more. As you may be aware, there is a clear-cut nexus with our involvement with
Metro Mayors.
We have, basically, gone out and done specific field tours to enable ourselves to better garner our
understanding of what it is that we're doing, and educating and informing people, and being more in the
space for those that don't really understand the nuances associated with RTD.
So as we look at providing adjacent county access, medical facility access, lowering fares, and things of
the like, oftentimes, what I have found-- and just this morning I've been involved with two different panels
or public meetings whereby we have been talking about these issues because individuals don't know
what they don't know. And recognizing that RTD-- we are the R in RTD-- collectively, we're going to be
much more intentional.
And Bill Sirois-- he's here, and I would like to call upon him. Because we just had a conversation-- what
was that? About two weeks ago-- about the metrics and as we talked about the jurisdictions and what
we're going to do stakeholder-wise. So if you could expand on that, I would really appreciate it. Thank you
Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Sure. A couple of things I'll note. I mean, I think the things that, on the community side, I
think we are addressing some of those. I mean, the fare study certainly is addressing lowering fares.
We are doing the partnership program to address some of those needs in those areas, maybe, we don't-are not currently served by transit. So there are-- I think, there are some things going on.
But in relation to what Debra said in terms of the Strategic Plan and specific outreach and engagement
with our stakeholders and our elected officials-- actually, we had a meeting this morning. We are going to
be doing a local government survey, both elected officials and stakeholders, about how they feel about
our engagement.
What are we doing well? What are we not doing well? How can we use that as a baseline to improve.
Because I do think that is something that we think that we've consistently heard about. In addition to that,

we're starting the Subregional Service Council process. We hope to start that at the end of-- starting the
end of next month.
So, I mean, we're going to be doing some things, I think, to help establish that dialogue with those local
stakeholders and, I think, in addition to the things that we're already doing with the fare study and some of
the outcomes of Reimagine.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might ask a follow-up question, Madam Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, please do.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I'm sorry. I didn't mean to imply that all of those items were not being
addressed. But, most recently, I've had some nonprofits reach out to me and wanting-- and so, I guess, I
would encourage that in addition to elected officials, we include some of those nonprofits.
And I've had questions up in the mountain communities about adjacent county access and medical
facilities access. As our population is aging, there's concern about getting patrons in some of these senior
living communities down the hill to medical facilities. And I'm loathe to having the answers for them.
And the answer that seems to come up is, we'll develop partnerships. And, I guess, involving the
nonprofits in some of these, what do these partnerships look like, might help me help some of my
constituents in looking at alternatives other than fixed-route service. So that's just a suggestion that I
have.
But, I mean, it's just coincidental that I see about three of these items that have come up in with the
nonprofits. And I'm going to be on my soapbox a little bit here. But there are communities up in the north
and the northwest that are very well-organized, but they have elected officials, and so they have some
standing with their peers.
What I'm dealing with in the unincorporated areas of Jefferson County, there really aren't-- and I think
Marjorie could probably speak to this, as well, although she has more-- she has cities in her area. But
there aren't any town councils or community representatives to provide standing for these groups. And
they're kind of flying by the seat of their pants.
And so, I mean, the representation that we have and that we're trying to work toward-- Marjorie and I-- is
with the county commissioners. But they have such a broad area of focus that's it's kind of hard to meet
some of these individual needs.
So I'm just throwing that out there I think we need to really try and reach some of the communities that
have nowhere else to go. They, don't have a city council representative. They don't have, like I said, as
much standing as some of these other, well-organized communities. That's all. Sorry for my lecture.
BILL SIROIS: Madam Chair, if I may-- just a response. So Director Catlin, I think a couple of things on
that. I mean, one of the things with these Subregional Service Councils, we are intending to have nongovernmental representation.
So if you have nonprofits that would be interested in talking and being involved with these Service
Councils, I think that would be great. Because I think we are looking for non-governmental entities to be
involved in those. And I think they would provide some great perspective in that dialogue that we have
with stakeholders.

And like you said, many of the stakeholders have a little bit more resources and standing. And having that
them involved, I think, would be great. So I think that is something I would just encourage you, if you have
specific non-profits that you've been talking to, please relay them to me as we start to build up those
separate councils and activate them.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if I might impose, they have a regular meeting-- kind of an ad hoc meeting that they
gather a number of these people. And they're meeting right now, as we speak, as a matter of fact. But if
there's one upcoming if you could-- your or one of your staff-- join the meeting and maybe discuss some
of these opportunities, I would greatly appreciate it. It's really just trying to get organized that's a little bit
difficult.
BILL SIROIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd really appreciate it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin, do you have any other questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. I didn't mean to dominate the meeting.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, good. Appreciate the dialogue. Director Sloan, you were recognized.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, Peggy is absolutely right. And she wasn't
dominating. She raised an important issue.
I would also like to add, in addition to nonprofits, institutions of learning-- such as Red Rocks Community
College, and Colorado School of Mines in my district-- employers-- there are a lot of potential partners,
and I would hate to ignore some of them. They can also work together.
For instance, Red Rocks Community College has a Mines Academy at Red Rocks. And they trundle back
and forth between Mines and the Red Rocks campus. It seems like ideal for a partnership service. And
other community members, of course, can also take advantage of the shuttle.
So Peggy is right. We need to expand who we are talking to and get their ideas and their contributions, as
well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Director Sloan. Did you have a question, or just wanted to make the
comment?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just the comment, and I will lower my hand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. Any other directors have additional questions or comments that they'd
like to make before we move to the next agenda item? All right, next up is the GM CEO employment
contract. And Melanie Snyder, our General Counsel, will present on this item. So Melanie, you have a
floor.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Chair. So I'm just going to provide a quick overview and refresher of the
General Manager and CEO's employment contract and how it relates to her performance appraisal, as
well as any adjustments to her compensation. So with respect to her performance appraisal, the contract
provides that she has the opportunity every year, in collection with her annual appraisal, to submit a selfappraisal.

There's not a deadline by which that needs to be done. But the Board does have a deadline of December
31 each year to complete the appraisal. If the appraisal isn't completed by that deadline, then she is
deemed to have met all expectations of the performance period.
So she also has-- there is a contract provision with a deadline that, starting in November of this year-- so
November 1-- the General Manager and CEO also has an opportunity to propose any adjustments by
which she might be evaluated on in the following year, so any adjustments to the weighting of the
success outcomes, or the values, or the distribution of potential compensation adjustments for either base
or incentive pay. So that, there is a deadline of November 1 to do that.
With respect to compensation, the terms that we should talk about-- the Board, as you may recall,
adopted in the most recent amendment that there would be a competitive solicitation for compensation
analysis. So that is something that has been under way. The scope of work was reviewed by the Chair
and Vice Chair of this Committee, as well as the Chair of the Board before it was put out for competitive
solicitation.
And that does-- that scope of work for this compensation analysis-- does track the findings and
recommendations from the 2010 Office of State Audit-- Office of the State Auditor's performance audit,
where the auditor made some recommendations about how compensation should be set for the General
Manager and CEO. So we anticipate-- the Panel has met. We anticipate that the purchase order is going
to be finalized for that work to begin within this week.
And I know we will I know we'll talk a little bit more about timelines later in the agenda, but we anticipate
that this Committee would hear the survey results and a report from our vendor at the October 13
meeting. So that is the compensation analysis. The Board would then take that compensation analysis
and come up with a percentage amount that the GM and CEO is eligible for an increase in salary.
The contract itself, then-- I'm going to just share my screen really quick. It might be easier for you to see
the words on the screen. Just make sure you can-- let me know if you can see that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We can see it, General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, great. Thank you. So as I said, you will take-- the Board will take the
compensation analysis, come up with a percentage increase-- meaning a percentage based on the
overall salary. And then that percentage is the percent increase.
Then you will split that-- you'll take that percent. So let's say it's 2%. 50% of that increase is assigned
here to adjusted base, and 50% would be to the incentive compensation. And then it breaks down a little
bit further. So with respect to the base salary, 25% is based on the weighted success outcomes, and 25%
of that would be based on the organizational values.
And then 50%-- the incentive compensation would be 50% based on the success outcomes, again. So I
will stop sharing that. And we can drill down more into those details once we have the analysis, and we
can walk through what that might look like.
In addition to that analysis, the contract also does provide for an automatic cost of living adjustment. And
that takes place on the anniversary of the General Manager's work history. So that's November 9. So as
you'll recall, that's tied to the consumer price index in the Denver, Lakewood, Aurora area. And that
happens just automatically on November 9.

So the appraisal itself is going to be based 50% on the Strategic Plan success outcomes that Ms. Riley
just went over and 50% based on the organizational values. And I should note that I am working with the
Chair. We spoke-- the Chair and the Vice Chair of this Committee are working with General Manager and
CEO to potentially present an amendment to the contract to make some adjustments to account for the
fact that we do not have-- or we just set the baseline for the employee engagement survey.
And so there's not a follow-up metric as with the other surveys. So that will be coming-- we anticipate
would be coming at the October 13 meeting. And I think that's it, unless anyone has questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Ms. Snyder. Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you all. So, Melanie, at some point, can you get us GM CEO Johnson's current
pay, her base pay, right now?
MELANIE SNYDER: Sure. Absolutely.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook, is that the only question? Your hand's still up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I got back to my tomatoes. Thank you. That's all.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Are there other directors on the call that have questions or comments? All
right, well, that works. So the last item on our agenda is the forthcoming meeting cycles.
So I wanted to just go over a list. We had a really great discussion with myself and Director Dishell and
members of the staff. And so I wanted to outline for you all so you know what to expect from the
Performance committee some important dates.
And so I'm just going to go over the entire timeline. But you will also have access to this via the Board
Office, as well. And I would put it in the chat, but we don't have a chat. So sorry about that.
So Friday, October 7th is the community and customer survey data is anticipated to be available. So you
all know that. Our next Performance Committee meeting will be October 13.
And that meeting will be to consider our GM CEO's employment amendment-- agreement amendment.
Excuse me-- to redistribute weighting of the success outcomes in her evaluation. And as Melanie-- or as
Ms. Snyder let you all know about the success outcomes and the data not being available that that's
going to have to be a dialogue that we'll have as a Board.
October 25, which is a Tuesday, is a regular Board meeting. And you all can expect us to have a
discussion around our GM CEO's employment agreement amendment for consideration for the entire
Board. And we have a placeholder, now, for November 2 for a Performance Committee meeting, which is
a Wednesday at 1:30.
November 8 will be when we expect our General Manager to have her self-evaluation completed. And
then Friday, November 11, an evaluation period for 2022 for the performance begins. So that's for us to
note that we have some work to do between that time frame.

November 16, we will have a Performance Committee meeting. And this will be an opportunity for us to
analyze compensation-- I'm sorry. This will be a meeting for compensation analysis to be presented to the
Committee. And then November 21 at 5:00 PM-- that's an important date for you all to know-- the
evaluation period ends.
And next meeting will be November 30 for a Performance Committee meeting. And then we'll have a
special Board meeting on December 6 for our consideration of the 2022 General Manager CEO
performance appraisal. Again, you can access those dates and details via the Board Office, but wanted to
give you all an outline of what you can expect. General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Madam Chair, and thank you for going over that timeline.
Just a point of clarification-- on Friday, October 7, the reference community and customer survey data-it's anticipated to be received from the consultant by Leah Riley and her team.
So that's an anticipated date. Hence, that's why we ensured that we had a Committee date outlined to go
over that data October 20. So I just wanted to clarify that. So thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm glad you did. Thank you so much for that clarification because I do think it's
important for the members of this Committee and those that are in attendance. So thank you for that. Do
we have any questions from any of the members of this Committee or those that are in attendance
regarding any of the information that we just shared?
All right, so I won't keep you. So our next Performance Committee meeting is scheduled for October 13 at
1:00 PM, which is a Thursday, which is different than the Wednesdays. So that's important for you all to
note. And with that, if no one else anything else, I will adjourn this meeting at 2:30 PM on September 14.
And you all have a wonderful week.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you all.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. See you.

