Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, October 13, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:21 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:18 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:23 PM
6:20 PM
6:19 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:21 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:20 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Absent

6:19 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:20 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:14 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:24 PM
6:18 PM

Director Solano left before the beginning of the Planning and Development Committee
Meeting. Director Lasater was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Garrett Christnacht, Heather Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Adrina Gibson, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Jim Kelley, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Yong Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Eric Anderson, GB Arrington, Mike Dino, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene
Howard, Lorna Moritz, Steve Price, Bob Rizzuto, Dave Sachs, Danielle
Smith, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions
There were no Recommended Actions.

C. Updates

• Sustainability Program
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs,
introduced Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Senior Architect and Urban Designer, and
Garrett Christnacht, Senior Architect, who reviewed a Power Point
presentation with the Board that is available in the October 13, 2015
Planning and Development Committee Meeting Agenda Packet.
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz explained that the Sustainability Policy was established
through a Board Resolution that was passed in 2006 with a goal of
incorporating sustainability in all RTD activities. The Sustainability
Committee was formed to provide input and suggestions in meeting that
goal. He noted the following indicators show that the Sustainability Program
is doing quite well:
 Environmental Footprint
o Greenhouse Gases Emitted
o Energy Consumption
o Water Usage
 Service Footprint
o Bus Passenger-Miles Traveled
o Light Rail Passenger-Miles Traveled

He said that the Sustainability Committee came up with a Service
Effectiveness standard as a measure for how RTD is doing in terms of our
Service Footprint, which was to take the number of boardings divided by the
vehicle revenue miles. He stated that this is not necessarily the same as
cost effectiveness of our service.
Garrett Christnacht shared that there have been accomplishments in
sustainability across the entire organization including bus operations, rail
operations, Eagle P3, West Line, East Metro, US 36 Bus Rapid Transit, and
Denver Union Station. There have also been accomplishments made in
energy use reduction and recycling. He believes it will be important moving
forward to update the RTD Sustainability policy and guidelines, establish a
green procurement policy, monitor sustainability metrics to evaluate the
program, measure walkability within our community and develop
sustainability standards for landscape, recycling, lighting, etc.
Director Folska stated that she was very impressed with the presentation.
She thought it was loaded with great information that is exactly the type of
information that Communications should be leveraging.
Director Folska asked for further information regarding RTD’s water usage.
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz said that Safety, Security and Facilities and Rail
Operations monitor RTD’s water consumption. Sustainability measures,
such as rain sensors, have led to a reduction in water consumption by RTD.
Director Folska shared that she recently toured the Elati Light Rail Facility
and learned that they recycle 90% of the water used, which is very
impressive.
Director Folska noted that the idea of walkability was very important to her.
She pointed out that Downtown Denver is considered to be very walkable;
however, from her perspective walking Downtown is becoming more
challenging due to intersection crossings. She believes it is more important
than ever to have audible signals at every crossing Downtown. She asked
staff to speak with the City of Denver about this. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz said
that the Sustainability Committee would begin the conversation but he
thinks the leadership of the Board is more effective in contributing to those
conversations. Director Folska expressed that she would love to be involved
in the conversations.
Director Menten noted there were several Park-n-Rides that had been
configured for solar panels and charging of electric vehicles but it was noted
that RTD would not receive any revenue from this. She wondered what the
capital cost was in adding this to the Park-n-Rides. Henry Stopplecamp
explained that the only cost was to run conduit to the boxes for the solar
panels and charging stations, which were otherwise left empty. Since the

conduits needed to be run anyway the cost was very minor. Garrett
Christnacht pointed out that to add this later would be far more expensive
then when a Park-n-Ride was under construction.
Director Menten asked staff to have a discussion about the cleanup of the
brownfields that was done along the East Line offline; specifically she is
interested in the high and low value of the cost per acre for cleanup.
Director Menten also inquired how RTD recycles oil. She wondered if we
were able to sell it. Interim General Manager Genova said that it is picked
up by a recycler but he would need to confirm if RTD sold it. He noted there
have been various contracts over the years depending on the market.
Director Lubow expressed her delight at the wonderful work being done by
the Sustainability Committee. She shared that she has a background at the
Environmental Protection Agency and is very supportive of sustainability.
Director Lubow wondered if the Sustainability Committee had determined
the savings to RTD for the various efficiency measures. She thinks that
figure would have some real value. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz stated that it was
not something the Committee had done to-date but would begin an analysis.
Director Lubow commented that while she appreciated looking at the trends
for various efficiencies she also felt like it was presented in a vacuum. She
thought it would be helpful to also include how RTD compares to other
transit agencies. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz explained that the Sustainability
Committee did look at and work with other agencies but it is not necessarily
easy to compare from one to the other. Director Lubow believes there are
some things that must be comparable and hopes to see more information
about this in the future. She thanked the Committee for all of their work.
Director Francone asked for a copy of the Sustainability Policy and
Guidelines. Garrett Christnacht noted that the information is available on the
website in an accessible format. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz said that staff would
send the link to the Directors.
Director Francone asked for a further explanation of the meaning of Service
Effectiveness. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz explained that this was the metric the
Sustainability Committee decided to use in terms of determining
performance of bus and light rail service overall. The figure is determined by
taking the number of boardings divided by the number of vehicle revenue
miles traveled throughout the year. Director Francone believes a metric
related to savings would be a helpful way for the Board to understand the
work of the Sustainability Committee and how it is saving RTD money. She
thinks this is something the constituents would be very interested to hear as
well.

Committee Chair James noted that on the Service Effectiveness trend line
the performance dropped between 2012 and 2013. He wondered if this
was because the capacity of the light rail fleet was increased by a large
amount in that timeframe with the opening of the West Line. He expects
that while there is not an immediate increase in ridership the service
effectiveness would increase in the future. Ignacio Correa-Ortiz stated that
was correct. Committee Chair James encouraged the Sustainability
Committee to try to compare the Service Effectiveness standard to other
agencies. He thinks it would be an interesting comparison. Ignacio CorreaOrtiz said that the Sustainability Committee would continue to investigate
such a comparison.
Chair Sisk asked if natural gas vehicles were something that the
Sustainability Committee had considered. He shared that he has been
receiving feedback that RTD is behind the times using diesel vehicles. Bruce
Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, explained that during
the most recent bus procurement staff did an analysis of Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG) versus clean diesel vehicles. He noted that while there
would be operational savings using CNG the capital costs far outweigh those
savings. Additionally, since we are purchasing clean diesel vehicles the
emissions are very comparable. Chair Sisk indicated that RTD needed to get
better about getting the message out about our clean diesel vehicle
emissions.

• Transit Oriented Development Assessment
Bill Sirois, Transit Oriented Communities Senior Manager, noted that this is
the third presentation from the Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
Consultants. He reminded the Board that the team is comprised of GB
Arrington of GB Place Making, Lorna Morita of TRA, and Arleen Taniwaki of
ArLand. They reviewed a Power Point presentation that is available in the
October 13, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.
The presentation focused on an overview of material covered in past
briefings, Board interviews, key recommendations, a short-term action
agenda, and creating a proactive TOD pipeline.
GB Arrington noted that the six themes for this presentation were:
 RTD is on track with TOD
 There is more to do to be ready for 2016
 RTD needs to strengthen tools and decisions making for the TOD
department
 RTD needs an updated TOD Strategic Plan
 RTD needs to move to a proactive TOD pipeline

GB Arrington outlined for major recommendations that the consultants were
suggesting the Board and staff consider as:
 Elevating TOD within RTD
 Complementing and augmenting RTD’s TOD Tool Box
 Strengthening internal processes for developing and managing TOD
 Updating the TOD strategy and resolving some key issues
GB Arrington reviewed the Short Term Action Agenda they created to help
address some of the recommendations and findings. He said that the RTD
Board needs to provide clear policy direction on TOD and how it should be
considered in making agency decisions. He believes it is very important that
the TOD Strategic Plan be updated; at a minimum the mission, parking,
consolidated functions and communications need to be evaluated. GB
Arrington stated that RTD should also:
 Strengthen internal TOD decision-making and transparency
 Adopt an unsolicited proposals policy
 Create an internal TOD Swat Team
 Establish TOD group as the point of contact for TOD
 Act as an ombudsman for development partners
GB Arrington explained that it is also very important for RTD to be ready for
2016. The TOD toolbox needs to be complemented and augmented to
include access to appraisals, real estate expertise and real estate legal
counsel as well as sufficient permanent staffing. He commented that a
digital real estate inventory system would also be beneficial. There should
also be a clear framework for a TOD portfolio analysis to determine and
assess promising stations. GB Arrington thinks it is important that the TOD
Pilot Lessons Learned report is completed.
Committee Chair James thanked the TOD Consultants for the
comprehensive report. He commended them for acknowledging the good
things that staff and the Board have done in the TOD arena as it is ever
evolving. He asked if the staff had any comments before he opened it up to
the Board.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, reminded the Board
that this is an outside assessment that reflects back what the Consultants
heard from internal and external parties as well as the Consultants
recommendations. He explained that some of the action items are ones that
can be acted upon by staff while some are policy level decisions that will
require Board action.
Interim General Manager Genova said he appreciates the comment that RTD
compares well with national best practices. He noted that Denver Union

Station is the national model for TOD. He thinks the TOD staff is
empowered but often have to come back to have multi-department
meetings. He believes that RTD already has a lot of tools and documents
used for design criteria. Interim General Manager Genova thinks that RTD
needs to formalize some of the things we already do.
Committee Chair James asked the Consultants to explain how the TOD
Swat Team differs from the TOD staff. GB Arrington explained that the
TOD Swat Seam needs to involve all the different groups at RTD at the start
of a TOD. This allows the full agency to identify any issues and work
through them collaboratively.
Committee Chair James shared that one of the things he has learned in
working outside RTD is that you have to be patient. Real estate markets
evolve very slowly. He said it is very easy to have expectations that are
greater than the reality.
Director Bagley pointed out that time kills real estate deals. He believes
anything that can be done to facilitate TOD projects not taking vast amounts
of extra time is critical. He expressed his excitement at receiving the
Consultants’ report and recommendations. He recognized how hard the
TOD team works. He said he was happy to hear that staff planned to work
on the short term action agenda. Director Bagley noted that there are five
new corridors opening in 2016. He hopes that RTD will be proactive and
challenged staff to be more aggressive. He stated that Denver Union Station
is a great example of what can be done. Director Bagley thinks that TOD
should be a primary focus, not tertiary. He expressed concern over the
issues between TOD and Real Property.
Director Lubow said she was very excited about the study. She believes
this is a very special time in Denver with the construction of FasTracks and
RTD could change the face of the Denver metro area. She agrees with
Director Bagley that TOD is very important and now is the time to act. She
thanked the consultants and staff for the candor of the report. She asked
that staff keep the Board updated as to the progress of implementing the
recommendations. Director Lubow wondered how one elevates TOD. She
thinks it is a nice phrase but is not sure how that is done. Director Lubow
also expressed concern about being ombudsmen for developers. She does
not think of them as shrinking violets that need a lot of help. Director
Lubow said that RTD needs to be careful about not being too supportive.
Committee Chair James believes one way of elevating TOD is to create the
TOD Swat Team. He asked staff to prepare a plan for the Board outlining
how to accomplish each recommendation or if a recommendation might not
be feasible.

Director Walker asked if any of the tools recommended by the Consultants
were included in next year’s budget. He thinks it would be a shame to put
all this work in a high profile area but not fund it. Bill Sirois said that
obviously he would like more funding just like every department but that
TOD is getting resources. He said that the process had been started to hire
an additional person. The team would use this report to determine what
resources are the most important.
Director Walker wondered if the station area plans made by various cities
were helpful. Bill Sirois acknowledged that there are over 50 station area
plans. He said that some have higher expectations than they should, which
creates challenges. He believes it will be important to evaluate those station
area plans to determine what ones are most viable and perhaps nudge them
forward. GB Arrington explained that station area plans are helpful to
indicate who your neighbors will be but do not address RTD’s land; so RTD
needs to use those plans to determine how to be the partner with what is
planned to be around RTD’s property.
Director Francone said she found the report very helpful. She appreciated
that it outlined the good parts of RTD’s TOD as well as showing where there
is room for improvement, which she knows staff will take to heart. She
asked if the Consultants could give examples of the types of decisions the
TOD team should be empowered to make. GB Arrington said that TOD at
RTD involves many different departments. He explained that with the swat
team decisions should be vetted internally so that there is one answer;
however, that does not happen today. He stated that there are multiple
answers with multiple people speaking. He recognized that RTD has
established itself as a leader in building things but not as a partner with the
development community. He noted that there are some question marks
surrounding RTD and those need to be removed so they developer
understands the implications of working with RTD.
Director Francone wondered how GB Arrington would measure success for
RTD. He believes that success means RTD has a clear and transparent
decision making process with well-defined rules of engagement. He hopes
that RTD will move from being reactive to proactive. He said that in the full
report this would be outlined in much more detail that the Directors would
be getting soon.
Director Francone commented that to her RTD’s mission is transportation
and not necessarily land development or low income housing; however, RTD
is tasked with being good stewards of the real estate and properties that
RTD does own. She expressed concern that there is not documentation of
the land holdings that can be leveraged. Director Francone said her goal is

to leverage RTD’s land in a profitable way. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
said she wanted to provide some examples of conflicts that have come up
that needed to be resolved. She shared that there was a piece of property
that RTD owned next to one of our light rail maintenance facilities that staff
wanted to use to expand operations; however, there was tremendous
pressure from the municipalities that wanted RTD to give up the land for
development. She shared that Denver Union Station was another project
that had conflict. Initially Bus Operations was getting tremendous pressure
from the City of Denver to not layover buses on the City streets. She
explained that plans were made to widen the facility to layover buses
underground; however, this would have given up land for development that
was paying for the development. She noted that the conflicts between
operations and developers are very real and getting them on the table right
away is critical.
Committee Chair James agreed that conflicts do arise. He said the TOD
report from the Consultants encouragement to minimize conflicts by
leveraging the resources RTD has.
Director Folska thinks that perhaps TOD should be its own department
within RTD but then a business case would need to be made that it was a
sustainable department. She said she is very interested in the inventory of
RTD’s real estate assets along with the opportunities for each of those
assets. She believes it is important to be able to show what makes a
successful TOD.
Director Bagley pointed out that everyone wants to have first and last mile
connectivity around stations as well as better pedestrian activity. He stated
that requires RTD to work with our partners. He commented that without
Denver Union Station as RTD’s transit hub the FasTracks project would not
be functional, so the compromises made there were very important. He said
that Boulder Junction is another example of a TOD that RTD has been
involved with. He shared that there is a ULI forum he will be attending on
Boulder Junction. He reiterated that it is not just moving people from A to B
but working with the community to make the TOD functional.
Director Bagley suggested creating something similar to the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force where RTD involves people from the development
community, municipalities, etc. He believes acting as an ombudsman is very
important as there needs to be someone who can cut through the tape and
help the developers navigate the bureaucratic maze of the government.
Director Bagley does not believe the TOD division needs to make money as
that is not the purpose of TOD.

Committee Chair James thanked the team for the report. He thinks they
have made great progress. He hopes RTD can use the leverage we have to
be a catalyst for good TOD.

D. Other Matters
Interim General Manager Genova announced that Jyotsna Vishwakarma had been
names as the Acting Senior Manager of Engineering/Chief Engineer while Henry
Stopplecamp filled in as the Acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs.
He shared that she had been with RTD a number of year and completed the
Leadership Academy.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 3, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:58 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

