Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 14, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
September 13, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tayer.
Directors Anderson and Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Martell Dyles, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins,
Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Greg Smith,
John Tarbert, Christina Tubb and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Kevin Abels – FRESC, Howard Alton – ATU 1001, Greg Amparano –
DTP, Joe Anzures – Anzures & Associates, Gus Avila, Celina Benavidez
– Celina Inc., Chris Blackwood – PFM, William Cash – CDC, Chris Cruz
– Celina Inc., Dwight Cunningham – Advance Network Solution, Selena
Dunham – Classique LLC., Philippe Gervaise – ACS, Matthew Helfant –
Douglas County, Kris Korteweg – Lamar Advertising, Claudine Minor –
Minor Construction, Massimo Rolle - ACS, Chris Stoneman – iCAST,
Landri Taylor – Urban League, Katrina Wert – CCP/WIN,
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.

Recommended Action


Execution of 2012 Option with Global Transportation for the provision of Accessa-Ride Service

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 2 of 7

It is recommended by the operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
contract between RTD and Global Transportation for the provision of Access-a-Ride
paratransit services in order to incorporate an option for the provision of Access-aRide service for the period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012. This
contract amendment will be for one year in an amount not to exceed $6,205,151.
This will conclude our 5 year contract with Global Transportation. The combined total
amounts for this contract, including all option years, shall not exceed $24,991,088
for the five year period. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel
costs in amounts estimated to total approximately $2,457,532 for the initial three
year period and $4,445,115 for the five year period.
Bruce Abel noted that we are currently in our 4th year with Global Transportation. The
Board had requested a few years ago that the remaining years be classified as option
years and we are requesting to enter into the 2012 option. This will be the last year
of the contract period.
Director Daly added that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force had recommended the
Access-a-Ride carriers go from 4 service providers to 3 and inquired if that is still
being considered. Bruce Abel explained that prior to 2008 it was more cost effective
to go from 5 providers to 4 and conceptually it could hold true to move from 4 to 3.
However, multiple providers provide us a safety net, but it is possible.
Director O’Boyle added that he hopes in the coming year we are more focused on
looking at the risks and benefits of moving from 4 service providers to 3. Director
O’Boyle further inquired if fuel cost reimbursements included fuel taxes that we are
exempt from but the providers are not. Larry Buter noted that Global Transportation
furnishes us their receipts which we then audit, but we do reimburse them for the
taxes that are paid at the pump. Bruce Abel added that due to the way that
legislation is crafted, our contractors are not exempt from the taxes that we are
exempt from due to the fact that they are private entities.
Marla Lien explained that we have spoken to our lobbyists on an annual basis about
this concern, but given the state’s budget constraints they would not be willing to
forgive all those taxes for private providers.



Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
September 20, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Recommendation to advance Proposed January 2012 Service Changes to Public
Comment

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 3 of 7

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed January 2012 Service Changes (Attachment
A) as amended on to public review and comment.
Jeff Becker explained that he appreciated meeting with all of the Board members and
noted all of the meetings were productive, constructive and explanatory. With the
magnitude of these changes we have made adjustments, corrections and changes
after our meetings with the Directors.
Jessie Carter noted that there are still a few Board members that we haven’t had a
chance to meet with yet but we know that there are some meetings scheduled for
later this week. Also, there was one public hearing missing from the list which
concerns Heather Gardens, which brings the total to 21 public hearings that we will
have for these service changes.
Director Tayer noted that he had sent an email to staff regarding a few concerns
from his meeting with the Executive Board of ATU 1001. The first concern was that
cuts in higher passenger load areas may compromise run times and would create
safety issues if too many people stand in the aisles. They also noted that there might
be opportunities to cut service during holiday periods as opposed to regular service
cuts. Also, the issue around management staff proportions and how those are
increasing. Fuel costs were mentioned implying that perhaps we are budgeting at a
higher rate than necessary and finally a question about interest rate projections in the
budget. And finally, if the sales tax figures do increase beyond what we expect, how
are we going to address those potential resources.
Bruce Abel explained that we are very cognizant of what passenger loads can be
accommodated and how those passenger loads may affect running times. As it
relates to the holiday issue we have been looking at how we might accommodate
that request, but we continue to evaluate how we might go about doing that in a
cost effective manner. The other questions I will defer to General Manager
Washington and Terry Howerter to answer.
General Manager Washington added that we do not predicate our fuel locks on
current prices. If we were to lock in our price right now it would be more than the
$2.88 that is currently assumed in the budget. We always seek and want the input
from everyone, but in these instances we believe that we are providing the correct
recommendations and assumptions to the Board in moving forward with the 2012
budget.
Director Deadwyler noted that her biggest concern is that we are hurting the transit
dependent elderly minorities.
Director Malpiede indicated that the amendment of the 32 not going to the Zoo is
unacceptable. For the transit dependent families to be able to take their families to
the Zoo is very special and that route should be looked at again.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 4 of 7

Director Hoy added that he did not see any public hearings in his district and noted
that it would seem appropriate to have a meeting in every district.
Chair Kemp noted that the public will offer great suggestions on how to make things
better, but this is a very difficult process.
Director Bagley added that he would like to see a meeting in downtown Littleton as
we are making radical changes in light rail service.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she would like to see a meeting held central to the
City Park/Park Hill area since those people are the ones that will be most affected by
the 32.
Committee Chair Tobiassen stated that when the Board adopted the SBP we knew
that this would be a painful process. We will have to work through it to try to meet
the commitment and goal that we are striving for. Director Tobiassen added that he
has been working with the Denver Regional Mobility and Access Council (DRMAC) in
trying to find ways to remove barriers that can help people with disabilities move
from Access-a-Ride onto fixed route service. Also, the FTA sponsors a study called
the Transit Cooperative Research Program and they have a new service delivery
model for paratransit which might offer us some savings.



Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
September 20, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

New on-vehicle advertising opportunities

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to implement a pilot program to allow one
light rail vehicle to be completely wrapped with an RTD advertisement at no cost to
RTD to determine the viability of permitting this type of advertising on the rail fleet.
In addition, it is recommended that the current on-vehicle advertising contract with
Lamar Transit Advertising be amended to permit the installation of “headliner”
advertising signage above the windows on RTD buses.
Scott Reed noted that for some time Tony McCaulay has been working with Lamar
Advertising to pursue additional potential revenue sources through our advertising
program. We are asking to amend the contract which would allow us to fully wrap
light rail vehicles. In addition, Lamar Advertising is seeking the ability to sell the
headliner on buses.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 5 of 7

Director McMullen indicated that he doesn’t know why we put any handcuffs on our
advertising and is in favor of getting away from micromanaging an advertising
department function.
Director O’Boyle noted that he would not be voting in favor of this action item and
added that he does not believe advertising on light rail vehicles is adequate or
effective and should be removed altogether. He was not in favor of the bus headliner
advertisements as well.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
September 20, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with (10) votes in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer and Tobiassen)
and
(1)
against
(O’Boyle).
Director
Deadwyler had stepped out for a brief
moment before this vote was taken.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this
item
would
move
forward
under
recommended action.
II.

Information
 Access-a-Ride Update
Bruce Abel noted that as a result of improved software upgrades we have identified
120 individuals who will be impacted and we have contacted them and continue to
work with them to help determine viable alternatives for their mobility needs.
Bruce Abel added that to be certified to use Access-a-Ride one does not need to
reside within the ¾ mile service area. An individual may reside anywhere, yet still be
Access-a-Ride certified. The guidelines and thresholds come into play within where
the service is provided.
Larry Buter indicated that there are 120 individuals who will be impacted by the new
software upgrades and of those we have contacted 50%. The majority of those
understand the logic behind the decision; unfortunately there are those that have no
other options.
Director Bagley noted that 120 individuals are outside of the ¾ mile service area
parameters and asked if we could create some sort of waiver determined by a waiver
board to allow the people who have been using this service to continue to do so.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 6 of 7

Director McMullen explained that just a few months ago he was essentially paralyzed
himself and if the route near him went away or was rerouted, he would not qualify
for Access-a-Ride service. Director McMullen added that a simple solution would be
to grandfather these individuals in. We must make an exception for those people who
do not have other alternatives.
Director Deadwyler added that if we have been servicing these 120 people all along
that we have to figure out a way to continue their service.
Bruce Abel noted that staff is not asking for Board action at this time, but we will
continue to work with these individuals to help them figure out alternatives be it
Access-a-Cab or other service providers.
 Quarterly reports – contracted services/safety and security
Chair Kemp noticed that Veolia hired a new maintenance director and asked who that
individual was.
 CAD/AVL Update
Bruce Abel noted the CAD/AVL was included in the packet and would entertain any
questions. Seeing none, Bruce Abel moved onto the Smart Card Update.
 Smart Card Update
Bruce Abel added that John Stark who was the project manager has left RTD and the
new project manager is Gary Googins.
Director Tayer explained that this project has offered highly dissatisfying results and
cries out for a lessons learned. There was obviously some sort of breakdown in the
technology interface and the contractor has stepped forward in trying to find a
solution. This is a situation that has created a black eye for the agency relative to a
number of our transit users. I think we should reach out to our pilot program
volunteers to keep them updated along with our stakeholders. We need to move
forward and learn from this lesson.
Director Daly added that this is not good. The report contains words like failed, not
delivered as planned, behind schedule, not yet received and the first two bullet points
are solid red.
Director Hoy indicated that this was Mr. Googins time to shine. This is currently
unacceptable and we are disappointed in the whole performance. There needs to be
some analysis done to see how we got here since this is the only project we have
that is not going out on time.
Chair Kemp added that General Manager Washington prides himself on all of the
contracts we have and their implementation. When a contract is implemented is it a
direct reflection of the General Manager, and the performance he demands from
contractors has been excellent up until this time. This project needs to be corrected.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 7 of 7

Director Bagley asked that the Board have monthly updates instead of every other
month.
Director Cohen recalled the competitor for this bid tried to caution us indicating that
this technology was still in the development stages. Perhaps this is one of those
lessons learned and we should understand that the vendors know better than we do.
 Fare Box Update
Gary Googins noted that 13 fare boxes were replaced as of today. Veolia has a very
aggressive schedule in place and the entire bus fleet will have new fare boxes by the
end of the year.
III.

Other Matters
Director Bagley added that the South Metro Chamber of Commerce attended the CU
football game and Mr. Bagley had the opportunity to meet with Bruce Benson and Phil
DiStefano.
Chair Kemp further added that if everything goes as planned we will have a new Board
member for District D. Jeff Walker is Mayor Hancock’s candidate of choice, and he will
be affirmed Monday, September 19th. Mr. Walker will be here for our formal Board
meeting on September 20th and will be sworn in at that time.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that the paperless packet program is moving forward
and is making good progress. He will be contacting each Board member this week.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – October 18, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:02 p.m.

