Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 26, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bob Downes – Grants Coordinator/Capital Budget Analyst – 38 years
Steve S. Fenton – Bus Operator – 27 years
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo
Bus International Participants
John Johnson (RTD – 12th Place)
Abniger EK Chan (First Transit – 6th Place)
Maintenance International Participants (7th Place)
Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez Jr. and Tim Wallace
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 Bus Security Gold Award for Security Program Excellence
Tiffany Angel, Georgann Van Gemert, John Tarbert and Bob Grado

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley

CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
B.

Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the
“Agreement”).

XIII.

Recommended Action
C.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for
state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to
exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract
No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
D.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with ZoZo Group, LLC of
Denver for the sale and installation of exterior advertising on ADA paratransit vehicles for
the two and one-half year period July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with two oneyear options for 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, ZoZo
Group, LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015,

$200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is
greater.
E.

January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in Attachment A, to
take effect beginning January 1, 2016.
F.

Videotaping RTD Board Meetings Board Report

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all RTD Board
meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD
website for public viewing. This action also approves the initial upfront costs not to
exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment necessary to record the meetings. In
addition, this action approves funding for a contract technician to facilitate the video
recording at each meeting and an offsite contractor to provide closed captioning services.
These services combine for an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

