Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 26, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bob Downes – Grants Coordinator/Capital Budget Analyst – 38 years
Steve S. Fenton – Bus Operator – 27 years
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 International Bus & Paratransit Roadeo
Bus International Participants
John Johnson (RTD – 12th Place)
Abniger EK Chan (First Transit – 6th Place)
Maintenance International Participants (7th Place)
Jon Paul Mitchell, Ernesto Perez Jr. and Tim Wallace
Special Recognition – APTA 2015 Bus Security Gold Award for Security Program Excellence
Tiffany Angel, Georgann Van Gemert, John Tarbert and Bob Grado

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley

CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to Governance

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to
the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's
independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
B.

Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the
“Agreement”).

XIII.

Recommended Action
C.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for
state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to
exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract
No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
D.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with ZoZo Group, LLC of
Denver for the sale and installation of exterior advertising on ADA paratransit vehicles for
the two and one-half year period July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with two oneyear options for 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, ZoZo
Group, LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015,

$200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is
greater.
E.

January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in Attachment A, to
take effect beginning January 1, 2016.
F.

Videotaping RTD Board Meetings Board Report

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all RTD Board
meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD
website for public viewing. This action also approves the initial upfront costs not to
exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment necessary to record the meetings. In
addition, this action approves funding for a contract technician to facilitate the video
recording at each meeting and an offsite contractor to provide closed captioning services.
These services combine for an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

STUDY SESSION
April 28, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:28 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Remote
Present
Present
Remote
Present

Arrived
4:47 PM
5:25 PM
4:53 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:27 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:17 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:28 PM
5:27 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:26 PM
5:03 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

Directors Anderson and Deadwyler participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Jessie Carter, Lee Cryer, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Tina Jaquez,
Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin,
Barbara McManus, Deborah Mendez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Paula
Perdue, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Packet Pg. 4

6.A

Others Present:

Fare Task Force Update
Chair Sisk thanked everyone for their attendance at this evening’s Study Session. He
recognized that the Board would not be taking questions from the audience; this is a
chance for the Directors to become more informed on what staff is proposing as a result
of the public input process throughout the Fare Study. He said that the final proposal will
come to the Operation and Customer Service Committee on May 19th and to the full Board
on May 26th.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, noted that Interim General
Manager Genova sends his apologies as he is unable to attend the meeting due to a family
emergency. He recognized Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, and
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager, who would be presenting the updated Fare Study
recommendations with him this evening.
Lacy Bell reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the April
28th, 2015 Study Session Agenda Packet. She reminded the Board that the objective of
the Fare Study was to simplify RTD’s fare policy in an equitable and cost-effective manner
to better serve the needs of the District and customers moving forward while meeting the
following goals:
 Simplicity (ease of use)
 Acceptability/Marketability (implementable)
 Affordability/Equity (cost of service and relationship between modes and services)
 Achieve RTD revenue goals to avoid service reductions ($131.3M in 2016)
 Integrate 2016 transit line openings
Lacy Bell pointed out that the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) currently includes increases in
fare revenue in 2016 and 2019, which would typically come from an increase in fare
levels. Bruce Abel explained that RTD’s costs escalate by the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
every year. The rationale is that rather than change the fare every year to account for
CPI, it is better to program in an increase of around a quarter every few years.
Lacy Bell said that staff conducted an online survey asking riders if they would prefer a
fare increase or service reduction. She stated that overall 47% of respondents prefer a
fare increase to a service reduction, 22% had no preference, and 30% preferred a service
reduction to fare increase. She noted that individuals in the lowest income categories had

Packet Pg. 5

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

Brian Allen, Ana Barrera-Ochoa, Lizeth Chacon, Pam Chadbourne,
Audrey DeBarros, Joni Goheen, Tom Grushka, Jaime Lewis, Cindy
Pollan, Hanni Raley, Dave Salz, Jeanne Shreve, Vivian Stovall, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Daniella Villareal, Dace West, Laura
Wolfgram

6.A

Bruce Abel thanked the Affordable Fares Task Force headed by Mile High Connects for all
of their efforts in working with RTD to address fares for low income riders. He said that
often groups come to RTD with requests, expecting RTD to pay for everything; this has
not been the case with the Affordable Fares Task Force. They are really working
collaboratively with us to come up with a long-term, financially viable solution. He
expects the very productive conversations to continue.
Lacy Bell shared that staff received a great deal of input during the public comment
process. She said that several main themes did surface during the process and staff has
had much discussion of the tradeoffs necessary to address the feedback received. The
major themes along with their public feedback and staff’s current thoughts are:
 Affordability: Feedback
o Overwhelming feedback that a fare increase would have a significant impact
on disabled and low-income individuals
o RTD has received organized input from the Mile High Connects Affordable
Fares Task Force with a request for a 50% discount program for individuals
who are at or below 150% of the Federal Poverty Level
 Affordability: Current Thoughts
o Working with the Affordable Fares Task Force to identify possible funding
sources and determine the feasibility of implementing a low income half fare
discount program
o A universally available low income half fare would result in an estimated
$11-$12M loss in fare revenue every year
o Continuing to evaluate opportunities to improve the existing Non-Profit
Agency Reduced Fare Program
 Day Pass: Feedback
o General consensus that the day pass priced at two boardings is a good
alternative for most passengers in order to eliminate transfers
o Heard a desire to purchase day passes in advance similar to 10-Ride Ticket
Books
 Day Pass: Current Thoughts
o Day pass priced at a roundtrip will be included in the final staff
recommendation
o Access to the day pass on board the bus is a key component
o Evaluating options for selling day passes in advance at sales outlets

Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

a higher preference for service reduction over a fare increase. Bruce Abel said that a
similar survey was conducted in 2011. In that survey there was unanimity in terms of all
income categories preferring a fare increase as opposed to a service reduction, which is a
different from the 2015 survey. Lacy Bell commented that this feedback also generally
supports what staff has heard at the public hearings.















Transfers: Feedback
o Many individuals expressed concern about elimination of transfers but often
did not understand how the Day Pass would work
o Results of passenger survey suggest that 2% of passengers pay cash and
make only a single one-way trip with transfers in a day
Transfers: Current Thoughts
o Allow transfers for passengers using smart cards
o Cashing paying passengers would not get transfers but could still purchase a
day pass at the price of a round trip
Bus Fares: Feedback
o Concern about keeping Express and Regional bus fares while recommending
one Local fare on Rail
o Support for simplification of fares on Regional bus routes
o Concern about US 36 BRT having multiple fare levels
Bus Fares: Current Thoughts
o Consolidate Express and Regional routes into one “REX” category
o Simplify the US 36 BRT fares with Local fare for all-stop routes and trips
between downtown Denver and the US 36-Sheridan Station and REX fares
for all express trips
Rail Zones: Feedback
o Conflicting comments regarding the proposal to eliminate rail zones
o Survey suggests that many passengers like the flat rail proposal and a
general acknowledgement that is provides simplification
o Concerns that eliminating rail zones provides a fare reduction for higher
income rail riders while increasing fares on low income bus and rail riders
o Concerns about maintaining Express and Regional bus fares with a flat rail
structure
o Substantial revenue loss of $6M from flat rail fares
Rail Zones: Current Thoughts
o Evaluating options to simplify zone/distanced based structure to a two-tier
rail structure
o Achieves consistency with current bus thinking
Airport: Feedback
o Conflicting feedback on Airport fare
o Desire to have a higher fare for occasional visitor and business travelers
o Concerns about Airport fares being too expensive for airport employees even
with the ability to use Regional day or monthly passes
o Some feedback that the hard boundary at the Airport was unfair and shorter
trips from east Denver or Aurora should be less expensive

Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A





Airport: Current Thoughts
o Continue to have a higher fare for single trips to or from the Airport that
would likely only be used by occasional travelers
o Consolidation to the two fare categories instead of three categories would
allow a REX day or monthly pass to be used for travel to the Airport
Monthly Pass Pricing: Feedback and Current Thoughts
o Concerns about monthly pass prices increasing at a higher percentage than
the cash fare increase
o Two reasons for the original staff recommendation to increase the monthly
pass breakeven point from 36 to 40: (1) level the discount between cash
and monthly pass users and (2) achieve revenue targets
o Evaluating revenue impacts associated with reducing monthly pass
breakeven to 38 boardings

Lacy Bell summarized that based on all of the public feedback staff is now proposing a
Local Bus/Rail fare at $2.60, a local REX Bus/Rail fare at $4.50 and an Airport Bus/Rail
fare at $9.00 per single boarding paying with cash. The discount fares for seniors 65+,
individuals with disabilities, Medicare recipients and students ages 6-19 would continue to
be a half price fare. She said single boardings paying with a Smart Card would receive a
.25 cent discount and Day Passes would be 2x the comparable fare. Lacy Bell stated that
a Local Bus/Rail Monthly Pass would cost $99 and a REX Bus/Rail Monthly Pass would
cost$171 which could be used for travel to the Airport.
Lacy Bell noted that these fare levels achieve the SBP target of $131.3M revenue for
2016. She mentioned that there were also many comments about $2.50 being better
than $2.60 for a local fare; however, the models are forecasting an additional $2 million in
fare revenue each year so staff is continuing to recommend $2.60 for a Local fare.
Bruce Abel pointed out that there have been many questions regarding the Eco and
CollegePass pricing increasing by 12%. He explained that per the Board policy from 2009,
until data from the Smart Cards is used to determine new Eco and CollegePass pricing, the
pricing will escalate at a rate similar to the other fare increases. He stressed that part of
the next steps is to evaluate all RTD’s pass programs, including the Eco and College Pass.
Lacy Bell outlined the next steps as follows:
 May 19th Operations Committee
o Present revised staff recommendation incorporating current thoughts and
Board Feedback
 Board adoption May 26th
 Implementation early 2016

Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Continued effort on pass programs especially regarding feasibility and timeframe for
a low income discount program
o Updates and recommendations expected by late summer

Chair Sisk recognized that there has been an extraordinary amount of work put into this
study. He appreciates staff being willing to step forward and listen with an open mind and
then translate what they heard into refinements of their recommendation. He believes this
has been a very positive process. Chair Sisk requested that each Director confine
themselves to two questions initially and he will open it back up after everyone has had a
chance to ask their questions.
Director Bagley pointed out that while the presentation discusses an $11-$12M shortfall in
revenue if RTD offered the low income half fare, that is only until fare goes up again. He
stressed that any financial solution that is created with Mile High Connects needs to
recognize that this is not a stable number and it will increase. Bruce Abel stated that one
of the main discussion points with the Affordable Fares Task Force is how a sustainable
revenue stream can be established to move forward with a low income fare. He said that
sustainability is very much part of those conversations.
Director Bagley inquired how much it would cost to take the C Line from Littleton to
Denver Union Station and then travel either to the Airport or Jeffco Government Center.
Bruce Abel stated that a day pass would always be the best option when a rider had a
multiple leg trip. He noted that people will need to consider what will best serve them
before beginning their trip.
Director Walker wonders what staff plans to classify the trip from Nine Mile Station to
University Station within the proposed two fare zones. He noted that currently this is
considered a Local fare despite being a very long trip. Bruce Abel said that staff is
currently working to establish the fare zones so it is difficult to say at this time.
Director Folska said she wanted to applaud staff for their efforts. She believes they have
really been doing a full court press in reaching out to the public. She said that there are
people that had the perception that RTD was wasting people’s time by having them
provide feedback but not doing anything with it; however, this demonstrates that has
really been responsive to the feedback we are receiving. Director Folska really appreciates
that.
Director Folska expressed that she is thrilled to see staff communicating in a collaborative
way with Mile High Connects. She shared that recently a city councilman asked why RTD
does not provide public transportation free for everyone. Director Folska stated that it is
important for everyone to understand that we are doing what State Legislature mandates

Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



6.A

Director Lubow thanked staff for the incredible work they have done during the fare study.
She appreciates the movement staff has made in trying to address the public concerns.
She stressed how much RTD has heard from the local community about their economic
crunch and how raising fares will really hurt our transit dependent riders. Director Lubow
wants staff to be aware that there is a lot of support from the Board to help low income
people access RTD in the future. Director Lubow expressed concern that customers
would need to have a credit card in order to get a Smart Card. She noted that many low
income individuals do not have credit cards. Bruce Abel stated that customers did not
need a credit card to get a Smart Card. Lacy Bell explained that even if a customer loaded
only $3 onto a Smart Card they would still benefit from the discounted fare.
Director Lasater commended staff for starting with a 5000 piece puzzle that was missing
about 2000 pieces and finding about 1500; it sounds like staff has not found all the
answers quite yet but it was a huge undertaking to listen to the public and try to
incorporate their feedback into the fare structure. He thinks his constituents will be
happier with staff’s updated proposal. He appreciates that staff has made bus and light
rail fares consistent. Director Lasater inquired how a passenger can prove that they meet
the age requirements for a discounted senior fare. Bruce Abel said that the preferred
method is for a rider to get a Special Discount Card but that does require the rider to come
to the RTD Administrative Office. He stated that there are other ways like showing your
Driver’s license or Medicare card.
Director Francone echoed the other Directors’ sentiments that the Fare Study Task Force
has done an incredible, and probably thankless, job. She marvels at the team’s ability to
take the comments and weave them into the fare study and the presentation. She
thanked staff for their hard work. Director Francone asked if it was correct that 2% of
RTD’s total ridership used transfers. Lacy Bell explained that 2% of RTD riders take a one
way trip that requires a transfer.
Director Francone said that she really likes the Day Pass but asked for clarification
between the Day Pass and Airport fare. Lacy Bell said that essentially a rider that did not
have a monthly REX pass would need to purchase a REX Day Pass to get to the airport.

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

in having a certain percentage of our revenue come from fare boxes. She noted that when
RTD opens 5 new lines in 2016 that will represent a $5 billion capital improvement to our
transportation system. Director Folska called on our partners, like Mile High Connects, to
apply for grants that can help RTD fill the gap to offer a low income discounted fare.
Bruce Abel shared that many of the conversations with the Affordable Fare Task Force
have focused on ways that the non-profit community can help RTD with our revenue
stream; everyone involved is concerned about not just getting a grant that lasts one year
but coming up with a long term solution.

6.A

Director Hoy stated that he likes the Airport fare and REX Day Pass. He said he
appreciates staff restructuring the fare from DUS to US 36 and Sheridan. Director Hoy
asked why students at colleges that do not participate in CollegePasses do not qualify for
our discounted fare for students; currently this fare is only extended to students through
high school. He wonders if this is something that has been considered. Bruce Abel noted
that throughout his tenure at RTD people have made requests that college students be
able to qualify for the discounted student fare; however, when staff has evaluated the
revenue impacts of extending this discount to adults who are not at a school that
participates in the CollegePass, they have not seen a way to move in that direction.
Director Hoy wanted to confirm that RTD will not continue to give out a piece of paper for
transfers. He said he was very surprised when he saw transfers being proposed in the
presentation. He also asked for clarification on the single fare discount when paying.
Bruce Abel stated that transfers would only be done electronically. When someone taps
their SmartCard they can board another RTD vehicle for the next 2 hours and 59 minutes
without having to pay. Bruce Abel explained that customers paying for a single trip fare
would receive a $0.25 discount. Director Hoy noted that for those concerned about the
fare increase it is certainly smaller for those using SmartCards. Lacy Bell stated that it
would only be a $0.10 increase for Local fares.
Director Tobiassen thanked staff for their hard work on this project. He believes they have
put a lot of thought and energy into it. He agrees that the outreach and collection of data
has been very thorough. Director Tobiassen recognized that during his time on the RTD
Board there have been several hot button issues he has heard about, one of which being
transfers. He said that he is glad to see the paper transfers go away and believes most of
the drivers will too. He has heard that transfers create conflict and are widely abused;
implementing transfers through SmartCards will eliminate many of the issues drivers have
to deal with.
Director Tobiassen shared that he is very sympathetic to low income wage earners. He is
happy to see there is progress in our conversations with Mile High Connects to come up
with a program to address their concerns. Director Tobiassen pointed out that one area
that was not discussed was the Access-a-Ride fares and how in his opinion that will
impact the poorest of the poor. With Access-a-Ride fare being double the comparable
single boarding fare, an Access-a-Ride customer could go from spending $9 per day to
$10 per day. He said that when your income is only $728 per month that is a significant
increase. Director Tobiassen hopes the Affordable Fare Task Force will take Access-a-Ride
into consideration when developing a low income fare program.

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce Abel noted that having the Airport fare be equal to a REX Day Pass would also
benefit employees as they could use it to get to and from the airport for work.

Director Deadwyler added her heartfelt thanks to all the work that staff has done. She
recognizes that it was hard but the community can now say that we really heard them.
Director Deadwyler inquired if a Day Pass could be purchased for use on Access-a-Ride.
Under the proposed fare structure a local round trip would be going from $9.00 to
$10.40; Access-a-Ride users would appreciate being able to take multiple trips in a day for
the cost of one round trip. She stated that for those that do not have very much money
that is a large increase. She also asked if Access-a-Ride users had to pay an extra fee to
travel to the airport. She recently heard that the cost to go to the airport could be $20 to
$25 and expressed concern that the fare would only increase. Bruce Abel said that there
had been no conversation regarding the implementation of a day pass on Access-a-Ride.
Bruce Abel explained that the Access-a-Ride fare structure is 2x the comparable fixed
route fare, so under the proposed fare structure, an Access-a-Ride trip would cost $5.20 if
it was considered a local trip, $9.00 if it was considered a REX trip or $18.00 if it was
considered an Airport trip. Bruce Abel said that the current Access-a-Ride Airport fare is
$24.00 so it would actually cost less under the proposed fare structure.
Director Anderson said that she was quite proud of the work staff had done in taking that
much public input and incorporating it into a plan. She believes that RTD has a staff that
has risen to the challenge. Director Anderson acknowledged that she was not very happy
to see the transfers come back but believes staff has addressed this is a way she can live
with. She pointed out that Access-a-Ride is a hugely subsidized service. She feels that it
is time for organizations in the community to step up and help RTD better serve our low
income riders. Director Anderson stated that RTD cannot help them alone. She believes
that RTD and the community should engage our State Legislators to help us address those
in our society that are hurting the most.
Chair Sisk said that he is seeing a real evolution in the way in which staff has taken the
feedback from the community. He feels this has been such a positive process. Chair Sisk
read a letter from the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition expressing their support
of the modified proposal. They appreciate that RTD staff was willing to consider fare
scenarios outside of those initially brought forward for public comment and support the
concept of fare equity among FasTracks corridors with having the same Local and REX
fares for bus and light rail. Chair Sisk believes this letter is so significant as this is not
where we were two months ago. He thanked staff for not only being there, but listening.
He thinks we still have some work to do but believes that staff is moving forward in a very
positive way.
Director Archuleta asked how long the Day Pass was valid. Bruce Abel explained that
RTD’s service day ends at 2:59 a.m. so it would be valid from the time of issuance
through 2:59 a.m. the next morning.

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

Director Walker recognized that it is difficult to put a hard and fast line in place for fare
zones on the Light Rail. He stated that he is in support of eliminating rail zones altogether
because it is difficult to define and for riders to understand. Director Walker shared that a
recent report from the Brookings Institute showed that there has been a 98% increase in
persons living in poverty since 2000 with much of the increase occurring in the suburbs.
He said that is another reason he supports eliminating fare zones for rail; this gives access
to a reliable form of transportation from the suburbs to employment centers. Director
Walker emphasized Director Bagley’s point that today a low income discount fare of 50%
is relatively small but in 5 to 10 years that could really add up.
Director Solano shared his concern that many impoverished people are being pushed out of
the city and into the suburbs through gentrification. He is worried about the fares from his
area to Downtown being too expensive due to its large size.
Director Folska reiterated the idea that we need to be looking after the people in our
community who are the most vulnerable physically and financially. She said that people
who use Access-a-Ride do not love having to use that service. She believes most people
prefer to ride on a fixed route within their community. Director Folska stated that is it not
mandatory for RTD to increase to cost of Access-a-Ride just because the cost of a fixed
route ride increases. She thinks it seems unreasonable to consider raising rates on
Access-a-Ride at all.
Director Lubow supports Director Folska’s statement. She hopes that when staff works
with the Affordable Fare Task Force that Access-a-Ride fares can be addressed as well as
those riders are typically very low income. Director Lubow feels that not having the
passes addressed is a whole in the fare structure that the Board is being asked to approve.
She requested that staff have an update on the pass programs prior to the Board voting on
the new fare structure. Bruce Abel said that staff will have an update.

III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 7:04 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 28, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 14

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:29 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:21 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:16 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:17 PM
5:11 PM
4:40 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:03 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:11 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

4:58 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:28 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:17 PM
5:15 PM
Packet Pg. 15

6.B

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah
Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim
Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall,
Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger
Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. GM 2016 Tactical Plan from Strategic Planning Session
Interim General Manager Genova reminded the Board that on March 21, 2015 the
Board met with the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) at the annual Advance to
mutually agree on the top strategic goals for the agency in 2016. The three top
priorities that came out of the Advance were Fiscal Sustainability, Opening of Five
FasTracks Rail and BRT Corridors in 2016, and Technology. Interim General
Manager Genova said his goal for the evening was to review the highlights of his
tactical plan and receive input and feedback from the board. He explained that
after receiving feedback he would work with the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee to develop a more detailed action plan. He
noted that these strategic goals also drive the development of the budget for 2016.
Interim General Manager Genova introduced Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer,
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, and Rick Clarke,
Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, who he asked to be at the table for
questions. He reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available
in the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.
Interim General Manager Genova outlined the following items that would be his
focus:
 Strategic Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
o Increased Operations and Maintenance Costs
o Impact of New Fare Structure
o Affordable Fares
o Identification of New Revenue Sources
o Increase in Existing Revenue Streams
o Parking Revenue
Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lasater was absent.

6.B

Service Levels, Revenue Rates and Utilization of Unused Capacity
(Ridership)
o Avoiding “Mission Creep”
Strategic Goal #2 – Opening of Five FasTracks Rail and BRT Corridors in
2016
o Complete Projects On Time and Within Budget
o Complete Integrated Testing and Pre-revenue Testing
o Rail Activation
o Marketing/Special Events/Communication/Community Partnering
o Service Planning/Bus Operations/Integration
o Staffing, Internal and External
Strategic Goal #3 – Technology
o Security
o Private Partnering (Innovation)
o Customer Facing
o Prioritized Resources
o Enhanced Services
o Partnerships to Address:
 Last Mile
 Smart Technology/Smart Cards
 Integration and Advancement (Holistic Approach)
 Internal





Committee Chair James suggested that in relation to the Last Mile issue and
partnerships that staff look at those operating in the arena of transportation
demand management and our local jurisdictions.
Director Bagley shared that he read the full tactical plan submitted by Interim
General Manager Genova. He thinks that the meat put on the bones in the full plan
really helped to identify all the components that make up the highlights reviewed by
Interim General Manager Genova. He said that the GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee looks forward to working with Interim General Manager
Genova on further developing the tactical plan. The final plan must be completed in
time for the full Board to approve it at the July 2015 Board Meeting. He thanked
Interim General Manager Genova and his staff for their efforts.
Director Folska noted that there was a recent I-225 Line event that Interim General
Manager Genova was unable to attend but she wanted to let him know that at that
event she shared what a privilege it was for her to work with the other Board
members, staff, consultants, etc. She appreciates what Interim General Manager
Genova and staff are doing to move this agency forward. Director Folska said that
she has several focus areas that she wanted to comment on as follows:
 Wages – Director Folska recognized that while what Interim General
Manager Genova said about needing to increase wages is true, she also
hopes staff will maintain focus in the plan to eliminate redundancy.
Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

o








Pass Programs – Director Folska expressed her concern that when staff is
looking at an Affordable Fare Pass program they will do so without
evaluating the passes RTD currently offers. She pointed out that at CU
there are 105,000 students that pay $77 per semester for a CollegePass.
She wonders if there is some elasticity in that price point that could play a
role in assisting with the cost of an Affordable Fare Pass program.
Parking – Director Folska inquired if RTD was properly following our
unsolicited proposal process properly with regards to the proposal RTD
received regarding monetizing parking; it was her understanding that when
RTD receives an unsolicited proposal it would be taken out to an RFP rather
than staff just evaluating one. She recommended that staff read a book
called Sustainable Transportation by Jeffrey Tumlin as it will provide great
information when RTD looks at the real cost of parking to our communities.
Interim General Manager Genova explained that when RTD receives an
unsolicited proposal, the process is for staff to review it for merit prior to
issuing an RFP. If it is not determined to have merit than the process does
not go further. He explained that related to this unsolicited proposal staff
felt they needed to do further research before issuing an RFP so it will be
some time before it comes back to the Board.
Communication Plan for Events – Director Folska said she is looking forward
to see how this gets flushed out and a plan with defined details.
Technology Private Partnering – Director Folska hopes that RTD makes it a
requirement on the front end that applications developed for RTD are
accessible on the front end.

Director Menten inquired about the timeline staff anticipated in reviewing the
unsolicited proposal related to parking. Interim General Manager Genova explained
that staff was hoping to complete a detailed analysis this year. There is not a
schedule for when staff might bring it back to the Board for an RFP but will keep
the Board updated throughout the year.
Director Menten noted that the tactical plan referenced replacing the handheld
SmartCard readers in 2016. She wondered how many units we currently have and
what the costs would be to replace. She also asked if there were any alternatives
to handheld readers. Interim General Manager Genova commented that our
technology is very similar to that of other transit agencies that have similar
SmartCards and fare enforcement policies. He explained that our device serves
two functions: (1) provides a reading mechanism for the SmartCards and (2) fare
enforcement (i.e. produces citations, communications with database to determine
rider’s previous violations, etc). He said that having a dual function complicates the
devices we can use. Interim General Manager Genova stated that the devices now
are much less expensive than the originals purchased. He noted that there is the
option to use two devices as a fallback plan. He stated that staff will do whatever
is the most economic and cost effective.

Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.B

6.B

Director Deadwyler expressed concern over the service changes when the new
lines open. She reminded everyone of the issues that happened with the opening
of the W-Line. She recognized that there were a lot of key learnings but she wants
to make sure we do not take away service from our riders until we understand how
the new lines are operating.
Director Solano inquired if staff was planning on looking at the public or private
sector for partnerships to address the last mile issue. He wonders if an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) would be necessary for these partnerships.
Interim General Manager Genova stated that it could be either as staff will be
evaluating all options. He said that if the partner is a public partner like a city or
municipality we would need an IGA. If it was with a private party we would enter
into a contract with that entity.
Director Tobiassen commented that RTD needs to make sure any of our decisions
related to monetizing parking mesh with the jurisdiction where the parking is
located.
Director Archuleta suggested that as part of the marketing/special
events/communication plan staff looks to attend the various fairs within each
community. He said that he hears from his community that we are not
communicating with them and this might be a good way to improve that. Scott
Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, noted that staff does have
booths at various community fairs but welcomed any suggestions of community
events.
Committee Chair James pointed out that there are budget limitations that might
affect how many fairs staff is able to attend. Interim General Manager Genova
recognized that special events and public outreach is something included in the
budget.
Chair Sisk remembers the Board needing to approve additional funding after the
opening of the West Line to restore certain bus service that had previously been
Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler asked if Interim General Manager Genova had begun to put any
“meat on the bone” when it comes to looking at identifying new revenue sources.
She felt he skipped over that when going through the presentation. Interim General
Manager Genova apologized for missing that piece. He said that he is looking at
the following:
 Corporate Sponsorship and Naming Rights
 Monetizing Parking
 Evaluation of Pass Pricing
 Sale of Unused Assets
 Developing Shared Facilities
 Increasing Sales Tax Revenue through Audits and Sales and Use Tax Parity

6.B

Director Francone thanked Interim General Manager Genova and staff for putting
together such a comprehensive first effort. She said that when she speaks with
people in her District, even though none of the openings are in her area people are
quite proud of RTD’s accomplishments. She wondered how staff defines
successes as it relates to marketing and special events. Scott Reed said it really
depends on the goal of the event. He stated that it is also a balancing act between
focusing on each individual opening while talking about FasTracks as a whole and
base operations; things like community involvement and earned media are good
indications if something was successful, among other things.
Director Solano shared that he had a constituent call him about a FasTracks booth
that was going to be at a fair in Thornton. The constituent wondered why it was a
FasTracks booth and not an RTD booth. Director Solano said he did not know what
to tell the constituent. Scott Reed commented that this ties back to what he said
before about a balancing act between FasTracks and operations. At the fair in
Thornton the majority of questions are about the FasTracks project; however, there
is also information included about all of RTD’s service. Scott Reed pointed out that
the RTD logo is also incorporated in all FasTracks promotion.
Committee Chair James said it was worth noting that RTD is on the threshold of
five openings. It is easy for those not involved to think that a line opens and then
we move on; however, this organization is all moving parts and those parts are
going to be moving very rapidly next year.

C. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

D. Updates

• RTD Best Practices
John Elias, Senior Policy Analyst and District Historian, reviewed a Power
Point presentation with the Board that is available in the May 12, 2015
Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet. He explained that
the purposes of the Best Practices were knowledge sharing to new
employees, promoting collaboration at RTD, and industry-wide knowledge
sharing. He said that the goal is for this information to be valuable to RTD
board members, executives, staff, and citizens as well as other transit
agencies. John Elias stated that this was an extensive process in which he

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

eliminated. He is hoping that staff is anticipating this better and establishing a
budget in advance of opening the Eagle project. He said that he is very excited
about pursuing applications to help passengers receive real-time arrival and
departure information. He thinks it will be very exciting to have that technology
available. He challenged staff to think broadly when it comes to technology
applications.

6.B

and his colleague, Sarah Camacho, Planning Technical Communication
Specialist, met with every department in the agency.

Director Folska shared that one of the founding members of RTD, Bert
Melcher, lived in her District. She said that he has boxes and boxes of
history pertaining to RTD. Director Folska suggested that John Elias and
Sarah Camacho meet with him. John Elias noted that he had just recently
been in contact with Mr. Melcher. He stated that they had developed a
retention policy that Sarah Camacho was working to implement. Sarah
Camacho explained that she had been working with the State Archive to
allow RTD to transfer materials to them. They have the ability to provide
researchers which RTD does not have the budget for staff to do this in
house. She indicated that the State Archive actually has Mr. Melcher’s
collection. Director Folska encouraged staff to look at having some of Mr.
Melcher’s artifacts on display. She thought that would be a very neat thing
to see.
Director Folska inquired if the Board Office was included as part of the
process. John Elias stated that they were not. Director Folska encouraged
him to revisit the Best Practices to include the Board Office. She thinks the
Board Office should always be included when a project is encompassing
every department in the agency. The Board Office has a lot of best
practices that have been implemented for things like the New Board Member
Orientation. John Elias said the hope is that this is a real living document
similar to a Wiki where people can submit their edits. This is just the first
salvo and hopefully the Best Practices just continue to incorporate more
information.
Director Solano asked what staff meant by breaking down silos. John Elias
explained that sometimes collaboration or communication between
departments can be difficult as people get so mission focused. The goal is
to foster a feeling of one agency instead of feeling divided by departments.
Director Solano pointed out that it is also important to bring outside
influence to add to the conversation to avoid a group think mentality.
Director Francone echoed Director Folska’s comment about including the
Board Office in the process. She said that the orientation she recently
completed was awesome in its magnitude. Director Francone thinks that
there is really some value there for the rest of the agency. She wondered
how large the Best Practices document is. John Elias stated that the print
Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked when John Elias started at RTD and what was his
original position. John Elias said that he started in November, 2013 as the
District Historian. Director Folska commented that she had yet to see any of
his work and asked if he could provide her with some samples.

6.B

version is 135 pages. There is also a PDF version that is accessible as well
as navigable.
Director Menten stated that in reviewing the presentation she did not see a
lot of benefit to this project so she is looking forward to reading the
complete document. She asked staff to provide her a complete cost for this
project, including things like salaries, benefits, etc.
Committee Chair James thanked staff for their presentation.

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development and Planning
Coordination, introduced the team that is conducting RTD’s Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) Assessment. The team is comprised of GB Arrington of
GM Place Making, Lorna Moritz of TRA and Arleen Taniwaki of ArLand. Bill
Sirois asked GB Arrington to review the Power Point presentation included in
the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.
GB Arrington noted that this is the first of three briefings that he and his
team will do with the Board. The team are national experts in TOD while
also have a deep local TOD knowledge. GM Arrington said that they would
begin their assessment with the following approach:
 Step 1: How is RTD Doing Relative To:
o The opportunity
o The market
o Expectations (yours & your partners)
 Step 2: Evaluation Lens
o National Best Practice – How does RTD stack-up
o 360 review of RTD TOD projects
o Feedback from partners
 Step 3: Recommendations for Moving Forward:
o What’s working well
o What to borrow (tools, policies, structure)
o What needs tweaking
GB Arrington stated that there were several key issues that they would be
looking at: (1) Performance, (2) Evolving Landscape, (3) Time & Uncertainty,
(4) Getting a “Fair” Return and (5) How to Define RTD TOD Success.
Director Lubow expressed her excitement for this project. She believes this
is such an apt time to be looking at this as we are right in the middle of
FasTracks. Director Lubow looks forward to seeing the team’s assessment.
Director Folska stated that she is so excited to be working with this team
and cannot wait to see their recommendations. She is excited to see what
other agencies are doing. She said that as it relates to the tactical plan
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• RTD TOD Assessment

6.B

Director Bagley noted that the whole issue of TOD is very interesting. He
thinks RTD has taken some great steps under the Transit Oriented
Communities (TOC) division. Director Bagley recognized that RTD is a
creature of the State and as such, RTD has some rather significant
constraints as to what we can do related to development. RTD cannot
acquire properties for TOD like some other jurisdiction can. He reiterated
that RTD cannot make land use decisions; that is up to our local partners.
He said that what RTD can do is facilitate cooperation and collaboration
similar to what was done in Arvada. He stated that the Board needs to
understand its role in the TOD process.
GB Arrington shared that part of their process is to begin an inventory of the
tools that RTD’s peer agencies use and how those have impacted their
ability to shape development. He said that sometimes he has recommended
changes in legislation to improve the TOD process but he does not yet know
if that will be applicable here. Director Bagley noted that requesting
alterations to current legislature is a potential opportunity; however, the
Board needs to keep in mind the context within which RTD operates today
as legislature does not change overnight.
Committee Chair James inquired if it was within the scope of work for the
TOD assessment to look at the legal and political environment within which
RTD operates and identify opportunities for improved legislation. GB
Arrington said it was a grey area within the scope; the goal of the project is
to look at our regulations, look at industry best practices, and then look at
what RTD has and has not been able to accomplish and develop a series of
recommendations. GB Arrington noted that the project would be limited by
budget constraints.
Director Walker wondered what entities would be included in the external
assessment. Arleen Taniwaki said that they would be taking to entities
involved with TOD in Arvada, the Alameda Stations, Sheridan Station,
Lakewood, etc. The goal is to talk not only to developers but really anyone
involved (i.e. city agencies, attorneys, developers, transportation planners,
etc). Bill Sirois commented that staff really likes that this assessment is
trying to get a 360 review.
Director Walker commented that in the recent Denver elections there were
several people who were not reelected because they had a strong prodevelopment stance. He said this shows how ever changing the political
landscape can be as sometimes the population is pro-development and
sometimes they are against.
Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

reviewed by Interim General Manager Genova, she hopes that we can
generate some income streams in perpetuity for RTD through development
and leasing options.

Director Anderson shared that she recently attended a presentation by CDOT
Executive Director Shailen Bhatt about the US36 project. She thinks his
message is very important for everyone on the Board to hear which is that
these large scale projects cannot happen without proper long-term planning.
She stated that for the past 30 years the City of Arvada has worked hard to
make sure they got public transportation as well as TOD. It takes a lot of
time, planning and long term dedication because these changes do not
happen overnight. She thanked GB Arrington and his team for all the work
they have done for TOD. GB Arrington seconded Director Anderson’s
comment about the City of Arvada. He has had a lot of clients but few that
have had the passion, commitment, and breadth of support that the City of
Arvada has; if he was doing a best practices for cities they would be at the
top of his list.
Director Solano asked if the team had talked to the Planners for the City of
Commerce City. He represents the area around 70th and Colorado. He
wondered if perhaps GB Arrington or his team might have some words of
wisdom for TOD in this area. Director Solano expressed concern with the
construction defect bill failing and the ability to build affordable housing as
there are a lot of low income people in the area. Bill Sirois said that staff
has been actively involved with Commerce City and other communities along
the North Metro Line as it relates to planning efforts for TOD. He said that
TOD does not usually happen until construction begins and the developers
begin to get excited. Bill Sirois noted that Adams County is very active in
looking at ways to build more affordable housing and will continue to
evaluate opportunities around the stations.
Director Francone asked how the TOD assessment might evaluate TOD in an
area like her District where there is no rail. She wonders if the assessment
will go beyond just looking at rail and perhaps look at locations with bus
service. Bill Sirois stated that the assessment would include all forms of
transit. Examples of TOD happening without rail are already happening
along the US36 Corridor. He recognized that while this is not District N the
lessons learned will be applicable to any site with transit.
Director Francone suggested that any potential changes in legislation that
RTD pursues happen in conjunction with our Government Relations
department and consultants.
Director Anderson wondered if the team had ever worked with an
unincorporated area before as it relates to TOD. GB Arrington said that he
has worked with every flavor of government. It is just about looking at the
tools, market, policies, transit service, etc. Bill Sirois noted that there have
been several unincorporated areas such as Adams and Douglas County that
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.B

6.B

have been active with TOD planning along various lines. He noted that he
has not seen a lot of effort from Jeffco in this area.

Director Folska commented that you do not need transit for a community to
be pedestrian oriented. She asked if GB Arrington could give an example of
a remarkable TOD site in Los Angeles. GB Arrington said a good example is
Holly Street in Pasadena where an apartment was built with the station
underneath. He noted that California is very actively involved in funding
TOD.
Committee Chair James thanked everyone for their work on TOD. He looks
forward to working together on this assessment. He echoed Director
Folska’s sentiments that perhaps these should not be called transit oriented
but pedestrian oriented communities. He believes this is an opportunity for
our agency to contribute to the livability of our community.

E. Other Matters
Henry Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, thought it was important to
provide the Board with a follow-up of the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction. He said
that he and his team went through the files related to this project, even pulling
information from the State Archives. He shared that they found the original
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and agreement with UMTA to understand
where the project started. He offered to review this information one-on-one for any
Director that was interested.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that the FTA was open to the possibility of using
concrete or some other material in place of granite but we will need to go through a
modified Environmental Impact process that will take approximately eight months
to one year. The City and Downtown Denver Partnership are supportive of using
concrete for the transit lanes. He shared that concrete will be tested at Civic
Center in the upcoming weeks so people can see how it will look.
Henry Stopplecamp explained that staff is holding off on issuing an RFP for the
transitway portion of the project. An RFP has been issued for sidewalk
improvements, utilities upgrades, bulb outs, etc. The hope is to come back to the
Planning and Development Committee June 2, 2015 with a recommendation to
award a contract in the June/July timeframe. Henry Stopplecamp noted that staff
still anticipates spending approximately $1 million on maintenance but this could be
higher due to all the rain.

Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

GB Arrington shared that in many communities such as Los Angeles, the
transit agencies are also contributing to the costs of TOD which helps make
it a priority. He does not see RTD having any involvement of that magnitude
in TOD going forward.

6.B

Committee Chair James inquired as to a potential cost increase by segmenting
procurement between the sidewalks and transitway. Henry Stopplecamp stated
that there should not be too much of an increase. There may be an increase in
costs for traffic control but in terms of the order of magnitude it is less than 1%.

Director Anderson wondered if we would need to do a completely new EIS or if we
could just do an Environmental Assessment (EA). Henry Stopplecamp explained
that we would be going through a modified EIS. Bill Van Meter said that further
conversations would be needed but staff does not expect that a major EA will be
required. Director Anderson asked staff to provide information on any additional
costs associated with this.
Director Anderson remembers some information that was handed out by Director
Archuleta that indicated the City would have extra costs due to the Board
amending the IGA between RTD and the City for the 16th Street Mall Intersection
Improvements. She also expressed concern about the City being able to adequately
police the contractor. Henry Stopplecamp stated that he did not know what
additional costs there might be for the City. He said the issue was trying to ensure
that payments happen to the contractor in a timely manner. The city has set up a
task force to tie in with RTD’s evaluation team to help with the issue. He noted
that as far as the contractor building an adequate structure there is no reason why
RTD cannot work with the City to ensure that is taken care of. RTD staff would
not sign off on any invoices for substandard work.
Director Lubow asked for clarification about RTD’s grant application. It is her
understanding that we applied for a grant to reconstruct part of the mall with
granite pavers but we have now gone back asking if we can do something else.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that was correct. When RTD originally applied for the
grant it was to reconstruct a portion of the mall transitway with granite pavers. He
shared that the FTA is willing to support a change if we can demonstrate that it
makes more sense. He believes that there are still challenges but it is worthwhile
to pursue as a cheaper material like concrete will allow us to get more blocks done
with lower annual maintenance costs.
Director Lubow inquired if it was true that the design was supposed to look like a
serpent. She wondered if we could do the same appearance in concrete. Henry
Stopplecamp said that if you look at it from above it is supposed to represent a
diamondback rattlesnake. He stated the same design could be achieved with
concrete.
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair James asked if conversations had been started with the historic
preservation community. Henry Stopplecamp said that the City has started the
conversations with Historic Denver and the Historic Society. He thinks it will be an
uphill battle but unfortunately the mall is just not as functional as it should be. He
hopes that we can come to a resolution that makes all parties happy.

6.B

Director Solano asked who was responsible for maintaining the mall currently.
Henry Stopplecamp explained that RTD is responsible for maintaining the
transitway, which we do through a third-party contractor, Gallegos Corp. Director
Solano wondered if we would still need a third-party if the FTA approved the
concrete pavers. Henry Stopplecamp stated that there would still be maintenance
required for the transitway, it would just depend on how much.

Director Menten said it was her understanding that if the transitway was concrete
we would have maintenance costs of about $5K instead of $1 million. She inquired
as to what entities my not be in support of concrete. Henry Stopplecamp shared
that Historic Denver and the State Historic Preservation office would be the
organizations having the most opposition. He said he was pleasantly surprised with
the Downtown Denver Partnership’s support of doing something different.
Chair Sisk indicated that the Board Office conducted a webinar last week for APTA
on Board Member Orientation and Onboarding. He said that both he and Director
Francone participated as well. He thanked the Board Office staff, but especially
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board, for all their efforts. He shared that it
was listened to by a record number of APTA members.

F. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska thought she heard Henry Stopplecamp mention that the 16th Street
Mall had not yet been designated a historic landmark. Henry Stopplecamp stated
that is what he was told by the City of Denver.

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

7:58 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:55 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

7:52 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:57 PM
7:51 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:55 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

7:55 PM
7:53 PM
Packet Pg. 28

6.C

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:53 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah
Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim
Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall,
Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger
Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter
into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option
(June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001,
at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Francone seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Chair Folska thanked Brandeberry~McKenna for
their superb job. She noted that the firm is always responsive
to all the Directors. Committee Chair Folska expressed how
impressed she is with the firm’s professionalism.
Director Tobiassen said that he would write the contract just
for Megan Wagner, Director of Client Services for
Brandeberry~McKenna. He thanked the firm for their hard
work. Director Tobiassen expressed his full support of this
contract.

Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson and Director Lasater were absent.

6.C

Director Francone commended the firm for their great work.
She said that as a political geek she appreciates their efforts.

Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates updated the Directors on the Denver
municipal elections. He noted that Mayor Hancock’s win was not a surprise.
The election of Timothy O’Brien as City Auditor was surprising. He noted
that a few Denver District elections will go to runoff elections on June 2nd
since no candidate received a 50% plus 1 vote.
He informed the Directors that the Metro Transportation Dialogue meeting
will be on May 21, 2015. He said he is trying to find his way to that
meeting as it seems that no one from RTD will be present.
Roger Sherman said that the summer Colorado Counties Inc. Conference will
be held in Keystone from June 1-3. The summer Colorado Municipal League
Conference will be in Breckenridge from June 16-19. He mentioned that the
search for RTD’s General Manager remains a “top of mind” issue to the City
and County of Denver as well as other stakeholders.
Committee Chair Folska asked Roger Sherman to send the Directors the
conference schedules.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry thanked the Directors on behalf of Julie McKenna and
the rest of the firm’s staff for the opportunity to continue to represent RTD
at the State Legislature.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that the legislative session wrapped up. She
pointed out that during the last days of the session compromise and
bipartisanship were key to passing legislation. She explained that SB18272, Authorize New Transportation Anticipation Notes (Trans bonds) failed
because it was introduced late without any compromise or bipartisanship.
She highlighted SB221 on Public Transit Officers as an example to
Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tina Francone, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Gary Lasater

6.C

bipartisanship. Jenifer Brandeberry commented on the great work done for
the bill by John Tarbert, Acting Assistant General Manager for Safety,
Security & Facilities.

Julie McKenna addressed HB15-1098, Red Light Camera, requiring voter
approval to use AVI technology. Another bill would likely eliminate the use
of AVI technology. It is likely that Governor Hickenlooper would veto these
bills since he has put out correspondence to the legislature explaining his
view of local jurisdiction on this matter.
Jenifer Brandeberry mentioned that they did a tour of the East Line with the
Senate Transportation Committee. She noted that the tour was a great way
of showing how the rail lines really affect the whole state. She pointed out
that the legislators have been paying attention to the fare study and have
been impressed with the community outreach.
Committee Chair Folska said she was thrilled that the rest of the State can
see the value RTD provides. She noted that the new CDOT Bustang,
scheduled to start July 13, 2015, will use Denver Union Station as its
terminal.
Director Bagley noted that issues related to SB15-177 has been taken up by
at least three local governments: Lakewood, Lone Tree, and Littleton. He
pointed out that he testified during the Littleton hearings. He foresees other
metro communities adopting local legislation and perhaps forcing the state
legislators to deal with this subject at a state level.
Director Walker pointed out Aspen’s referendum requiring voter approval of
land use variances for commercial development. He said that there are
similar items in Boulder. He wondered if there are similar items around the
state. Jenifer Brandeberry replied that land use is always top of the line at
the legislature. She noted that Speaker Hullinghorst has a passion on
reforming the use of tax increment financing for development. Local
governments have opposed the changes Speaker Hullinghorst has been
proposing. Jenifer Brandeberry said that there are conversations on the
state level but not at par with the vote in Aspen.

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Julie McKenna explained that SB15-177 HOA Construction Defect Lawsuit
Approval Times, passed the Senate but was defeated at the House of
Representatives. She noted this was due to the House Speaker, Hon.
Dickey Hullinghorst, being opposed to the legislation. She expects the
subject to be brought up during the next session as there is interest on the
matter.

6.C

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

Mike Dino reminded the Directors that MAP-21 Reauthorization expires on
May 31, 2015. Next week will be the last week for Congress to decide on
the future. He said that of the two options available, a 2 month extension
or a 7 month extension, Congress seems to be leaning towards the 7 month
extension. Mike Dino noted that one of the challenges will be to figure out
funding for the Highway Trust Fund. He said that no funding short falls are
anticipated for current Full Funding Grant Agreements.
Mike Dino noted that the House Appropriators released the Fiscal Year 2016
spending bill. In it the New Start Funding has been cut by about $200
million. This would affect FFGAs; however the house is usually the low
mark and the Senate has not yet released their version.
Director Lubow mentioned that she was under the impression that the
Southeast extension FFGA was included in the President’s budget. She
wondered if the House is proposing to fund less of the FFGA. Mike Dino
replied that is possible. He said that the markup for this bill is tomorrow,
May 20. He stated that as nice as it is to see an item in the President’s
budget, Congress does not always follow that budget. Sherry Ellebracht,
Government Relations Officer, pointed out that the House Appropriations is
still in the subcommittee. This means it still has to go through the full
House. She noted that the Senate will also put together the Senate
Appropriation for the budget, indicating that the FFGA final amount has still
a long way to go.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 8:17 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs referred the Directors to the update
included in the Government Relations Committee meeting agenda packet for
May 12, 2015. The document includes updates on the MAP-21
Reauthorization, Transportation –HUD Appropriation Bill, and Recent Federal
Actions.

6.D

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

8:18 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:19 PM
8:19 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:18 PM
8:19 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

8:19 PM
8:20 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:19 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:18 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:18 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

8:19 PM

Packet Pg. 33

6.D

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:19 PM
8:19 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah
Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim
Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan
Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall,
Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger
Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner

B. CAC Update
Committee Chair Hoy recognized Bob Rizzuto, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)
Co-Chair, and applauded him for his dedication in staying so late.
Bob Rizzuto thanked the Board for the opportunity to present to them this evening.
He noted that this is his 6th year on the CAC. He has seen a lot of changes and it
has been very fun to be part of the process. He also thanked the Directors for
participating in the two-on-one meetings; the CAC feels they are so rewarding and
a great opportunity to get to know the Directors better. Bob Rizzuto said that a
common thread within those discussions was “what’s next” for the CAC as RTD
transitions from construction and planning to operations. Other common themes
were engaging the CAC earlier as policy recommendations are begin developed by
staff, participating in more outside events and focus their quarterly meetings more
broadly to address the community interests better. He stated that the committee
also hopes the Board will utilize the CAC in a meaningful way during the General
Manager Executive Search process.

C. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

D. Updates

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, introduced
Greg Straight, Eagle P3 Project Director, to the Board. He said that while
the Board has met Greg previously, this is the first time he will be presenting

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lasater was absent and Director Anderson left prior to the start of the meeting.

6.D

to them as the overall Project Director for Eagle P3. Rick Clarke noted that
Greg Straight has been on the Eagle project since day one; Greg Straight has
been given an awesome responsibility but he is a true leader that will bring
this project home on-time and on-budget.

Greg Straight pointed out that many people will inquire as to why testing
needs to be for a full year. He explained that each commuter rail car needs
1,000 miles of “burn-in” before revenue service as well as each operator
needing approximately 160 hours of “throttle time” (operating the car) along
the alignment they will work before revenue service can begin.
Greg Straight recognized the Public Information team for their amazing
efforts on the safety outreach program. Approximately 15,000 students
close to the East Line received safety brochures, door hangers were
distributed to 20,000 residences along the line in addition to numerous
community and stakeholder meetings. He stated that the same outreach
plan for the Gold Line will begin this fall. Greg Straight noted that the FTA
Project Management Oversight praised the outreach plan during staff
interviews and is in full support of the plan for other lines.
Greg Straight explained that RTD is assisting local agencies with the
issuance of the letter of intent for quiet zones. He said that while
stakeholders have requested that the Quiet Zones be established prior to
revenue service, it cannot be guaranteed. RTD and Denver Transit
Operators (DTO) are working to fulfill that request.
Greg Straight said that public tours would be available for all rail lines
through October as well as the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. He
encouraged the Directors to get the word out to their constituents to attend.
Director Folska expressed her appreciation for the PI team as well. She
wondered how the project was coming with regards to Positive Train Control
(PTC). Greg Straight stated that PTC has been incorporated into the project
from the beginning. He has every reason to believe that it will be up and
operational for revenue service as there have been no indications of fatal
flaws.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Greg Straight reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the May 12, 2015 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet. He stated that design, construction and systems are proceeding
very quickly and on schedule for revenue service in 2016. He said that 20
commuter rail vehicles have already been received and four are in-route. He
expects all 66 will arrive by the end of the year.

6.D

Director Menten commented that on the West Line the issue of noise is not
just related to horns; it is also about the volume and frequency of the stop
announcements. She said she was not sure if that might also apply for the
Eagle Project but was something to keep in mind. She stated that there was
also a crossing along the West Line made a Quiet Zone after the fact. She
wondered how many at grade crossings there were throughout the Eagle
project, how many had requested to be Quiet Zones, and what the cost
would be to make one of these crossings a Quiet Zone after the fact. Greg
Straight stated that there were 40 at grade crossings, all of which had
requested to be Quiet Zones. He said that while the costs to make a
crossing eligible to be a Quiet Zone could be significant, most of these cost
would occur anyway to ensure safety. Interim General Manager Genova
pointed out that there is a big difference between the West Line and Eagle
Project as commuter rail is regulated by the Federal Railroad Administration
which means there are many more regulations.
Director Menten inquired how complaints would be handled since the lines
would be operated by DTO. She asked if it would work the same way as it
does currently with the contractors for our bus service. Greg Straight stated
that the complaint process would work the same; complaints would be
routed through RTD with RTD evaluating the complaint and monitoring the
resolution. He said that complaints are factored into DTO’s monthly
payment so they are highly incentivized to provide a high level of customer
service.
Director Deadwyler expressed her excitement at watching the progress
throughout her District; however, she said that she has yet to see any
vehicles operating along the line and she travels along it on a daily basis.
She wondered if perhaps there was a specific time she needed to be
watching as she would love to see one. Greg Straight explained that
currently the only portion of the track certified for testing was from DIA to
40th and Airport so they are not going far enough south yet for her to see
them.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the progress on the stations. Greg
Straight stated that the team had been focused on the civil improvements
and getting the rail line up for testing. He said the stations are progressing
well and people should really start to see progress now that the cars are
being tested.
Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director James inquired if the “burn-in” miles for each rail car and “throttle
time” for each operator would be predominately on the East Line. Greg
Straight said that the majority of vehicle miles would be on the East Line
since it was ready first; however, operators need to have hours along the
alignment they will be working, so that will need to be on all rail lines.

6.D

Director Tobiassen shared that many in his community heard that the freight
train operators would blow their horns whether or not a crossing was
designated a Quiet Zone. Rick Clarke noted that if it is a Quiet Crossing all
rail road companies recognize the Quiet Zone; however, if a train engineer
sees a potential incident they have discretion to use the horn.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked staff for a great presentation.

E. Other Matters
Director Francone shared that she and Director Lubow toured Boulder Junction
recently. She said it was fabulous to see the improvements that have been made.
She stated that Boulder Junction would be very excited if other Board members
wanted to go on a tour.
Director Deadwyler invited the entire Board to the annual Juneteenth Festival.
There will be entertainment and speakers that will really be promoting RTD. It is on
June 20th from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the Historic Five Points Neighborhood.

F. Next Meeting Date - June 2, 2015
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 8:57 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 12, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler noted that she gets a lot of complaints about noise from
certain communities but our trains are not even running through those areas.
She said it is important for people to understand that it is not just RTD that
will be operating trains. Greg Straight explained that RTD designating Quiet
Zones will be another benefit to the community; since we have a shared
alignment with the rail roads the whole crossing will be a Quiet Zone.

6.E

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:27 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

4:54 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:12 PM
5:30 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:12 PM
5:13 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:31 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:41 PM

Packet Pg. 38

6.E

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:21 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lee Cryer, Heather Deckard, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Ann Marie
Isaac-Heslop, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah
Menenez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Sue Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Steve Scholz, Cal
Shankster, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Diana Aqra, Karen Carr, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Kathleen Rosewater
Cunningham, Mary Durant, Tom Grushka, Felicia Gurule, Sherman
Hamilton, Audrey Haynes, Maricruz Herrera, Eugene Howard, Haya
Ibrahim, Jaime Lewis, Matt Marino, Erin Mooney, Kent Moorman,
Elizabeth Murphy, Joel Noble, Hanni Raley, Miguel Angel Reyes,
Eugenio Rodarte, LaSheita Sayer, Kenny Shepard, Joe Thomas, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villarreal, Cheryl Wallace, Dace
West, Monte Whaley, Zoe Williams

B. Recommended Actions

• Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited
financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared
by Staff and audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Cheryl
Wallace and Matthew Marino of RubinBrown, RTD’s External
Auditors. She said that they would review the ViewPoints
presentation included in the May 19, 2015 Financial

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Sisk was absent. Director Solano arrived late.

6.E

Cheryl Wallace explained that the ViewPoints contains the
required communication that RubinBrown must provide to
every governing body when they conduct an audit. She said
that the objective of RubinBrown’s engagement was to
conduct an Independent Auditors’ Report on RTD’s Financial
Statements. She noted that the audit deliverables that would
be provided to the Board are Auditor Communications,
Required Communication of any Internal Control Matters and
Best Practice and Value-Added Recommendations.
Cheryl Wallace highlighted that RubinBrown is issuing an
unmodified opinion on RTD’s financial statements.
Additionally, RTD engaged RubinBrown to a report on RTD
agreed-upon procedures reports regarding the National Transit
Database reporting and the RTD General Manager Contract.
Rubin Brown is in the process of issuing a report on RTD’s
internal controls over federal reporting and compliance in
accordance with OMB Circular A-133.
Cheryl Wallace stated that RubinBrown is also required to
disclose their findings on several key areas as follows:
 Is the information contained in any other documents? –
None that RubinBrown is aware of.
 Were audit services planned and scoped? – Yes, this
was done in a letter dated September 22, 2014.
 Were there any changes in the qualitative or
quantitative aspects of RTD’s accounting practices? –
No, RTD has no changes.
 Does RTD have any judgements or estimates in the
financial statements? Yes, RTD estimates depreciation
because we have capital assets but Cheryl Wallace
stated that is normal. Staff also estimates the
allowance for bad debt and the net pension obligation.
 Are the financial statement disclosures clear and
concise? – Yes, they are.
 Were there any difficulties encountered in the audit? –
There were none.
 Were there any adjustments to the financial records? –
No, there were no adjustments. This is important
because as the Board receives interim financial

Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet and then
take questions.

6.E





Cheryl Wallace highlighted that there was one past
adjustment. It came to RubinBrown’s attention that there is a
possible settlement regarding a litigation claim. It is an
estimate that is not recorded and should not be recorded but
they wanted the Board to be aware it is something that is out
there.
Cheryl Wallace reminded the Board that as part of their audit
they review RTD’s federal awards for compliance and internal
controls. RTD has received a Transportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act Loan (TIFIA). She said that within
the TIFIA documents one of the requirements that RubinBrown
looks at is called period of availability. She explained that
typically with every grant agreement there is a period of time
when there can be reimbursement for costs incurred. She
stated that buried within the TIFIA loan agreement it was
specified that RTD could be reimbursed for eligible project
costs for work performed after November 6, 2009. RTD had
submitted reimbursement requests that included expenditures
outside of the period of availability. Cheryl Wallace explained
that RTD was able to identify other eligible project costs that
met the period of availability and we are in the process of
amending the related reimbursement requests. She noted that
TIFIA is a very unique loan agreement and not a federal
funding arrangement that RTD had encountered previously;
therefore the loan program reimbursements were not subjected
to the same internal controls as federally funded
reimbursement grants. RubinBrown recommends that the RTD
Grant Accountant prepare all reimbursement requests for all
federal funds including both grant and federal loan programs
going forward.
Cheryl Wallace indicated that in last year’s audit RubinBrown
had some suggestions related to IT Governance. She said the
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



information that is indicative of what the year-end will
look like.
Were there any disagreements with management? –
No, there were none.
Did management sign a representation letter? – Yes, it
was included in the back of the ViewPoints information.
Were consultations with other independent accountants
needed? – No, they were not.
Were there any other audit findings or issues? – No,
there were none.

6.E

Cheryl Wallace pointed out that the new Governmental
Accounting Standards Board reporting requirements will be
implemented in 2015. This means that there will be changes
in the liability for the pension gets recorded on the financial
statements. There will also be additional disclosures,
supplementary information, etc. required as part of the
reporting requirements.
Cheryl Wallace commented that there have been some
changes related to Federal Awards. She said this is a hot
topic in the federal awards arena but the RTD staff has been
well educated as it relates to these changes. She mentioned
these changes effect things like disposition of equipment
purchased with federal funds and indirect cost rates, among
many others. She said that those most relevant to the District
have been highlighted in the ViewPoints.
Director Folska thanked Cheryl Wallace for a great
presentation. She wondered if RTD would need to continue to
go through an auction to dispose of property that was
purchased through a federal award. Cheryl Wallace stated
that there would still be a need to go through auction; the
changes relate more to an agency like RTD possibly needing
approval to dispose of property purchased with federal funds.
Director Menten asked if it was possible to get more detail on
the possible settlement referenced by Cheryl Wallace. Cheryl
Wallace stated that it was related to a possible settlement
with Denver International Airport.
Committee Chair Tobiassen encouraged the Directors to reach
out to Heather Copp should any additional questions arise
before the Board meeting.

Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

team was very happy to see that this year the RTD staff had a
plan in place to address those suggestions. She recognized
that this will take place over a period of time but staff has
done a good job addressing the suggestions so far.

6.E

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp explained that this action was to add her as the
CFO and David Genova as the General Manager to the Bank
Account Signature Authorization Agreement.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• First Quarter 2015 Investment Report
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, stated that as
has been the case recently there has not been much change in the
investment performance. Interest rates remain low and RTD continues to
perform within the Board approved Investment Policy Benchmarks. He said
he would be happy to answer any questions.
There were no questions from the Board.

Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer

6.E

Assumptions
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available in the
May 19, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet. She noted that this is the first time staff has included a draft of the
cash flow in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). She reminded the Board that
the components of the SBP are:
 SBP includes only service and projects funded from the Base System
0.6% sales and use tax and FasTracks operations activity (West Line,
DUS Bus Concourse, Free MetroRide, I-225 Rail Line, North Metro)
allocated to FasTracks funded by 0.4% tax
 FasTracks expense and projects (non-operations) are included
separately in the FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation (APE) financial
plan
The parameters of the SBP are:
 Fiscal management, including requirements to operate per specified
performance measures, strategic goals for the General Manager and
maintain a balanced budget
 Continued development of Board-appropriated fund and capital
replacement fund
 Continued implementation of Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations and Board priorities
 Optimization of service levels for bus and light rail system
 Baseline for the SBP is the 2015 Amended Budget
 Fuel lock for budget certainty in 2016
 State of Good Repair of facilities and equipment
 Prioritization of capital and expense projects
 Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated costs through 2017 then
escalated at Consumer Price Index
 Planned fleet expansion/replacement and building construction with
Certificate of Participation financing and associated debt service
Jannette Scarpino noted in review of the Cash Flow there is a $26 million
funding gap in 2016. She explained that staff expects to resolve this gap by
deferring certain projects into 2017 and 2018. She pointed out that our
fund balance goal is reached in 2018 in this initial draft but this goal will
probably be pushed back due to the project deferrals.
Director Menten inquired when the Board would receive a list of the deferred
projects. She wondered if it would be a complete list of requested projects
with prioritization or just the deferred projects. Jannette Scarpino stated
that a full list of projects would be provided with the final SBP; however,

Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Review of 2016-2021 SBP Development Process and 2016 Budget

6.E

Director Hoy indicated that on the pie chart that outlines RTD’s Base Uses of
Funds there is a segment for interest expense and debt payments. He asked
for confirmation that the interest expense is RTD’s interest payment and
that the debt payments goes to RTD’s principal. He wondered if it was
correct that RTD was paying an aggregate 4.0% interest rate on our debt.
Janette Scarpino said it was correct that the debt payments goes to pay
down our principal while the interest expense pays for the cost of our
interest; however, the interest expense equals 4% of the total available
funds, not a 4.0% interest rate.
Director Hoy wondered if our percentage of interest expense was
comparable to typical government agencies. Jannette Scarpino stated that
staff had not done any comparisons to our peer groups but it was something
they could look at.
Director Folska asked Jannette Scarpino for examples of what might make
up the other income line item on the Cash Flow. Jannette Scarpino said that
it includes things like advertising revenue, Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) revenue, leasing, etc. Director Folska asked Jannette Scarpino if she
could expand on the types of income that might be included in IGA revenue.
Jannette Scarpino stated that it was not a significant source of income. It
largely consists of some betterment agreements that RTD entered into with
various municipalities.
Director Lubow noted that in the pie chart outlining the Base Sources of
Funds it shows passenger fares at 17.5%. She thought that was something
closer to 23%. Jannette Scarpino explained that this was the percentage of
passenger fares in the context of our total sources of funding. The figure
referenced by Director Lubow would be when you were comparing
passenger fares only to the sources of operating revenue.

• March 2015 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, reminded the Board that they present the
Monthly Financial Status Report each month as part of our fiscal policy and
good management practices. He reiterated that as the auditor mentioned,
the reports they receive are unaudited financial reports. He mentioned that
next month staff would be making some changes to the dashboard to
include the actual versus budget comparison. Doug MacLeod stated that
March was a very good month and fare revenue, ridership and sales and use
tax were all up.

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

she hopes to present an updated SBP on June 9, 2015 with a list of the
deferred projects.

6.E

Doug MacLeod pointed out that ridership on the W-Line increased 15% from
March of last year. He shared that after further investigation it appears that
ridership on the W-Line has begun to grow.

Director Bagley commented that the W-Line has been open now for some
time. He believes ridership being up 15% is a fantastic demonstration that it
takes time for ridership on new lines to increase; now people know about
the service and how to utilize the system. Director Bagley thinks we will
see similar trends on the lines opened in 2016.

• First Quarter 2015 Internal Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit, indicated that the 1st
Quarter Audit Report was included in the May 19, 2015 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. She said that she and
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, would be happy to answer any
questions.
Director Folska asked if perhaps the Internal Audit Department might have
any insight as to the problem with Xerox and the SmartCards. She
expressed that she is very frustrated and it does not seem like Xerox knows
what they are doing. She wondered if Xerox had payments that were tied
to their failure or successes. Kevin Parker shared that he has looked at the
Xerox contract and SmartCards as it relates to the controls that RTD has put
in place. He recognized that there have been setbacks and that the project
is behind schedule but he personally cannot speak to the issues. Interim
General Manager Genova indicated that staff would be presenting a
SmartCard update at next month’s Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting that the thought would answer many of Director
Folska’s questions.
Committee Chair Tobiassen thanked the Internal Audit Department for
including Cyber Security into the Internal Audit governance.

D. Other Matters
Director Anderson noted that the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report included
incorrect information about the areas she represents. She asked that this be
corrected.

Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson requested that staff still continue to present the
comparison between years; she finds this very valuable and hopes staff does
not plan to remove it. Heather Copp explained that the changes would just
be to add a few columns of additional information.

6.E

Director Solano commented that his area was generalized as just Adams County
but he represents Commerce City, Brighton and other locations. He would like to
see this corrected as well.
Committee Chair Tobiassen said that staff would make sure to look at that
information.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 9, 2015
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:28 p.m.

6.F

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Committee Chair
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:34 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:32 PM
6:34 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

6:34 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:34 PM
6:34 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:34 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:31 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:33 PM
Packet Pg. 48

6.F

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:34 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lee Cryer, Heather Deckard, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Ann Marie
Isaac-Heslop, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah
Menenez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Sue Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Steve Scholz, Cal
Shankster, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Diana Aqra, Karen Carr, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Kathleen Rosewater
Cunningham, Mary Durant, Tom Grushka, Felicia Gurule, Sherman
Hamilton, Audrey Haynes, Maricruz Herrera, Eugene Howard, Haya
Ibrahim, Jaime Lewis, Matt Marino, Erin Mooney, Kent Moorman,
Elizabeth Murphy, Joel Noble, Hanni Raley, Miguel Angel Reyes,
Eugenio Rodarte, LaSheita Sayer, Kenny Shepard, Joe Thomas, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villarreal, Cheryl Wallace, Dace
West, Monte Whaley, Zoe Williams

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract
with ZoZo Group, LLC of Denver for the sale and installation of exterior
advertising on ADA paratransit vehicles for the two and one-half year period
July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with two one-year options for
2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, ZoZo Group,
LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015,
$200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales,
whichever is greater.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager for Marketing explained that
a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued in 2014 soliciting
proposals for the sale and installation of exterior and interior
advertising on RTD vehicles. The RFP offered the option of
Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Sisk was absent.

6.F

Director Folska asked if the ZoZo Group employed any people
with disabilities and if it was a Disadvantage Business
Enterprise (DBE) or a Small Business Enterprise (SBE). Tony
McCaulay replied that the company does not employ any
people with disabilities. He added that the ZoZo Group is a
certified SBE, women- and minority-owned business. Director
Folska said that it would be wonderful to say that the
company awarded this contract employs people with
disabilities.
Director Lasater noted that 40% commission on sales seems
high. He added that traditionally commissions are close to
15%. He wondered how ZoZo Group arrived at the 40%
revenue share. Tony McCaulay said that as part of the RFP
bidders needed to provide both a minimum guarantee and net
revenue for RTD. He pointed out that the 40/60% is the same
share as Lamar Advertising, who holds the current contract for
bus and light rail. Tony McCaulay added that the 40% is a
traditional share nationwide and that the ZoZo Group will pay
commission to ad agencies out of their 40%.
Director Deadwyler commended staff for trying to generate
additional revenue. She wondered if there was any way to
prohibit negative advertising on paratransit vehicles. She
pointed out that the paratransit customer is either disabled
and/or elderly and certain advertising could cause additional
problems. Marla Lien, General Counsel, said that RTD
prohibits profanity, illegal practices, nudity and obscenity in
advertising. Beyond that there are not many additional
limitations the agency can make. Tony McCaulay added that
advertising would only be displayed on the back and driver
side of the vehicle; the curbside and front of the vehicle will
be Access-a-Ride/RTD branded.
Director Francone restated that advertising on paratransit
vehicles will be subject to the same standards as advertising
on buses and light rail. She expressed her concerns about
passengers not identifying the vehicles as a paratransit vehicle
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

three sections: 1) bus, light rail, and commuter rail; 2) ADA
paratransit vehicles and 3) other in-vehicle advertising
opportunities. One response was received on the ADA
paratransit vehicles from ZoZo Outdoor, a subsidiary of ZoZo
Group, LLC. (ZoZo Group) He recognized LaSheita Sayer,
Founder and Chief Marketing Officer of ZoZo Group, who was
in attendance.

6.F

Director Solano stated that it was a great idea to find
additional revenue sources. He wondered if paratransit riders
have been polled on the possibility of placing advertisements
on the paratransit vehicles. Director Solano said that
paratransit riders deserve the highest respect and possible
advertisements may conflict with their beliefs and/or ideas.
Tony McCaulay said that paratransit riders have not been
polled. He noted that there will be no advertisements inside
the vehicles. Director Solano suggested that it might be a
good idea to take the riders into consideration.
Director Folska noted that advertisement on paratransit
vehicles does not bother her at all. She added that it is a great
opportunity for revenue. She asked staff what the estimate
on the revenue looked like. Tony McCaulay said that the
minimum guaranteed for 2015 is $40k; $200k for 2016 and
$210K for 2017. He added that the ZoZo Group is very
enthusiastic about the opportunity. Director Folska expressed
her satisfaction with the minimum guarantee and the potential
for more revenue.
Director Archuleta wondered how long the ZoZo Group has
been in business and if they were a local or national company.
Tony McCauley replied that they were a local company with
12 years of business.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as
outlined in Attachment A, to take effect beginning January 1, 2016.

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

due to the advertising. Tony McCaulay reiterated that was the
reason these vehicles will not be fully wrapped in
advertisements, just the back and driver side.

6.F

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
reminded the Directors that the Fare Study Task Force
originated at the beginning of 2014. The study was done in
anticipation of the new lines opening in 2016 and the desire to
simplify the fare structure in an equitable manner. The Fare
Study Task Force has included all portions of the agency as
well as CH2M Hill as our consulting firm. Bruce Abel added
that extensive public outreach was done during the problem
identification phase and after an initial draft was created. This
included 16 public meetings. Other channels utilized for
feedback included voicemail and website. Staff brought a
modified proposal to the April 28, 2015 Study Session after
incorporating the received feedback.
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager, reviewed the Fare Study
Recommendation presentation included in the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting agenda packet for May
19, 2015. The presentation included a Summary
Recommendation, Recommendation Details, Title VI Equity
Analysis, Implementation Schedule, and Next Steps. In the
presentation, she explained that the paratransit fare would be
calculated at twice the SmartCard base fare since the
paratransit vehicles will not be outfitted with SmartCard
technology. Paratransit customers will still be able to buy the
fare booklets at a 10% discount just like it is currently
available.
Bruce Abel stressed that the Fare Study was divided into
stages. This first stage does not include the EcoPass,
CollegePass and the possible Low Income Pass. The rational
for this is that you cannot develop a pass program if there is
not a definitive base program. He also reinforced that the
conversation with Mile High Connect and the Affordable Fare
Task Force has been very productive. Both the Affordable
Fare Task Force and RTD have a desire to make transit more
affordable while recognizing that RTD is not able to subsidize
the fares. Bruce Abel said he looks forward to the continued
dialogue.

Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

6.F

Amendment
to Postpone: Director Solano made the motion to postpone
this item for 60 days to allow for more
encompassing feedback to include low income
fares.

RESULT:
FAILED COMMITTEE [2 TO 11 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Francone, Solano
NAYS: Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Kent Bagley, Claudia Folska,
Larry Hoy, Bill James, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Tom
Tobiassen, Jeff Walker
ABSTAIN:
Ernest Archuleta
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion FAILED.
Discussion on
Original
Motion:
Director Hoy congratulated the staff on a heroic effort. He
asked for confirmation that the Fare Recommendation
supports the Strategic Budget Plan presented earlier during the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting. Lacy
Bell said that was correct. Director Hoy stated that the
nuances could be talked about all day. He also expressed his
conceptual opposition to the fare zones but understands the
need.
Director Solano read into the record a petition with 1,000
signatures from Westwood Unidos, 9to5, Praxus, and other
organizations in support of affordable fares. A copy of the
petition is available at the Board Office. Director Solano said
that the bus fare raise to $2.60 is a debilitating factor. He
stated that the bus is the transit mode most used by the low
income riders. He added that this would be oppressive to the
workers.
Director Francone thanked staff for their work on the Fare
Study. She called it a labor of love. She asked if transfers
would be included in the SmartCard. Bruce Abel replied that
the Day Pass would enable riders to do as many trips as
desired until the end of business day. The SmartCard is an
incentive that staff is recommending in order to provide an
Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow seconded the motion.

6.F

Director Francone asked staff to explain how they arrived at
the $17.50 paratransit airport fare. Lacy Bell replied that the
regular regional SmartCard fare is $8.75. The paratransit fare
is calculated at twice the SmartCard fare. She added that
currently the paratransit airport fare is $26, making the new
fare significantly less.
Director Folska echoed the sentiments of her colleagues in
congratulating staff on their work and good intentions. She
trusts that the effort will keep going forward as the Fare Study
moves into phase 2. She commended Director Lubow for
making sure the conversation with Mile High Connects started.
Director Folska said that the idea of the SmartCard is a good
one; however, the SmartCard is not so smart right now. She
recounted that the new fares will be in place in January and
that the Board was asked to approve the purchase of printers
as to ensure timely installation. She asked staff what
assurance the agency has that Xerox will deliver the
SmartCards on time. Bruce Abel said that it is hard to give an
assurance on a third party. He stated that RTD is working
with Xerox to expedite the tasks that need to be done. He
added that Xerox project management has changed 4 times;
however, Xerox recently has been more organized and has
better tracking mechanisms. Director Folska asked when RTD
originally engaged Xerox and how much has been spent so far
on the project. Bruce Abel said that Xerox was hired in 2010
with a budget of approximately $18 million. Committee Chair
Anderson asked to have this conversation taken offline.
Director Folska stated that she does not like the coupon books
and is not aware of any paratransit rider who likes using them.
She added that booklets are a hassle. She wondered why the
SmartCard technology could not be used in the paratransit
vehicles, offering the same service to all riders. She asked
staff to explain the paratransit fare and the booklet discount
Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

opportunity to use transfers on a one way trip. He added that
the percentage of riders who do this kind of trip is very small.
Director Francone asked what percentage of riders use
transfers. Bruce Abel replied that currently the percentage is
high as the transfer is the media available. Director Francone
wondered if with the implementation of the SmartCard the
paper transfer would be discontinued. Bruce Abel answered
that that was correct as the paper transfer has been a source
of confusion to bus operators and riders.

as the presentation made it seem like the paratransit fare was
being discounted twice. Lacy Bell replied that the paratransit
fare is calculated at double the SmartCard fare. The booklets
are sold at a further 10% discount of the SmartCard price.
Director Folska was not sure that the inconvenience and
hassle of the coupons, which need to be exchanged at the end
of the year, is worth the perceived double discount. Bruce
Abel added that the paratransit coupon books have been well
received by the users; therefore, staff’s recommendation is to
continue using them. He stated that some users find them
convenient because they do not need to be purchased by the
riders themselves. He added that the long term objective is
installing the SmartCard technology in the paratransit fleet.
Director Folska referred to the Strategic Budget Plan
presentation given by the Senior Manager for Budget and
Financial Analysis, Jannette Scarpino, during the Financial
Administration and Audit committee meeting earlier in the
evening. During the presentation, Jannette Scarpino noted
that certain projects would be deferred as there is a $26K
budget shortfall. Director Folska wondered if phase 2 of the
Fare Study, where the various passes will be discussed, would
also include a discussion on parking and how that may
contribute to the overall revenue needed to fill the gap of the
anticipated $11 million revenue reduction due to the
implementation of a low income pass. Bruce Abel reminded
the Directors that the $11 million number was shared during
the April 28, 2015 Study Session as a possible revenue
reduction from a low income fare based program. He did not
want to speak to Jannette Scarpino’s $26 million and the
deferred projects as the deferred projects are usually
completed at a later date.
Director Lubow gave kudos to the Fare Task Force on their
hard and creative work. She stated that she shared the
concerns about being equitable to low fare riders. Since staff
could not give an assurance on Xerox’s delivery of SmartCards
in a timely manner, she asked if staff has thought through
what would happen if Xerox is a year late, for example. Bruce
Abel told Director Lubow that staff looks at the DayPass and
printers as essential parts of the fare structure. The
SmartCard is an incentive to move riders towards this type of
media but it is not essential to the fare structure. He recalled
that the original timeline called for a recommendation in April.
Postponing the recommendation to May has provided time to
add necessary recommendations to the fare structure. The
Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F

Director Lubow said that her understanding of the airport fare
cost analysis included increasing fares. She asked if staff had
a chance to look into that. Bruce Abel said that staff
requested that CH2M Hill analyze airport fares at $15. At that
rate, the increase in revenue would be $1.1 million; however,
he added that 70% of the ridership to the airport are
employees for whom the $9 regional DayPass would be
available. If the DayPass is available, chances are people will
not buy the $15 airport fare and just buy the Regional
DayPass. If non airport workers did not act in their best
economic interest and bought the $15 airport fare, we would
see an increase of $300,000 to $400,000. Lacy Bell added
that nationally a $9 fare is on the high end of the spectrum for
an airport fare. Director Lubow stated that while on the phone
with Lacy Bell she had an epiphany and realized that if people
wanted to buy two one way tickets with their SmartCard that
would be a discount compared to the DayPass.
Director Walker asked for the expected date of the SmartCard
rollout. Bruce Abel replied that it was originally November 1,
2015 for stored value with very limited application. However,
it makes no sense to implement the SmartCard at the current
fare zone structure so it will be January, 2016.
Director Walker stated that he is not crazy about the fare
zones coming back but understands why. He noted that the
riders from Jefferson County will not have the opportunity to
go as far as other riders within the fare system as the zoning
structure assumes that everyone will travel downtown.
Director Walker appreciates the push to use SmartCard as it is
more efficient to RTD, the users, and the tax payers. He
pointed out that the staff has put in an unbelievable amount of
work on the Fare Study.

Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

extra month has, however, put extra pressure on our partners,
such as Xerox, to deliver. Bruce Abel said that staff
recognized those risks and is ready to make the necessary
accommodations to be ready by the first of the year. Director
Lubow commented that as a Board member who cares about
affordability, it saddens her that the SmartCard and the Fare
Structure might not launch together since one can save a
significant amount of money utilizing the card. She hopes that
staff can put pressure on Xerox to put whatever resources are
necessary in place.

Director Lasater stated that the phase 2 conversations on
passes will last about 90 days. He asked if the $11 million
shortfall is already factored into the $131 million projected
revenue of the Fare Study recommended action. Bruce Abel
noted that $131.3 million is the revenue target for this
recommended action. Any further action, including the
potential inclusion of a low income fare pass that may lead to
a revenue reduction of $11 million and the search for
offsetting the revenue reduction, is not included in the
recommended action. Bruce Abel noted that staff’s objective
is to find ways to fund the program as opposed to not meet
the revenue target. Director Lasater thanked staff for
continuing the dialogue and hopes that a solution can be
reached that will make everyone happy.
Director Menten stated that she does not hand out praise very
often; however, she thanked staff and Lacy Bell for all the
work on the Fare Study. She acknowledged that she got
frustrated towards the end due to the changes made, but the
changes were because of public feedback. She suggested
that the next time the agency goes through this process,
adding an extra month to the public feedback process would
be helpful. Director Menten mentioned a few things about the
proposal: it is fair, glad to see the paratransit fares, glad to see
that transfers were added, and impressed that 70% of the
airport ridership is employees. She added that currently we do
have a day pass at $6.40, which nobody uses. In reference to
the exchange of paratransit booklets, she noted that 2014
coupons could be exchanged up to June 30, 2015. Director
Menten expressed her satisfaction with the proposal.
Director Deadwyler expressed her gratitude to staff, especially
appreciating the concessions for the paratransit fares. She
asked if a low income plan would have to be done through
non-profits. Bruce Abel said that staff is looking at a variety
of ways. He noted that the current non-profit program could
be streamlined to improve access. He added that another
option being considered is extending the Senior, Student, and
Disabled 50% discount to those that are 150% under the
poverty line. Director Deadwyler wondered how we could
certify someone’s income. Bruce Abel said that RTD would
not engage in the certification process. This would be done
by non-profit entities. Director Deadwyler requested that the
list of non-profits participating in the current Reduced Fare
Program be made public. Lacy Bell added that the goal is to
streamline and broaden the awareness of the current reduced
Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F

Director Solano wondered if any statistical analysis was done
forecasting how ridership would be affected by the fare
change. Lacy Bell replied that the proposed model calls for
89.3 million riders compared to 91 million riders with no fare
increase. She noted that other fare models had a larger
decrease in ridership. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning, explained that the model forecasts a
2% drop in ridership. He added that it remains to be seen
how other variables influence ridership, i.e. improved services,
opening of new lines, etc. Director Solano reinforced that this
was a forecast and not certain.
Director Tobiassen echoed the praise to staff for all their hard
work. He stated that they may win a Nobel Peace Prize for
their conversations on a low fare income program. He noted
that his fear is that no matter what, for some reason, we do
not meet our revenue target. He recalled when in 2010 RTD
had to cut 8% of services and how that such action would not
have his support. He also recalled when the SmartCards first
rolled out. He pointed out that technology has changed so
much and we keep moving the target for our third party
vendors. He asked the Directors to cut the vendors a little
slack as they struggle to implement the program.
Director James thanked Lacy Bell and the staff for all the
heavy lifting they have done during this project. He
remembered how a fare increase 5 years ago seemed like a big
deal. This, however, is really a big deal. He is glad to see
RTD taking advantage of using new technology. He looks
forward to completing phase one of the process and working
with Mile High Connects and other stakeholders as the project
moves to the next phase.
Committee Chair Anderson gave kudos to the staff for the job
they have done. She said she appreciated the new airport fare
as many people in her community work at the airport and are
not very highly paid. She thinks the fares will be fairer than
they were in the past. She added that she has been in talks
with her legislators regarding low fare for the income
challenged. She says that RTD should not be responsible for
this and that the State and the Federal government have to
help the agency. Committee Chair Anderson expressed how
encouraged she was by staff’s proposal.
Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

fare non-profit program. Director Deadwyler reiterated her
appreciation for staff’s work, including the paratransit fares.

6.F

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk

Committee Chair Anderson thanked the Board and staff for their work on
this difficult issue and expressed her happiness over presenting a new fare
structure at the Board meeting.

C. Updates

• Proposed August 2015 Service Changes
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, introduced
Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning and Scheduling. Jessie Carter
pointed the Directors to the Board of Directors Report included in the
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting agenda packet for
May 19, 2015. He noted that the August changes include the opening of
new stations: Boulder Junction at Depot Square and Central Park Station
Bus Plaza and Park-n-Ride, which will replace the existing Stapleton Park-nRide.
Jessie Carter informed the Directors that the May service changes went into
effect on Sunday, May 10. This included the installation of route 4 which is
averaging 16 boardings per hour, which is very good for a new route.
Director Folska asked if RTD had done any marketing for route 4. Jessie
Carter replied that the Westwood Neighborhood Association has gone door
to door handing out information. RTD has not spent any money yet but is
planning on doing a direct mail to all residences within a quarter mile of the
route. Bruce Abel recognized the great partnership with the Westwood
Neighborhood Association as they have gone above and beyond
communicating with the community. Director Folska found the partnership
with Westwood Neighborhood Association very exciting and wondered how
to apply these lessons learned to other communities.
Director Francone said that she understood the South Jeffco Call-n-Ride was
underperforming. She expressed her excitement over the service addition to
route 77 as that is the bus she utilizes. She shared the concerns of the
Evergreen residents as they are scared to death they might lose their Call-nRide. They are motivated to reach out and push out information. Director
Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

Francone stated that Evergreen would like marketing assistance, like
information, maps, and flyers in order to promote the service. She said that
her understanding is that Evergreen has been asking for these materials for
about a year. Jessie Carter replied that Jeff Becker, Senior Manager for
Service Development, and Brian Matthews, Manager for Special Services,
have worked with community groups to increase Call-n-Ride ridership in
Evergreen. He told Director Francone that staff will do what they can to
assist Evergreen in marketing their Call-n-Ride. Director Francone wondered
if the vehicle from the South Jeffco Call-n-Ride would be put back in service.
Jessie Carter replied in the affirmative. Director Francone wondered if the
area ridership supports another Call-n-Ride vehicle or would it be best served
by a more fixed route. Jessie Carter replied that that is one of the issues
Brian Matthews is analyzing.
Director Hoy mentioned that there used to be a bus in Evergreen that was
discontinued leading to the creation of the Call-n-Ride. Jessie Carter
clarified that it was route 63X and there were 7 actual rocket scientists who
rode the bus. Director Hoy thanked the Board for voting to keep the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride active. He said that the ridership continues to go up,
which is a testimony to community spearheading the movement.
Director Bagley noted that he worked with Director Daly back in 2011 when
the route 63X was cut and the Call-n-Ride was established. He pointed out
that it was a thorny issue to address. He mentioned that he rode the bus
during the morning commute from Mineral to Lockheed Martin and it was
empty. He is very excited that Director Francone’s District is getting
upgraded services.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone wished Director Lasater and Director Folska a happy birthday as
their birthdays are later this week.
Director Menten noted that there are customer service panels in the works. She
asked staff to send her a list of meetings. She also wondered what topics they will
be discussing. Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, said that
he would forward the list to Director Menten. He added that he believed the next
session would be on SmartCards.
Director Solano informed the Directors that ThorntonFest on Saturday, May 16,
was a lot of fun. He encouraged the Directors to attend public functions, including
the upcoming Juneteenth Festival in which Director Deadwyler is involved.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 9, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:10 p.m.
Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

6.F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 19, 2015 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 61

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

6.G

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 21, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 12:04 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:
Committee members absent:
Other Board members present:
Others Present:
Constituents present:

II.

Chair pro-Tem Tobiassen, Secretary Walker, 2nd
Vice-Chair Menten.
Chair Sisk, Treasurer Hoy
Director Bagley, Director James, Director Folska
(via phone)
Interim General Manager Genova, Paula Perdue
Jane Smith, David Sachs, editor at Streetsblog
Denver

Action Item: Video Recording for Board Chamber
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all RTD Board
meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD
website for public viewing. This action also approves the initial upfront costs not to
exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment necessary to record the meetings. In
addition, this action approves funding for a contract technician to facilitate the video
recording at each meeting and an offsite contractor to provide closed captioning services.
These services combine for an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen asked Interim General Manager Genova to speak to this item.
Interim General Manager Genova noted that a Board report had been for the videotaping of
the RTD Board meetings in RTD and the Executive Conference room. The initial upfront
cost not to exceed $25,000 for the purchase and install of equipment and an additional
amount for the contract technician and stenographer for the closed captioned services for
a total amount not to exceed $35,000 per year. The initial funding is available in the
General Manager’s unallocated budget. This item will need to be budgeted for the

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

6.G

following years. This proposal included two cameras as they did not feel one camera
would provide the desired quality.
Director Menten acknowledged this proposal and recommended that other audio from past
years should also be made available on the website. This may be an action for future
consideration.

Director Bagley thanked the Board members for agreeing to move this forward. He
commented the idea and request had come from him. However, he expressed concerns
that three of the Board members who he knows favor this recommendation would not be
available to vote at the Board meeting on Tuesday. He considers this of vast importance
to the full Board and therefore requested that this action be postponed until June, 2015.
Director James indicated that he liked the idea of video recording for transparency
purposes but suggested that perhaps we need to do some thorough analysis before
making this decision. He shared he had been in a meeting in Commerce City and perhaps
we can talk to them about their experiences. He also recommended we could use the tech
support from our meetings and create some efficiency. Paula Perdue corrected him and
stated there is no technician available at our committee meetings, only the Board
meetings.
Director Folska stated she believes this is a good idea. However, her concern right now is
overextending our resources. Our focus should be on the opening of the 4 corridors plus
the BRT in 2016, the effects of the fare study rollout, the GM Search efforts, the APTA
Seminar, just to name a few, and felt we should try to avoid mission creep. She
wondered if it would make sense to postpone this effort until 2016 when these projects
are completed. She felt all hands need to be on deck to make sure we can have
successful project completion.
Director Bagley emphasized that now is the time for the video to be installed. He feels
that the project rollouts that Director Folska identified is all the more reason to have the
cameras installed. He stated this was first brought to his attention before the fare study
and it is beneficial to our efforts to install video for transparency purposes. He feels it
should be done now, rather than later.
Motion:

Director Menten made the motion to approve the videotaping of the
RTD Board meetings and to move it to the Board meeting on
Tuesday, May 26, 2015.

Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker inquired if the lights in the RTD room are movable. He noted having
proper lighting is important. He also wondered if we would be capturing public comments
with these cameras. Could this be an issue if people did not desire to be on camera?

6.G

Director Walker seconded the motion.
Interim General Manager Genova indicated staff would be able to
implement if this action gets approved. He sees no problem with
doing it now.
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen shared that he is in support of the video.
However, we do have budgetary concerns as presented by Jannette
Scarpino with the projected SBP shortfall of $26M. He is also
concerned around the issues of affordable fares. He recognizes this
is little money but every penny is important when balancing the
budget. Interim General Manager thinks this is reasonable and would
have minimal impact. Above all, he wants to make sure this would
not affect the Board’s office negatively as with workload or
resources. He wants this implementation to be total transparent to
the work of the Board office.
Director Bagley responded the funds will be coming from the General
Manager’s unallocated budget. It will take a few months to get
equipment ordered so he did not see it impacting on the APTA
Seminar and could be done in August.
Paula Perdue responded that this is not a project that has ever been
discussed with her on its impact on her staff or resources. This
request was brought directly to former General Manager Washington
by Director Bagley. She had made it clear at that time that her office
has no bandwidth or resources to implement or manage this
additional responsibility. This was supposed to be an action for the
communications department. Whether it gets implemented in August
2015 or August of 2017, her response is still the same. It cannot be
transferred to this Board office to maintain or budget funds. She is
simply out of resources and is already concerned about the work
overload by her staff now and in the future. Her concern is on the
quality of life for her employees and this cannot be pushed off on the
Board office now or later.
Director Bagley indicated he was sensitive to the concerns expressed
by Paula. His real concern is this is a project that needs to be
implemented now. If not now, when? He shared this would require
a vote of eight. He believes postponing this action to June would be

Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion:

6.G

Director Menten inquired how many employees are in
communications. Interim General Manager Genova indicated he will
have to check the actual headcount and that they have salary and
represented employees. He believes the number is somewhere
around sixty. Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen indicated this question would
need to be clarified as a large number of these employees work for
TIC and also a number of the staff includes project people. Chair Pro
Tem Tobiassen noted that Interim General Manager Genova had
contingency funding, the quality of the service proposed appears
good, he does not see much risk of taking this before the Board as it
appears there is overall support so they would move this action item
forward.
Vote on Motion:

III.

The motion PASSED Unanimously.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen called for a discussion of the May agenda.
Motion:

Director Menten made the motion to approve moving the May agenda
forward to the Board meeting of May 26, 2015.
Director Walker seconded the motion

Discussion:

Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen indicated that all items had been discussed
and vetted in the Committee meetings so he did not see many
questions. Director Folska suggested that the Board report on fare
study should highlight the different phases that are under
consideration as she is not sure that everyone understands our next
steps.
Interim General Manager Genova indicated they are anticipating a
large number of people for the meeting on Tuesday and asked if
preparations had been made for the overflow. Paula Perdue indicated
this has not been a ASK of her and since her budget was tight due to
the General Manager’s Search process, she has not taken any steps
to make this happen. This is an additional cost item. Chair Pro Tem

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

better when a more representative number of Board members could
be present.

6.G

Tobiassen inquired what needs to happen and placed a request of
Paula to make the necessary preparations for overflow on Tuesday.
Vote on Motion:


The motion PASSED Unanimously.

Unanimous Consent

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.
B.

Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization
Agreement (the “Agreement”).


Recommended Action
C.

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract Renewal

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015 through June 29,
2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
D.

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract with ZoZo
Group, LLC of Denver for the sale and installation of exterior advertising on ADA
paratransit vehicles for the two and one-half year period July 1, 2015 through
December 31, 2017 with two one-year options for 2018 and 2019. Under the
terms of the recommended action, ZoZo Group, LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a
minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015, $200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in
2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is greater.

Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

A.
Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to
Governance

6.G

E.

January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in
Attachment A, to take effect beginning January 1, 2016.
Videotaping RTD Board Meetings

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video
record all RTD Board meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post
the videos to the RTD website for public viewing. This action also approves the
initial upfront costs not to exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment
necessary to record the meetings. In addition, this action approves funding for a
contract technician to facilitate the video recording at each meeting and an offsite
contractor to provide closed captioning services. These services combine for an
estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.
IV.

Other Matters


V.

Director Bagley requested a record of the names of the constituents who were in
attendance at this meeting. Paula Perdue pulled the sign in log and recorded the
attendees as Jane Smith representing self and David Sachs, Streetblog.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of May 21, 2015 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

F.

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

9.A

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 21, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk asked everyone to stand for the recital of the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM
5:14 PM
5:32 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:26 PM
5:33 PM
5:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:30 PM
5:32 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:24 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:28 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:30 PM

Paula Perdue called roll. There were 12 Board members present at roll call. Directors
Deadwyler, Menten and Solano arrived after roll call.

Packet Pg. 68

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Rosalie
Hankus, Kim Heldman, George Hovey, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas,
Nadine Lee, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cheryl
Sclafani, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,

Others Present:

Shirley Baker, Wilma Barnett, Julie Bennett, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor,
Dan Cohen, Heather Copp, Flor Crawford, Joseph Edmonds, D.
Gagne, Cesar Gevert, Doug Gragg, Tom Grushka, Nehemiah Hall,
Norb Hankus, Patrick Horvath, Eugene Howard, Robert Hudson,
Jorge Jimenez, Margaret Johnson, Jo Lorenzini, Roberta Martinez,
Rochelle McBride, Bill McMullen, David Nietfeld, Hannah Poor, Mary
Ann Rabourn, Irene Rodriguez, Barbara Sabatino, Carmen Sey, Shane
Tempel, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Susan Vayo, Chris Waggett,
Gail Whitinger, Zoë Williams

Retiree Awards
Interim General Manager Genova introduced Rosalie Hankus, retired Executive Assistant to
the General Manager and CEO, who retired after 39 years of service. He said it was a real
honor to recognize Rosalie Hankus for her 39 years of service where she always had a
smile and a positive attitude. She served as the Executive Assistant since 1991,
supporting 3 different General Managers. He stated that Rosalie is really the face and
voice of RTD; she is the first person that many people interact with at RTD. Rosalie
started in 1975 in public information, moved into the marketing department, then transit
improvements and design and the planning department all before becoming the Executive
Assistant. Interim General Manager Genova thanked Rosalie for her dedicated to RTD.
She will be missed.
Rosalie said that working here had been terrific; it was really a wonderful place to work.
She is forever grateful to everyone at RTD for all her wonderful years here.
Chair Sisk also thanked Rosalie for her time at RTD. She has always been the welcoming
person for RTD. She is so cordial and will truly be missed. Chair Sisk recognized that
there have been so many lives touched by RTD.
Chair Sisk recognized Debbie Mills, Customer Service Division Representative for 24 years,
who was also retiring but unable to attend the meeting. He thanked her for her
commitment and dedication to RTD.

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

9.A

Public Participation










Barbara Sabatino, The Gathering Place, shared that she came to Denver to start her
life over as a single, divorced woman. She has been able to do so with the help of
non-profit agencies within the community. Part of being able to start over is also
being able to transport herself from one place to the other, which she does through
RTD. She said that when you start at the bottom it is very hard to build your way
up with very little money. Barbara Sabatino asked the Board to not take away
transfers and not raise fares. It will double the cost of riding RTD and make it that
much harder for people like her to get on their feet again.
Rochelle McBride, Denver, has been riding RTD since the age of 7. She is now
homeless and RTD is her only form of transportation. She does not have a high
income and cannot continue to afford to ride if we raise the prices. She shared
that there are many women at her shelter who have disabilities, herself included. If
RTD raises the fares the shelter will no longer be able to assist its residents in
getting around either. She asked the Board to look out for those who are less
fortunate and keep the fare where it is.
Joe Triplett, Aurora, said he was speaking this evening to represent visually
impaired seniors. They are concerned about the cost of Access-a-Ride increasing
by two times the proposed comparable fixed route fares. The Access-a-Ride riders
hope that fares for this service can be based on a rider’s economic situation. He
volunteered to be part of a committee or panel to work with the Access-a-Ride staff
on this.
Margaret Johnson, Denver, shared that she recently moved to Denver after living in
Texas. When she got back and the prices were $2.25 for a local fare it was quite a
jolt. She is handicapped, elderly and escaped an abusive partner and she needs
RTD’s services. She said that recently she was given incorrect directions from
Customer Information and then continued to receive wrong information from every
driver and employee she spoke to. She stated that we cannot get rid of transfers if
we are going to misdirect people who are using the service.
Zoë Williams, 9 to 5, is a community organizer in Denver. From where she sits
there is a crisis within the Denver metro community, a community that RTD is a
part of. She noted that the reality is that in the City of Denver you have to earn
$35 per hour to be able to afford to rent an apartment; however, the fastest
growing sector of the workforce is low wage jobs. She said that people are
struggling every day just to get by. Those same people that are struggling are also
those that rely on RTD. She shared that for the last two weeks people have
marched and rallied outside the RTD office to lift up their message that the current
cost of RTD is already a burden. She stated that the proposed fare structure would
make public transportation a commodity for those that could afford to make the
choice to ride and not for those that need it most. She is calling on the Board to
also lift up the message that has been shared over and over by the public.

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

V.











Jo Lorenzini, Denver, said that he is homeless and a veteran. He recognized that
his demographic is a little different in that he is privileged enough to have a car, but
he cannot afford to drive every day. He shared that everyone who is homeless had
an income under $700 per month. At that income they cannot afford to do
anything but ride the bus. They cannot afford rent, medicine, etc. He said that he
depends on transfers when he rides RTD. He hopes that RTD will keep fares
affordable and keep transfers.
Julie Bennett, Delores Project, stated that it is hard to pay bills and bus fare. If
RTD raises fares she will lose any work she has now as she will not be able to
afford to travel there. She could not get prescriptions, travel to doctors’
appointments, etc. unless she decided to walk, which is not an option as some
places she needs to go are 20 miles away. She said that there are many people in
her same situation. There are many people in need of an income based fare or for
the fare to at least remain where it is today. She believes that raising prices will
actually lead to RTD losing money as those that are rich will decide to drive their
cars and those that need RTD will not be able to ride.
Doug Gragg, Denver, said that he wanted to stress to the Board his opinion that we
need to hire a minority and a woman at the next General Manager and CEO. He
believes there are many strong candidates in the Denver metro area and we do not
need to be looking in other cities. He thinks Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of
Budget and Financial Analysis, would make a good candidate. He suggested adding
fast food restaurants in Denver Union Station to make it more affordable for
everyone.
Cesar Gevert, Denver, is here to represent The Gathering Place, a homeless shelter
serving women, children, and the transgender communities. He stated that 80% of
women who become homeless are homeless because they left an abusive
relationship. He recognized that while women’s wages are lower than men, wages
for someone who is transgender is even lower. He shared that 48% of The
Gathering Places budget goes to purchasing RTD fare. If the increase happens
53% of their budget would go to RTD. He noted that 52% of the population that
uses RTD in Denver are poor. He encourages the Board to really think about an
income based monthly pass where people that receive only $180 per month do not
have to spend $104 of it on a bus pass. He also asked that RTD lower the cost of
passes through the Non-profit Agency Reduced Fare program so that agencies like
his can serve their population better.
Wilma Barnet, The Gathering Place, shared that she has been riding the bus since it
was 50 cents. She gets $773 per month in disability and only gets an increase of
$11 per year. She wonders how RTD came up with the proposed price increase for
the local monthly passes of $25 per month. She asked the Board to put
themselves in her shoes. She cannot afford these fare increases on her limited
budget.

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A











Sue Vayo, Denver, said her only means of transportation is RTD. To get anywhere
like The Gathering Place for a meal or to visit her mother she has to take three
buses. If RTD takes away transfers than you take away her meal. She stated that
now it will cost her $10 to get to The Gathering Place and visit her mother. If she
had $10 she could afford to buy a meal.
Tom Grushka, Highlands Ranch, thanked the Board for their time this evening. He
said that as a blind person, he depends on RTD for his independence; therefore, he
does not only want to see RTD survive, he wants to see RTD thrive so RTD needs
to be sustainable. He expressed concern about purchasing thermal printers for the
buses. He suggested this action item from staff be more generalized to perhaps
allow for the purchase of something using magnetic readers. He believes this will
save costs for RTD. Tom Grushka said that he is also concerned about a conflict of
interest with CH2M Hill being involved in the oil industry. He is concerned about
their objectivity and impartiality in developing a proposed fare structure. He
wonders if they are really working to get more people to ride RTD as that will not
be good for their oil business.
Patrick Horvath, Mile High Connects, is here to speak to the importance of
affordability of RTD’s fares. The comments from the public overwhelmingly
support how important this is to the people that elected the Directors. He believes
there are reasonable alternatives to the proposed fare structure and hopes the
Board will consider them.
Gail Whitinger said that since the Board was not taking questions she would just be
making a statement. RTD will lose more money than we will make with these fare
changes.
Jorge Jimenez, Denver, spends 4 hours every day on the bus. He said he is also
concerned about the affordability of fares. He is lucky to have a job but it is a low
income job. He stated that for people with low income jobs who have a family to
raise it will be very difficult to do if the fares are raised. He imagines it is a lot
harder for people who do not work. He asked the Board to consider having a fare
that is affordable to low income people.

Chair Sisk thanked everyone for taking the time to be at the meeting. He shared that
there will be a Study Session scheduled next Tuesday where the Board will be discussing
the fare. He said that while there is not an opportunity for public comment everyone is
welcome to attend.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update
Chair Sisk said that progress continues to be made by the Committee. As everyone is
probably aware, on April 9th David Genova was appointed Interim General Manager and
CEO of RTD. He said that CRL Associates, a locally based company, has been selected to
provide strategic advisory services. They will be helping the Committee build a
communication plan to ensure we are communicating with, and getting feedback from, our
stakeholders, constituents, employees, etc. Chair Sisk indicated that the goal is to have
the GM Executive Search process concluded by January 1st, 2016. The Committee is also
in the process of looking for an executive search firm that will help us find the best
candidates.
Chair Sisk stated that the next step would be for the Committee members to work with
their buddies to identify leaders within their communities to participate in a focus group.
He asked the Directors to provide those no later than next Tuesday.
Chair Sisk thanked Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors, for all her
efforts in this process. He recognized that the Committee would not be able to do their
job without everything she has contributed.

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair Bagley noted that the
Committee will be working with Interim General Manager Genova over the next few
months on the task goals that came out of the Advance held in late March. Interim
General Manager Genova will work with staff to put the meat on the bones of the tactical
goals which should be brought to the Board more formally in July.

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 24, 2015
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
Board meeting minutes of March 24, 2015.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 abstention
(Solano).

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [14 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

X.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of April 9, 2015
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
the Special Board meeting minutes of April 9,
2015.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 abstention
(Solano).

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Tina Francone, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED

Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

9.A

Chair's Report
Attended Events/Awards:
 April 9th – National Transportation Infrastructure Day – RTD Stand Up for
Transportation – Bus signing ceremonies district wide were successful. In
attendance for the Unity Parade and Rally were Directors Anderson, Archuleta,
Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker.
 Fare Study Public Hearings District wide have concluded. There is a Study Session
scheduled for April 28th that will focus on the Fare Study.
Ongoing and Upcoming Events:
 Thursday, April 30th – Connecting Aurora Through Rail: Celebrating Progress! where
Directors Deadwyler, Folska and Tobiassen will be speaking.
 May 3rd to 6th – APTA Bus and Paratransit Conference and Bus Roadeo
 May 7th from 12 to 1 – Board Hosted APTA Webinar on the Board Member
Orientation Process
 May 12th – Aurora State of the City Lunch where Directors Deadwyler, Folska
Lasater and Tobiassen will be in attendance.
Chair Sisk thanked staff for their great work during the Fare Study Public Hearings. He
said that RTD will keep moving forward to find something equitable while maintaining our
service.

XII.

General Manager's Report










Interim General Manager Genova wanted to make sure the Board had the
opportunity to meet Tina Aragon, Executive Assistant to the General Manager and
CEO. He encouraged anyone that had not yet met her to stop by and say hello.
Interim General Manager Genova and RTD staff attended a 16th Street Mall meeting
on April 7th with the City of Denver senior staff. This was a very productive
meeting where the City was really able to get a better understanding of RTD’s
operations along the Mall.
Interim General Manager Genova shared that there was a North Metro Elected
Officials Meeting on April 8th.
Interim General Manager Genova attended the Visit Denver Board Meeting on April
15th where there was an update on Denver’s Urban Design Framework. They are
working on studies for the Convention Center and Performing Arts Complex and
how those will tie into connections with the 16th Street Mall.
Interim General Manager met with Julio Rivera, ATU President, to continue the
dialog with Union leadership.
Interim General Manager addressed the employees in the Monday Morning Q to
emphasize what he will continue to do with this great organization.

Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

XI.




There are upcoming stakeholder meetings with Thornton City Council on Tuesday,
May 5th and U.S. Mayors and Commissioners Coalition on Thursday, May 7th.
Interim General Manager Genova shared that staff just learned at 3:00 p.m. that
RTD received its approval letter from the FTA to enter into New Starts Engineering
for the Southwest Extension. He congratulated the staff that worked very hard to
make sure we met all federal requirements to remain in the New Start process. The
next step is the Full Funding Grant Agreement that we expect in 2016.

Questions from Directors:
 Director Folska asked if perhaps Interim General Manager meant the Southeast
Extension, not the Southwest. Interim General Manager Genova said that was
correct.
 Director Bagley asked if the Southeast Corridor stakeholders had been notified of
the letter. Interim General Manager stated that staff had not yet had the
opportunity but would be reaching out to them tomorrow.
 Director Menten inquired if there had been any progress in working with the FTA to
redefine the use of the grant money received for the 16th Street Mall reconstruction
project. Interim General Manager Genova said that staff is in the process of
working with the FTA. Staff has been receiving encouraging information that we
may be able to do something different but there has been no official decision.
 Director Menten wondered when there might be some data to present to the Board
on the EcoPass programs now that the SmartCards are functional. Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, said that June was the anticipated
timeframe for a presentation on the pass programs which would include the
EcoPasses.

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Sisk asked if there were any questions related to the Unanimous Consent agenda.
Seeing none, he proceeded to a motion.

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
Unanimous Consent agenda.

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 2 away (Lubow and Solano).

Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 0 WITH 2 AWAY]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Judy Lubow and Paul Solano

Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale, including
execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents for the purchase of the
real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn Property”).

B.

Budget Transfer Authorization for CAD/AVL-Radio Purchase

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the transfer of
$483,000 of previously approved capital funds to purchase twenty-on (21) CAD/AVL radio kits for expansion buses.
C.
Increase General Counsel's Settlement Authority to Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act Claim Limits
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the District up to
the limits provided in the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.

XIV. Recommended Action
D.

Station Names on North Metro Rail Line

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and approve the revised final station names for the North Metro Rail Line: 48th &
Brighton Blvd at National Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd; Northglenn•112th;
Original Thornton•88th; Thornton Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and
North Thornton•Hwy 7.

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

9.A

Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
the Station Names on North Metro Rail Line.

Discussion:

Director Hoy reminded the Board that they just
received a letter from Commerce City supporting
this recommendation. He said that he also
spoke to the City of Thornton and they are
supporting the names.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 2 away (Lubow and Solano).

RESULT:
PASSED [13 TO 0 WITH 2 AWAY]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
AWAY:
Judy Lubow and Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
E.

Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit facilities in
Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be
designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as
Downtown Boulder Station.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the Station Naming for Boulder Junction and
Boulder Transit Center.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

9.A

Chair Sisk shared that the Board received a letter
from the City of Boulder thanking the RTD Board
and staff for working with them.
Director Hoy noted that at the Committee
meeting he voted no. He has since had the
opportunity to speak with several people about
the naming process and will now be voting in
the affirmative. Chair Sisk thanked director hoy
for following-up and working through any issues
he might have had prior to the vote tonight.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 1 opposed (Lasater).

RESULT:
PASSED [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
F.

Authorization to Execute a Budget Transfer to Purchase Thermal Printers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in an
amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in order to purchase and install
the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed fare
structure.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
Authorization to Executive a Budget Transfer to
Purchase Thermal Printers.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy,

Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

Discussion:

9.A

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 3]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.
G.
Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and /or Thermal
Printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
First Amendment to the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the Certificates of
Participation, Series 2013A.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
the Authorization to Execute a Lease
Amendment for Smart Card and/or Thermal
Printers.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 3 opposed (Francone, Menten and
Solano).

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 3]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 2 opposed (Francone and
Menten).

9.A

Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopts the attached 2016 Performance Measures for mission statement
goals 1-7. There are 23 specific performance measures in total.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
the Adoption of the 2016 Performance
Measures.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Amendment to
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to maintain the
standards from 2015 for 2016. She does not
want the on time performance standard to be
reduced.
Director Solano seconded the motion.
Director Menten asked for clarification as to
what performance measures would remain the
same from 2015 to 2016. Rolf Asphaug,
Deputy General Counsel, explained that the
amendment being proposed would maintain the
on time performance measures from 2015. The
other performance measures would remain as
proposed by staff.

Vote on
Amendment:

The motion passed with 9 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk and Solano) and 6 opposed
(Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, James, Tobiassen and
Walker).

Packet Pg. 81

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

H.

RESULT:
PASSED [9 TO 6]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano
NAYS: Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, James, Tobiassen, Walker
Chair Sisk declared the amendment PASSED.
Vote on Motion
as Amended:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 3 opposed (Hoy, James and
Solano).

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 3]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Larry Hoy, Bill James, Paul Solano
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XV.

Executive Session
There was no Executive Session.

XVI. Old Business
There was no old business.

XVII. New Business
There was no new business.

XVIII. Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 6:46 p.m.

Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

9.A

9.A

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Apr 21, 2015 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of April 21, 2015)

Prepared and Transcribed by:

12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: May 14, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

May 14, 2015

Subject:

Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report to Governance

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District's independent auditor,
RubinBrown, LLP.
BACKGROUND
State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public accountants. The District is also
required to provide annual audited financial statements to external entities and other government
organizations to be in full compliance with legal covenants, debt agreements, and other contractual
documents. The accounting firm of RubinBrown, LLP performed the 2014 audit. In addition to the
requirements set forth in state statutes, the audit also was designed to fulfill the requirements of the
federal Single Audit Act of 1984 and related OMB circular A-133.
DISCUSSION
As stated in the auditor’s unmodified opinion, the financial statements in the enclosed Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
District as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of its operations and its cash flow for the
2014 and 2013 fiscal years in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District's independent auditor,
RubinBrown, LLP. This is the recommended action, state statutes and other sources, such as
rating agencies and other legal covenants, require the District to enter annual audited financial
statements into the record.
2. Do not accept and enter into the record the audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2014 as prepared by Staff and audited by the District’s independent auditor,
RubinBrown, LLP. This is not the recommended action, since state statutes and other sources,
such as rating agencies and other legal covenants, require the District to enter annual audited
financial statements into the record.
ATTACHMENTS:


1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014)

(PDF)



1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL

(PDF)

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 84

12.A

Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 85

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL
FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal year ended
December 31, 2014 and 2013

Denver Airport Station and transit center construction.

Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street, Denver, Colorado
303.299.6000 rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 87

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DENVER, COLORADO
COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013

Prepared by
Finance Division
Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

2

Packet Pg. 89

12.A.a

INTRODUCTORY SECTION

Page

Letter from Chair of Financial, Administration and Audit Committee

5

Letter of Transmittal

7

Board of Directors

13

District Service Area Map

14

Organization Chart

15

Department Officials

15

GFOA Certificate of Achievement

16

FINANCIAL SECTION
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants

19

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

23

Basic Financial Statements
Statements of Net Position

38

Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

40

Statements of Cash Flow

41

Notes to Financial Statements

44

Required Supplementary Information
Pension Plan Summary

73

Supplemental Information
Schedule of Expense and Revenue –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

75

Summary Schedules

76

STATISTICAL SECTION
Net Position by Component

79

Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Net Position

80

3
Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS
(CONTINUED)
Page
Operating and Other Expenses and Capital Outlays

81

Revenue by Source

82

Debt Coverage Ratios

83

Demographic and Operating Data

85

Debt Disclosure Tables

86

Strategic Budget Plan –Operations

87

Strategic Budget Plan - Capital Program

88

Statement of Debt

89

Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

90

Advertising and Ancillary Revenues

90

Grant Receipts and Other Contributions

90

Five-Year Summary of Statements of Revenues, Expenses
and Changes in Net Position

91

Five-Year Schedule of Expenses and Revenues –
Budget and Actual - Budgetary Basis

92

Fiscal Year 2014 and 2015 Budget

93

Trip Fares

94

RTD Net Taxable Retail Sales

95

4
Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Regional Transportation District

April 30, 2015
Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
In accordance with Colorado statutes and Regional Transportation District (RTD) bylaws, the
enclosed Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional Transportation District as of
December 31, 2014, has been compiled. Responsibility for the accuracy of the presented data and
the completeness and fairness of the presentation, including all disclosures, rests with RTD.
Management believes the data, as presented, fairly sets forth the financial position and operating
results of RTD. Disclosures necessary to enable the reader to gain the maximum understanding of the
financial affairs of RTD have been included.
In developing and evaluating RTD’s accounting system, consideration has been given to the
adequacy of internal accounting controls. These controls are discussed by the Chief Financial Officer
in the Letter of Transmittal. Within that framework, we believe RTD’s internal accounting controls
adequately safeguard assets and provide reasonable assurance of the proper recording of financial
transactions.
This report has been prepared according to the guidelines recommended by the Government Finance
Officers Association of the United States and Canada. In accordance with these guidelines, the
accompanying report is presented in three parts:
1.

Introductory Section, including the Chief Financial Officer’s Letter of Transmittal.

2.

Financial Section containing the independent auditor’s report, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis, the financial statements, notes thereto and supplemental information. In addition, the
supplementary information contains unaudited financial information by fund.

3.

Statistical Section, including selected tables of unaudited data depicting the financial history of
RTD, demographics, and other miscellaneous information.

Colorado law requires the governing bodies of local governments to have an independent audit of
RTD’s financial statements performed. RTD has complied with this requirement and has included the
report of the independent auditors in the Financial Section of this report.
Preparation of this Comprehensive Annual Financial Report could not have been accomplished
without the dedicated efforts of the entire financial staff. Should you have any questions or
comments, please contact me or Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer (Acting).
Respectfully submitted,
Tom Tobiassen, CISSP, CISA
Chair, Financial, Administration and Audit Committee

5
Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

6

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 93

Regional Transportation District

April 30, 2015
Mr. Tom Tobiassen
Chair, Financial, Administration and Audit Committee
Regional Transportation District
State law requires that all general-purpose local governments publish within seven months of the
close of each fiscal year a complete set of financial statements presented in conformance with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and audited in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants. Pursuant to that
requirement, we hereby issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.
This report consists of management’s representations concerning the finances of RTD.
Consequently, management assumes full responsibility for the completeness and reliability of all
of the information presented in this report. To provide a reasonable basis for making these
representations, management of RTD has established a comprehensive internal control
framework that is designed both to protect the government’s assets from loss, theft, or misuse
and to compile sufficient, reliable information for the preparation of RTD’s financial statements in
conformity with GAAP. Because the cost of internal controls should not outweigh their benefits,
RTD’s comprehensive framework of internal controls has been designed to provide reasonable
rather than absolute assurance that the financial statements will be free from material
misstatement. As management, we assert that, to the best of our knowledge and belief, this
financial report is complete and reliable in all material respects.
RTD’s financial statements have been audited by RubinBrown, LLP, and a firm of licensed
certified public accountants. The goal of the independent audit was to provide reasonable
assurance that the financial statements of RTD for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, are
free of material misstatement. The independent audit involved examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements; assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management; and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. The independent auditor concluded, based upon the
audit, that there was a reasonable basis for rendering an unmodified opinion that RTD’s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, are fairly presented in conformity with
GAAP. The independent auditor’s report is presented as the first component of the Financial
Section of this report.
The independent audit of the financial statements of RTD was part of a broader, federally
mandated “Single Audit” designed to meet the special needs of federal grantor agencies. The
standards governing Single Audit engagements require the independent auditor to report not
only on the fair presentation of the financial statements, but also on the audited government’s
internal controls and compliance with legal requirements, with special emphasis on internal
controls and legal requirements involving the administration of federal awards. These reports are
in RTD’s separately issued Single Audit Report.
GAAP requires that management provide a narrative introduction, overview, and analysis to
accompany the basic financial statements in the form of Management’s Discussion and Analysis
(MD&A). This letter of transmittal is designed to complement the MD&A and should be read in

7
Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

conjunction with it. RTD’s MD&A can be found immediately following the report of the
independent auditors.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (RTD)
RTD provides public mass transit service to the Denver metropolitan area. In 1969, the
Colorado General Assembly (Assembly) found that public transit was a necessary part of the
growing Denver Metropolitan Region. The Assembly found that public sector involvement was
the best method to ensure the continuation of this vital component. Thus, the Regional
Transportation District was created as a political subdivision of the State effective July 1969 “to
develop, maintain, and operate a public mass transportation system for the benefit of the
District.”
RTD boundaries now include Jefferson, Boulder, and Denver counties, most of the City and
County of Broomfield, and portions of Adams, Douglas, Weld, and Arapahoe counties. Over
2.87 million people, or approximately 57% of the population of Colorado, reside within RTD’s
2,340 square mile area.
Since 1983, RTD has had a fifteen-member Board of Directors that are elected by their
constituents to serve four-year terms to govern RTD. There are approximately 180,000 voters
per director district. The RTD Board of Directors is responsible for setting policy, overseeing the
agency’s annual budget, and establishing short and long-range transit goals and plans in
concert with local, state, and federal agencies.
RTD employs over 2,700 men and women, making it one of the largest employers in the eight
county areas. In addition, RTD contracts with private carriers to provide access-a-ride and fixed
route services employing over 1,700 men and women. Besides its administrative headquarters
in Denver, RTD has six operating facilities, including three in Denver, one in Aurora, one in
Englewood, and one in Boulder.
The financial reporting entity includes all of the financial activities of RTD, as well as those
activities of its component unit, the RTD Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority), a
nonprofit corporation established to facilitate RTD’s use of lease/purchase financing.
RTD also maintains budgetary controls. These controls ensure compliance with legal provisions
embodied in the annual appropriated budget approved by RTD’s Board of Directors. The
budget sets forth proposed outlays for operations, planning, administration, development, debt
service, and capital assets. The level of budgetary control (that is, the level at which
expenditures cannot legally exceed the appropriated amount) is established at the project level.
The annual budget serves as the foundation for RTD’s financial planning and control. All
departments of RTD are required to submit requests for appropriation to the General Manager
on or before August 1st of each year. The General Manager uses these requests as the starting
point for developing a proposed budget. The General Manager then presents this proposed
budget to the Board of Directors for review prior to October 15th. The Board of Directors is
required to hold a public hearing on the proposed budget and to adopt a final budget no later
than December 31st.
Unused appropriations lapse at year end, except that the Board of Directors has the authority,
as stated in the adopted appropriation resolution, to carry-over the unused portion of the funds
for capital projects not completed, for a period not to exceed three years.

8
Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

RTD’s policy also authorizes the General Manager to approve certain line-item transfers within
the budget. Budget-to-actual comparisons are provided in the Supplemental Information Section
of this report.
Factors Affecting Financial Condition
The information presented in the financial statements is perhaps best understood when it is
considered in the broader perspective of the specific environment within which RTD operates.
RTD serves the eight-county region considered the Denver metropolitan area. It is the most
populated area of the state and the economic barometer of Colorado. Employment in the
Denver Metro area is dominated by small businesses. These companies represent a diverse
mix of industries and are located throughout the Denver metropolitan area, providing a
geographic balance in employment centers.
The Colorado Legislative Council (CLC) in its December 2014 report forecasts that the
economic recession has subsided and a modest recovery has begun. Economists for CLC
reported the following key economic indicators.
Key Economic Indicators
Job Growth
Unemployment
Personal Income
Population
Inflation

2013 Actual
3.0%
6.8%
2.8%
1.5%
2.8%

2014 Forecast
3.0%
5.3%
5.5%
1.7%
2.7%

2015 Forecast
3.0%
4.3%
7.0%
1.7%
2.5%

On November 3, 1992, the voters of Colorado approved a Constitutional Amendment (the
“Amendment”) that limits taxes, revenue, and spending for state and local governments effective
December 31, 1992. On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted RTD from the
revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31, 2005. On
November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue and
spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred to
finance the construction of the Southeast and Southwest light rail lines or to operate such for as
long as any debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in the District’s sales
and use tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit
improvement program. This authorization also exempted the District from any revenue and
spending limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the
increased tax revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements
included in the FasTracks program. At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, the District’s
sales and use tax rate will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the transit system financed
through FasTracks.
Long-term Financial Planning
Each year the Board of Directors adopts a financially constrained Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
which is the six-year operating and capital improvement plan of RTD. It reflects RTD’s plans for
service and capital improvements excluding FasTracks. In November 2010, the Board of
Directors convened a Fiscal Sustainability Task Force for the purpose of developing a formal
written report that was submitted to the Board of Directors in June 2011, detailing opportunities
for operating efficiencies and revenue enhancements to ensure RTD’s fiscal sustainability in the
long term. The Task Force consisted of 21 members from RTD management, the Board of
Directors and the public and private sector. The Board of Directors gave approval to

9
Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

management to pursue implementation of the Task Force’s recommendations. The SBP
includes those recommendations that have been implemented in the SBP timeframe, most
notably an operational service adjustment, enhanced sales and use tax forecasts and
implementation of a revised fund balance policy which was implemented in 2013. On July 16,
2013, the Board adopted the 2014-2019 SBP.
In addition to the SBP, RTD is planning and constructing the build-out of the FasTracks transit
expansion plan. FasTracks entails the addition of six new light-rail lines and commuter rail lines,
21,000 new parking spaces, the redevelopment of Denver Union Station, and expanded bus
service throughout the eight county District. Each year, RTD conducts a comprehensive
evaluation of the entire FasTracks program, called an Annual Program Evaluation. RTD has
worked closely with elected officials, local governments, corridor stakeholders and the public to
move the FasTracks program forward.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RTD management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal control structure
designed to ensure that assets are protected from loss, theft, or misuse and that adequate
accounting data are compiled to allow for the preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP. RTD has designed its internal control structure to provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that these objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance
recognizes that: (1) the costs of a control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and
(2) the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and judgment by management.
Single Audit: As a recipient of federal assistance, RTD is responsible for ensuring that an
adequate internal control structure is instituted to ensure compliance with applicable laws and
regulations related to those programs. This internal control structure is subject to periodic
evaluation by management and the RTD internal audit staff.
As part of RTD’s single audit, tests are made to determine the adequacy of the internal control
structure, including that portion related to federal financial assistance programs, as well as to
evaluate RTD’s compliance. RTD’s single audit for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014
found a material weakness in the internal control structures or significant violations of applicable
laws and regulations. A separate report was prepared for this purpose.
Fiscal Policy: RTD follows a fiscal policy approved by the Board of Directors annually or as
necessary due to modification. The fiscal policy contains policies for revenue, investments,
expenditures, capital improvements, fund balance, debt, budgeting, accounting and grants. In
2012, RTD modified its fund balance policy to establish a structure that was recommended by
the RTD Fiscal Sustainability Task Force as being a necessary tool in designating funds to be
available for specific purposes to ensure fiscal sustainability.
Debt Administration: RTD formulates its debt policy to protect its credit ratings and soundly
manage its assets and liabilities. Included in this policy is a requirement that debt will not be
used to finance current operations. Another requirement precludes financing capital projects
beyond the useful life of the project. Additional policies go beyond these essential guidelines
and result in further protection. RTD has a dual rating for its 1.0% sales tax credit. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and Poor’s Corporation rates the
sales tax credit “AAA” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit “AA+” that are secured by the
0.6% sales tax. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sales tax credit as “Aa2”, Standard and
Poor’s Corporation rates the sales tax credit “AA+” and Fitch Ratings rates the sales tax credit
“AA” that are secured by the 0.4% sales tax.

10
Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Cash Management: The main objective of RTD’s cash management program is the protection
of investment principal while providing optimal levels of cash throughout the year. The RTD
investment policy is modified periodically to adapt to changes in eligible investments,
benchmarks, and specific objectives.
During the year, RTD invested its cash in various investment vehicles including money market
funds, U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities, discount notes, commercial paper, repurchase
agreements, and variable and fixed rate mortgage-backed securities. The total average return on
investments for the year was 0.2%.
Risk Management: RTD employs a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance in
its efforts to protect assets and control and prevent losses.
The areas of self-insurance are worker’s compensation, automobile and general liability. RTD is
self-insured for liability, the limits of which are $350,000 per person and $990,000 per
occurrence as specified under the Colorado Governmental Immunity statute. The self-insured
retention for worker’s compensation claims is $2,000,000 per claim, with any amounts above
this covered by purchased insurance up to the legal limits of liability under the Colorado
worker’s compensation statute.
Commercial insurance policies provide property coverage up to $1,663,245,896 for buildings,
their contents, and rolling stock (other than collision); a Commercial Crime Policy and Faithful
Performance Bond; a $3,500,000 Workers’ Compensation Bond; Felonious Assault Policy;
travel insurance for employees on RTD business; fidelity coverage on the Trustees of the Union
Pension Trust, Salaried Pension Trust, Represented Health and Welfare Union Trust, Legal
Trust, and the employees administering the health benefits program for salaried employees.
With the growth of Light Rail Transit (LRT) services, RTD has added Railroad Protective and
Railroad Liability commercial insurance policies that provide coverage when required under
operational needs.
The Risk Management Division coordinates these programs internally for RTD.
OTHER INFORMATION
Independent Audit: State statutes require an annual audit by independent certified public
accountants. The accounting firm of RubinBrown LLP was selected to perform the 2014 audit.
This audit also was designated to meet the requirements of the Federal Single Audit Act
amendments of 1996 and related OMB Circular A-133. The auditor’s report on the financial
statements and schedules are included in the Financial Section of this report. The auditor’s
report related specifically to the single audit is included in a separate report.
Awards: The Government Finance Officers Associations (GFOA) awarded a Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting to RTD for its Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. This is the twenty-second
consecutive year, after a two-year absence from the program, that RTD has been awarded this
prestigious award.
In order to receive the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, RTD
must publish an easily readable and efficiently organized Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report, the contents of which must conform to program standards. This report must also satisfy
both GAAP and applicable legal requirements.

11
Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

The Certificate of Achievement is valid for one year only. We believe our current
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report meets the program’s requirements and will be
submitting it to the GFOA to determine its eligibility for another certificate.
Acknowledgements: Preparation of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report on a timely
basis was made possible by the dedicated services of the entire staff of the Finance Division.
Each member of the division has our sincere appreciation for the contributions made in the
preparation of this report.
Finally, without the leadership and support of the members of the RTD’s Board of Directors,
preparation of this report would not have been possible.
Sincerely,
Doug MacLeod
Chief Financial Officer (Acting)

12
Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

12.A.a

RTD’s governing body is a 15-member elected Board of Directors, with each member elected
from one of the fifteen districts comprising RTD’s service area. Each district is apportioned
equally by population and most districts cross county boundaries. The districts are assigned
letter designations from “A” to “O”. The following are the members of the Board of Directors as
of February 2015:
District A
Bill James
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District I
Judy Lubow
Boulder/Broomfield/Adams/Weld Counties

District B
Barbara Deadwyler
Denver/Adams Counties

District J
Larry Hoy, Treasurer
Adams/Jefferson/Broomfield Counties

District C
Ernest Archuleta
Denver/Adams/Jefferson Counties

District K
Paul Daniel Solano
Adams County

District D
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Denver/Jefferson/Arapahoe Counties

District L
Lorraine Anderson
Jefferson/Boulder/Broomfield Counties

District E
Claudia Folska
Denver/Arapahoe Counties

District M
Natalie Menten, Second Vice Chair
Jefferson County

District F
Tom Tobiassen, First Vice Chair
Arapahoe County

District N
Tina Francone
Jefferson/Denver Counties

District G
Gary Lasater
Arapahoe/ Douglas Counties

District O
Charles L. Sisk, Chair
Boulder County

District H
Kent Bagley
Arapahoe/ Douglas Counties

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Board of Directors

13
Packet Pg. 100

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

14

Packet Pg. 101

Organization Chart
Taxpayers and Customers

Board of Directors

General Manager

Bus Operations

Communications

Rail Operations

Planning

Finance/Administration

General Counsel

Capital Programs

Safety, Security &
Facilities

Department Officials
General Manager/Chief Executive
Officer (Acting)
Dave Genova

AGM, Planning
William C. Van Meter

AGM, Bus Operations
Bruce Abel

AGM, Capital Programs
Richard Clarke

Chief Financial Officer/Administration
(Acting)
Doug MacLeod

General Counsel
Marla L. Lien

AGM, Rail Operations
Terry Emmons

AGM, Communications
Scott Reed

AGM, Safety, Security & Facilities
(Acting)
John Tarbert

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

15
Packet Pg. 102

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

16

Packet Pg. 103

FINANCIAL SECTION

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

17

Packet Pg. 104

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

18

Packet Pg. 105

12.A.a

1900 Sixteenth Street
Suite 300
Denver, CO 80202
T 303.698.1883
F 303.777.4458

Independent Auditors’ Report

W rubinbrown.com
E info@rubinbrown.com

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado
Report On The Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Regional Transportation
District (RTD) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the
related notes to the financial statements, which collectively comprise RTD’s basic
financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
Management’s Responsibility For The Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America; this includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to financial
audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General
of the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from
material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

RubinBrown LLP
Certified Public Accountants
& Business Consultants

Packet Pg. 106

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of RTD as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the
changes in its financial position and its cash flows for the years then ended in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that
the management’s discussion and analysis and pension plan summary information on
pages 23 through 36 and 73, respectively, be presented to supplement the basic
financial statements. Such information, although not a part of the basic financial
statements, is required by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which
considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic financial
statements in an appropriate operational, economic or historical context. We have
applied certain limited procedures to the required supplementary information in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America,
which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the
information and comparing the information for consistency with management’s
responses to our inquiries, the basic financial statements and other knowledge we
obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements. We do not express an
opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do
not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary And Other Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements that collectively comprise RTD’s basic financial statements. The
accompanying budgetary information, summary schedules, introductory section and
statistical section are presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a
required part of the basic financial statements.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

20

Packet Pg. 107

Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District

The budgetary information is the responsibility of management and was derived from
and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and certain additional
procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial statements
or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.
In our opinion, the budgetary information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
relation to the financial statements as a whole.
The summary schedules, introductory and statistical sections have not been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and
accordingly, we do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on them.
Other Reporting Required By Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report
dated April 30, 2015 on our consideration of RTD’s internal control over financial
reporting and on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts and grant agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to
describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial reporting and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on internal
control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an integral part of an
audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering
RTD’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.

April 30, 2015

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

21

Packet Pg. 108

THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

22

Packet Pg. 109

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
The management of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) offers users of our financial statements
this narrative overview and analysis of the financial activities for the years ended December 31, 2014 and
2013. This discussion and analysis is designed to assist the reader to focus on significant financial
activities and identify any significant changes in the financial position of RTD. It should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements that follow this section. All amounts, unless otherwise indicated,
are expressed in thousands of dollars.
Financial Highlights
As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, total assets of RTD exceeded total liabilities $3,181,074 and
$2,977,449 respectively. The amount of unrestricted net position as of December 31, 2014 was $18,842
compared to $53,218 in 2013.
The net position of RTD increased by $203,625 during the current year compared to an increase of
$248,539 in the previous year. The increases in both years are due to higher operating revenues and tax
and grant revenues, net of increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses which resulted
from an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense reduction initiatives
undertaken by RTD.
RTD’s sales and use tax revenues are its largest single source of revenues. These tax revenues
increased $46,135 (9.8%) in 2014 and increased $18,799 (4.2%) in the previous year due to broad-based
increases in retail sales within the District as the local economy emerges from the recession.
For 2014, total operating expenses exceeded total revenues resulting in a loss before non-operating
revenue and expenses of $534,199 compared to a loss of $515,697 for 2013. The increase in operating
loss in 2014 was due to the increased cost of salaries and fringe benefits and a full year of West Rail
operating expenses. RTD anticipates operating losses, as these losses are subsidized by non-operating
sales and use tax, grant revenues and other miscellaneous income.
RTD’s total debt increased $501,624 (18.5%) and increased $285,219 (11.7%) in 2014 and 2013,
respectively. Debt increased in 2014 due to the issuance of certificates of participation primarily for the
purpose of funding of construction of North Metro Rail Line as well as well as borrowings on the
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) bond for construction of the FasTracks
project elements. Debt increased in 2013 due to the issuance of certificates of participation primarily for
the scheduled replacement of fleet vehicles as well as borrowings on the TIFIA bond for construction of
the FasTracks project elements
Capital grants and other contributions decreased $36,135 (14.9%) in 2014 and decreased $69,110
(22.2%) in the previous year. The decrease in 2014 occurred as a result of the reduced contributed capital
from the Denver Union Station construction project which was completed in 2014. The decrease in 2013
occurred after receiving certain one-time grants in 2012 associated with federal economic stimulus
programs as well as scheduled higher grant funding on the West Line and East Corridor.
RTD’s capital assets, excluding depreciation, increased $814,250 in 2014 and increased $748,201 in
2013. The increase in 2014 was from replacement of fleet. The increase in 2013 was primarily due to the
build-out of the FasTracks project.

23

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 110

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Basic Financial Statements
Management’s Discussion and Analysis serves as an introduction to RTD’s basic financial statements.
RTD’s financial statements are prepared using proprietary fund (enterprise fund) accounting that uses the
same basis of accounting as private-sector business enterprises. Under this method of accounting, an
economic resources measurement focus and an accrual basis of accounting is used. Revenue is recorded
when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred.
The basic financial statements are comprised of four components: statements of net position; statements
of revenues, expenses and changes in net position; statements of cash flows; and notes to the financial
statements.
The statements of net position presents information on assets and deferred outflows of resource and
liabilities and deferred inflows of resources, with the difference between the two reported as the net
position. Over time, increases or decreases in net position may serve as a useful indicator of whether the
financial position of RTD is improving or deteriorating. The statements of revenues, expenses, and
changes in net position presents information on operating revenues and expenses and non-operating
revenues and expenses of RTD for the fiscal year with the difference, the net income or loss, combined
with any capital grants and local contributions to determine the change in net position for the year. That
change combined with the previous year-end total net position reconciles to the net position total at the
end of the current fiscal year. All changes in net position are reported as soon as the underlying event
giving rise to the changes occurs, regardless of the timing of the related cash flows.
The statements of cash flows reports cash and cash equivalent activities for the fiscal year resulting from
operating activities, capital, and related financing activities, noncapital and related financing activities and
investing activities. The result of these activities added to the beginning of the year cash balance
reconciles to the cash and cash equivalents balance at the end of the current fiscal year. The statements
of cash flows, along with the related notes and information in other financial statements, can be used to
assess the following: RTD’s ability to generate positive cash flows and pay its debt as the debt matures;
the reasons for differences between RTD’s operating cash flows and operating income (loss); and the
effect of investing, capital, and financing activities on RTD’s financial position.
The notes to the financial statements provide additional information that is essential to fully understand the
data provided in the statement of net position, statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position, and statement of cash flows.
RTD provides bus, paratransit, and light rail service in a 2,340 square mile area in and around Denver,
Colorado. The activities of RTD are supported by a 0.6% and 0.4% sales and use tax collected within the
District. The 0.6% sales and use tax is used to fund the Base System operations of RTD. The Base
System operations provide the bus and the majority of current light rail services in the Denver area. The
0.4% sales and use tax funds the FasTracks build-out program and operation and maintenance of those
program elements as well as providing for enhanced transit services in the District. Additional revenue
sources include fare collections, federal, state, and local financial assistance, investment income, and
other income such as advertising and rental income.
Financial Analysis
Condensed Financial Information - Condensed financial information from the statements of net position
and statements of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position is presented below.

24

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 111

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Statements of Net Position - As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, total assets of RTD exceeded total
liabilities by $3,181,074 and $2,977,449 respectively. The largest portion of this excess, 93.9% in 2014
and 93.6% in 2013, was invested in capital assets, net of related debt. RTD uses these capital assets to
provide public transportation services to customers; consequently, these assets are not available for future
spending. Although RTD’s investment in capital assets is reported net of related debt, it should be noted
that funding required to repay this debt will be obtained from other sources such as sales and use tax,
since the capital assets themselves cannot be used to pay the related debt. The amount of unrestricted
net position as of December 31, 2014 was $18,842 compared to $53,218 in 2013. Substantially all of the
unrestricted net position, although not legally restricted, has been appropriated or reserved by the RTD
Board for future capital acquisition and reserve policy requirements, and debt liquidation during the budget
process.
Condensed Summary Statements of Net Position
2014
Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources:
Current assets
$
549,772 $
Current assets - restricted
582,236
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
5,413,455
Other noncurrent assets
301,173
Deferred Outflows of resources
39,736
Total Assets and Deferred Outflows of Resources
6,886,372

546,876
710,639
4,696,735
151,611
43,471
6,149,332

Liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources:
Current liabilities
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred Infows of resources
Total liabilities and Deferred Inflows of Resources

313,687
3,390,984
627
3,705,298

319,004
2,852,223
656
3,171,883

383,740
2,557,522
685
2,941,947

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted
Total net position

2,987,694
174,538
18,842
3,181,074

2,788,100
136,131
53,218
2,977,449

2,348,966
334,162
45,782
$ 2,728,910

$

$

2013

2012
$

720,663
850,581
4,056,128
33,961
9,524
5,670,857

In 2014, capital assets net of accumulated depreciation increased $716,720 (15.3%) for acquisition of
revenue equipment, buildings, land, and construction in progress for the projects in the FasTracks
program.
Current liabilities decreased $5,317 (1.7%) in 2014 primarily due to an accrued lower construction
payment for the FasTracks Eagle P3 project to the project concessionaire due in early 2015. Noncurrent
liabilities and deferred inflows increased $538,732 (18.9%) primarily due to the issuance of certificates of
participation for construction of the North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union Station to 124th Avenue.
RTD’s net position increased $203,625 (6.8%) in 2014. The increase was primarily due to higher
operating, tax and grant revenues, net of increases in operating expenses and non-operating expenses
which resulted from an improving economy combined with revenue enhancement and expense reduction
initiatives undertaken by RTD.

25

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 112

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position–The following summary of
revenues, expenses, and changes in net position shows the activities of RTD resulted in an increase in
net position. The net position of RTD increased by $203,625 during the current year compared to an
increase of $248,539 in the previous year. The increases in both years were due to higher operating
revenues, grant revenue income and sales and use tax collection increases, net of increases in operating
expenses and non-operating expenses. The key elements of changes in net position for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 with comparative information for 2012 are shown in the following
table:
Summary of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
2014
2013
Operating revenue:
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Total operating revenue

$

Operating expenses:
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses
Operating loss
Nonoperating revenues (expenses):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain on Sale of Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/ Unrealized Loss on Assets
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

120,497
4,406
124,903

$

117,841
5,199
123,040

2012
$

112,929
5,333
118,262

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
659,102
(534,199)

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256
638,737
(515,697)

127,557
51,417
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
115,269
607,277
(489,015)

514,721
75,544
165
16,861
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,088
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

449,787
68,927
2,613
14,494
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

Income before capital contribution
Capital grants and local contributions

(2,806)
206,431

5,973
242,566

(9,460)
311,676

Increase in net position

203,625

248,539

302,216

NET POSITION, beginning of year
NET POSITION, end of year

$

2,977,449
3,181,074

$

2,728,910
2,977,449

$

2,426,694
2,728,910

The information contained in the condensed information table is used as the basis for the revenue and
expense discussion presented below, surrounding RTD’s activities for the fiscal years ended December
31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.

26

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 113

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Revenues
The following schedule and charts show the major sources of revenue for the years ended December 31,
2014, 2013 and 2012.
Revenue Analysis
2014
Revenues
Passenger fares
Advertising and other
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income/Gain-sale of assets
Capital grants and local contributions
Total Revenues

$

$

2013

120,497
4,406
514,721
75,544
165
16,861
206,431
938,625

$

$

117,841
5,199
468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
242,566
952,645

2012
$

$

112,929
5,333
449,787
68,927
2,613
14,494
311,676
965,759

Revenue Analysis
$600,000
$500,000
$400,000
$300,000
$200,000
2014

$100,000

2013

$-

2012

27

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 114

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

Passenger fares – Passenger fares provided 12.8% and 12.4% of total revenues in 2014 and 2013,
respectively. Farebox receipts, monthly and annual pass revenue, and special event fares for bus and rail
services are included in passenger fares. Passenger fares increased by $2,656 (2.3%) in 2014 compared
to an increase of $4,912 (4.3%) in 2013. The increase in 2014 was due in part, to full year of revenue
service of the West Line light rail line which opened in April 2013 while additional increases in both years
were due to higher participation in fare media programs.
Advertising and other – Advertising and other revenue provided 0.5% of total revenues in 2014 and
2013; this includes revenues from advertisements primarily on RTD’s buses and external wraps on light
rail vehicles. Advertising and other income decreased $793 (15.3%) in 2014 compared to a decrease of
$134 (2.5%) in 2013. The decrease in 2014 was primarily due to reduced joint venture revenue contracts.
The decrease in 2013 occurred with the expiration of certain facility leases that occurred with the
redevelopment of the Denver Union Station historic building.
Sales and Use Tax – Sales and use tax provided 54.8% and 49.2% of RTD’s total revenues in 2014 and
2013 respectively. Sales and use tax is a dedicated 1.0% tax imposed on certain sales within the service
area. Sales and use tax increased $46,135 (9.8%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $18,799 (4.2%) in
2013. In 2014 and 2013, the District experienced growth in tax revenues due to increased consumer and
business spending activity as the local economy continues to emerge from the recession.
Grant operating assistance – Grant operating assistance provided 8.0% and 9.3% of total revenues in
2014 and 2013. Grant operating assistance decreased $12,699 (14.4%) in 2014 compared to an increase
of $19,316 (28.0%) in 2013. The operating assistance is a federal grant revenue program used to perform
capital maintenance and maintain RTD’s revenue fleet of bus, paratransit, and rail vehicles. The
decrease/increase in 2014 and 2013 is the result of grant funding sources being available during the year.
Investment Income – Investment income provided 0.02% and 0.21% of total revenues in 2014 and 2013.
Investment income decreased $1,875 (91.9%) in 2014 compared to a decrease of $573 (21.9%) in 2013.
The decrease in 2014 and 2013 was due to lower interest rates and a progressively lower investment
balance as invested funds are being utilized for the build-out of the FasTracks project in addition to
unrealized losses attributed to mark-to-market valuation under a rising interest rate environment.

28

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 115

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Other Income/Gain on sale of Assets – Other income provided 1.8% and 3.0% of total revenues in 2014
and 2013. Other income decreased $11,309 (40.1%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $13,676
(94.4%) in 2013. Other income includes interest subsidy income, rental income from retail space, parking,
and miscellaneous other items. The decrease in 2014 was due to the one time increase in 2013 which
was primarily attributable to the sale of RTD’s Civic Center air rights and the sale of an easement on RTD
property.
Capital grants and local contributions – Capital grants and other contributions provided 22.0% and
25.5% of total revenues in 2014 and 2013. Capital grants and local contributions decreased $36,135
(14.9%) in 2014 and decreased $69,110 (22.2%) in the previous year. The decrease in both years
resulted from lower capital contributions related to completion of Denver Union Station multi-modal hub.
Expenses
The following schedule and charts shows the major sources of expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.
Expense Analysis
2014
Expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Interest expense
Other expense
Total Expenses

2013

2012

$

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
72,293
3,605

$

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256
61,223
4,146

$

127,557
51,417
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
115,269
51,371
4,895

$

735,000

$

704,106

$

663,543

29

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 116

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

Expense Analysis
$160,000
$140,000
$120,000
$100,000
$80,000
$60,000
$40,000
$20,000
$‐

2014

2013

2012

Salaries and wages–Salary and wage expense is the largest expense category accounting for 19.5% and
19.3% of the total RTD expenses in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Salary and wage expenses increased
by $7,453 (5.5%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $8,103 (6.4%) in 2013. Increases in both years
occurred from salary and wage performance (result based) and progression increases.

30

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 117

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Benefits – Fringe benefits accounted for 8.4% and 8.1% of total expenses in 2014 and 2013. Fringe
benefits increased by $4,932 (8.7%) compared to an increase of $5,328 (10.4%) in 2013. The increase in
2014 is primarily due to medical costs; resulting from CBA employer contribution ranging from $165$185/employee increase and salaried medical costs also increased from prior year. Pension cost also
increased in 2014 due to increased wages and Net Pension Obligation (NPO). The 2013 increase was
due primarily to an increase in the Net Pension Obligation (NPO).
Materials and supplies – The materials and supplies expense category accounted for 8.5% and 9.2% of
the total RTD expenses in 2014 and 2013 respectively. Materials and supplies expenses decreased
$2,642 (4.1%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $6,498 (11.1%) in 2013. The decrease in 2014
occurred due to a decrease in diesel fuel prices from an average of $3.26 to $3.12. In addition, repair
parts costs decreased significantly in 2014. The increase in 2013 occurred due to the opening of the West
Line and an increase in diesel fuel prices from an average of $2.73 to $3.26 per gallon.
Services – Services expense accounted for 14.8% and 16.0% of total expenses in 2014 and 2013.
Services expense includes contracted services such as security services; vehicle, equipment and right of
way maintenance services; advertising and marketing services, and legal services. Services expense
decreased $3,559 (3.2%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $2,626 (2.4%) in 2013. The decrease in
2014 was primarily due to the contract service reduction for U.S. 36 managed lane project. The increase
in 2013 was primarily due to the opening of the West Line.
Utilities – Utilities accounted for 1.9% of total expenses for both years 2014 and 2013. Utilities expense
includes electric, telecommunications, water and sewer, and natural gas for facilities. Utilities expense
increased $584 (4.3%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $1,734 (14.7%) in 2013. The increase in 2014
occurred primarily due to the full year of service for the West Line opened in April 2013 while lesser
increases in both 2014 and 2013 occurred due to higher electricity rates affecting traction power costs for
light rail services.
Insurance – Insurance accounted for 0.7% and 0.8% of total expenses in 2014 and 2013. Insurance
expense includes RTD’s self-insured cost for general liability and worker’s compensation claims. In
addition, RTD purchased insurance in its efforts to protect assets. Insurance expense decreased $295
(5.3%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $1,792 (47.5%) in 2013. The decrease in 2014 was due to
favorable claim severity and frequency results. The increase in 2013 due to Worker Compensation claims.
Purchased transportation – The purchased transportation expense category accounted for 15.6% and
16.0% of the total expenses in 2014 and 2013. Purchased transportation represents the costs of
contracted transportation services for bus, access-a-Ride, and call-n-Ride services. Purchased
transportation costs increased $1,936 (1.7%) in 2014 compared to $1,876 (1.7%) in 2013. The increase in
both years was primarily due to negotiated contract increases.
Leases and rentals – Leases and rentals include lease expense for office space, office equipment, parkn-Ride facilities, and use of communication towers. Leases and rentals expense increased $54 (1.7%) in
2014 compared to an increase of $809 (33.7%) in 2013. The increase in 2014 is primarily due to RTD’s
need for additional office space.
Miscellaneous – Miscellaneous expense includes other incidental operating expenses not included in
other defined categories. Miscellaneous expenses increased $113 (1.8%) in 2014 compared to a
decrease of $9,293 (59.0%) in 2013. This category includes additional one-time project expenses creating
fluctuations between years.

31

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 118

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
Depreciation – The depreciation expense category accounted for 18.9% and 18.1% of the total RTD
expenses in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Depreciation expense is a non-cash systematic allocation of
the cost of capital assets over the estimated useful life of the assets. Depreciation expense increased
$11,789 (9.3%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $11,987 (10.4%) in 2013. The increase in 2014
occurred primarily from the activation of the West Line into revenue service in April. The increase in 2013
occurred primarily due to a full year of depreciation for Denver Union Station project elements that were
placed into service.
Interest expense – The interest expense category accounted for 9.8% and 8.7% of the total RTD
expenses in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Interest expense increased $11,070 (18.1%) in 2014 compared
to an increase of $9,852 (19.2%) in 2013. Interest expense increases are due to the additional borrowings
surrounding the FasTracks build-out and scheduled fleet replacements.
Other expense – Other expense includes miscellaneous non-operating expenses not classified in other
expense categories. Other expense decreased $541 (13.0%) in 2014 compared to a decrease of $749
(15.3%) in 2013. The decrease in 2014 was the result on reduced loss of sales of assets compared to
prior year.
Capital Assets – Investments in capital assets include: land and rights-of-way; buildings and
improvements; leasehold improvements; revenue and non-revenue vehicles; shop and service equipment;
security and surveillance equipment; computer equipment; and furniture. RTD’s investment in capital
assets, net of accumulated depreciation, in 2014 was $5,413,455 compared to $4,696,735 in 2013. The
increase in capital assets in 2014 was $716,720 (15.3%) compared to an increase of $640,607 (15.8%) in
2013. RTD acquires its assets with sales and use tax revenues, farebox revenue, federal capital grants,
and proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds and certificates of participation. The increases during 2014
and 2013 were primarily due to the cost of planning, design and construction of FasTracks projects.
The following table summarizes capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation, as of December 31, 2014
and 2013 with comparative information for 2012.
Capital Assets (Net of Depreciation)
2014
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shops, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total

$

$

303,432
1,561,311
297,212
458,579
38,859
2,754,062
5,413,455

$

$

2013
265,577
1,438,275
85,639
397,947
43,206
2,466,091
4,696,735

2012
$

$

189,910
897,405
92,169
397,689
23,549
2,455,406
4,056,128

Major capital asset events during the 2014 fiscal year included the following:
FasTracks Denver Union Station (DUS) - RTD, with assistance from the City and County of Denver
(CCD), the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG), and the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) acquired historic Denver Union Station (DUS) in August 2001. DUS and the
surrounding property were being developed as a mixed-use, multi-modal transportation center located at
and in the vicinity of the original Denver Union Station. The master plan was adopted by all the

32

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 119

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
participating agencies in 2004. In addition, RTD acquired approximately two acres of property to relocate
light rail tracks adjacent to the Consolidated Mainline. Expenditures for 2014 were $38,623 for the
construction of assets.
FasTracks Denver Union Station Historic Building - In connection with the redevelopment of the
Denver Union Station area as a multi-modal transportation center, a contract was entered in December
2013 with Union Station Alliance (USA) to redevelop the historic building. Under the agreement, USA
redeveloped the historic building to include the Great Train Hall, Amtrak facilities, a 110 room hotel as well
as restaurant and retail services. The Historic Building re-opened to the public in 2014 with USA will lease
the building from RTD to operate and maintain these new amenities. Expenditures for 2014 were
approximately $565.
FasTracks West Corridor - The West Corridor is a 12.1 mile light rail transit corridor between the Auraria
Campus in downtown Denver and the Jefferson County Government Center in Golden, serving Denver,
Lakewood, the Denver Federal Center, Golden and Jefferson County. The West Line opened for revenue
service in April 2013 and was the first corridor completed in the FasTracks program. In 2014,
expenditures related to the West Corridor were approximately $10,128.
FasTracks North Metro Corridor - The North Metro Corridor is an 18 mile rail transit corridor between
Denver Union Station and 162nd Avenue, passing through Denver, Commerce City, Thornton, Northglenn
and unincorporated Adams County. A construction contract was entered to complete the commuter rail
line from DUS north to 124th Avenue by 2018 with an option to extend construction to 162nd Avenue if
additional funding is identified. In 2014, expenditures related to the North Metro Corridor were
approximately $96,496.
FasTracks Northwest Corridor - The Northwest Corridor is a 41 mile transit corridor between Denver
Union Station and Longmont, passing through Denver, Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder,
Longmont, unincorporated Adams County, and unincorporated Boulder County and was constituted as a
project separate from the ongoing work in the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. In 2014,
expenditures related to the Northwest Corridor were $29,734.
East and Gold Line Public-Private Partnership (Eagle P3) RTD was selected for inclusion in the FTA Public-Private Partnership Pilot Program (Penta-P). In 2010,
RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance, operate and maintain several of the
transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program. The Eagle P3 project is a $2,185,000
project that includes a Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East and Gold Line Corridors as well as
the Northwest Rail Electrified Segment. The Eagle P3 partnership was awarded to a concessionaire,
Denver Transit Partners (DTP), through a competitive bid process culminating in a contract price that was
$305,000 below internal estimates. The project is expected to begin revenue service in 2016.
The Eagle P3 project will be completed in two phases. Phase I includes the East Corridor, Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility and design work for Phase II. Phase II includes the Gold Line Corridor and the
Northwest Electrified Rail Segment. In 2014, construction expenditures related to the Eagle P3 project
were $407,147. The Eagle P3 Project elements are described below:
FasTracks East Corridor - The East Corridor is a 23.6-mile commuter rail transit corridor between
Denver Union Station and Denver International Airport. In 2010, RTD issued notice to proceed with
construction on this portion of Phase I of the Eagle P3 construction.
FasTracks Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility - The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility is being
designed to service the four planned commuter rail corridors (East Corridor, Gold Line, North Metro,
and Northwest Rail) included in the FasTracks plan. In 2010, RTD issued notice to proceed with
construction on this portion of Phase I of the Eagle P3 construction.

33

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 120

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
FasTracks Gold Line Corridor - The Gold Line Corridor is an 11.2 mile rail transit corridor between
Denver Union Station to the vicinity of Ward Road, passing through northwest Denver, unincorporated
Adams County, Arvada, and Wheat Ridge. RTD issued notice to proceed with construction of this
portion of Phase II in 2011.
FasTracks Northwest Electrified Rail Segment – The Northwest Rail Corridor, described previously,
includes a project segment, referred to as the Northwest Electrified Rail Segment, extending from
Denver Union Station to Westminster which will be completed under the Eagle P3 Project Phase II
which was issued a notice to proceed in 2011.
FasTracks I-225 Rail Line – The I-225 Rail Line is a 10.5 mile extension of RTD’s existing light rail line
from the Southeast Line Nine Mile Station to the East Line commuter rail transfer point near the
intersection of Peoria Street and Smith Road. The project includes eight stations and will serve the Aurora
City Center and the Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. A notice to proceed was issued in late 2014
with revenue service expected to begin in 2016. In 2014, expenditures related to the I-225 Rail Line were
$132,742.
FasTracks Southeast Rail Extension – The Southeast Rail Extension extends the popular Southeast
Rail Line from Lincoln Station to the new RidgeGate Parkway Interchange at I-25. The project will add 2.3
miles of light rail. New stations will be built at Sky Ridge Medical Center, Lone Tree City Center and
RidgeGate with a 1,300 Park-n-Ride facility. In 2014, expenditures related to the Southeast Rail
Extension were $1,269. RTD has applied for a New Start Grant to fund the project.
Additional information on RTD’s capital assets can be found in note D of this report.
Debt Administration
Outstanding debt – Outstanding debt includes sales tax revenue bonds and certificates of participation.
The 2014 outstanding debt was $3,219,223 compared to $2,717,599 in 2013. Outstanding debt increased
by $501,624 (18.5%) in 2014 and increased by $285,219 (11.7%) in 2013. The increase in both years
2014 and 2013 is due to new COPs issued for rail projects and well as replacement of rolling stock.
Sales tax revenue bonds – RTD issues sales tax revenue bonds to fund the acquisition and
construction of assets. The sales tax revenue bonds were $1,955,657 and $1,895,180 as of December
31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The sales tax revenue bonds increased $60,477 (3.2%) in 2014
compared to an increase of $66,418 (3.6%) in 2013. The increase in 2014 and 2013 is due to the receipt
of the TIFIA loan borrowings. The sales tax revenue bonds are payable from RTD’s sales and use tax
revenue. RTD is required to maintain certain minimum deposits, as defined in bond resolutions, to meet
debt service requirements. The bonds may be redeemed prior to maturity, at a price equal to the
principal amount plus accrued interest thereon and a premium to the date of redemption.
Certificates of participation - Certificates of participation relate to financial obligations issued by the
Regional Transportation District Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (Authority), a nonprofit
corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation (Certificates) with the proceeds being
used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be used by RTD. RTD leases the equipment
acquired with the proceeds from the Certificates under separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements.
For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts for the Certificates as its own debt. Certificates
outstanding were $1,064,855 and $655,230 as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The
Certificates outstanding increased $409,625 (62.5%) in 2014 compared to an increase of $160,280
(32.4%) in 2013. The increase in 2014 was due to the issuance of Certificates for the construction of

34

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 121

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
North Metro Rail Line. The increase in 2013 is due to the issuance of Certificates for the acquisition of
buses, certain ticket vending machines and refunding.
The following table summarizes outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 with
comparative information for 2012.
Outstanding Debt
2014
Bonds and COPs payable:
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
Certificates of Participation
Total Principal

$

Issuance premiums and discounts
Debt net of issuance and refunding

1,955,657
1,064,855
3,020,512

2013
$

198,711
$

3,219,223

2012

1,895,180
655,230
2,550,410

$

167,189
$

2,717,599

1,828,762
494,950
2,323,712
108,668

$

2,432,380

RTD maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor Corporation, Moody’s Investor Services, and Fitch
Ratings. Credit ratings vary based on the type of debt and the source of funds used for repayment.
RTD’s ratings are presented in the following table:

Rating Agency
Standard &Poor’s
Moody’s
Fitch

Base System Bonds
0.6% Sales &Use
Tax
AAA
Aa2
AA+

FasTracks Bonds
0.4% Sales& Use
Tax
AA+
Aa2
AA

Certificates of
Participation
AAA3
A+

Additional information on RTD’s debt can be found in footnote E of this report.
Economic Factors and Subsequent Events after the adoption of the 2014 Budget
Sales and use taxes are the largest single source of revenue for RTD, representing 54.8% and 49.2% of
the total revenues in 2014 and 2013 respectively. Sales and use tax revenues are affected by changes in
the local economy. Sales and use taxes declined significantly beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and
throughout 2009 as a result of the Great Recession. Modest improvements in sales and use tax revenues
began to occur in 2010 resulting in a recovery to pre-recession levels during 2014. Actual sales and use
tax revenue for 2014 was $514,721, an increase of $46,135 (9.8%) from 2013.
Increases in operating expenditures are expected in future years due to expansion of RTD’s FasTracks
program. The FasTracks program is a plan to build a comprehensive, integrated region-wide transit
network that will provide a reliable and safe system, enhance mobility and respond to the growing
transportation needs within the eight-county Regional Transportation District. The FasTracks program
includes 122 miles of new light rail and commuter rail, 18 miles of bus rapid transit infrastructure, 57 new
stations, 31 new park-n-Rides, and redevelopment of Denver Union Station. Funding for the FasTracks
program is being secured through Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grants, sales and use taxes and

35

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 122

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (Unaudited)
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)
other revenues, issuance of long term debt, and public-private partnerships. Due to the 2008-9
recessions, sales and use tax revenues declined significantly delaying construction while materials costs
increased. These factors are projected over the long-term to leave a gap in funding necessary to complete
the program.
The first FasTracks rail line opened on April 26, 2013, adding 12.1 miles of new light rail running from
Denver Union Station to Golden. The West Line has 11 new light rail stations and six Park-n-Rides
serving the Auraria campus, Denver, Lakewood, the Federal Center, Golden and Jefferson County.
The North Metro Rail Line is an 18.5-mile long commuter rail line that will run from Denver Union Station
through Commerce City, Thornton and Northglenn to state Highway 7 in North Adams County. On
December 13, 2013 RTD signed a $343 million contract with Regional Rail Partners (RRP) to design and
build the first 13 miles of the North Metro Rail Line to 124th Avenue. Construction of the line to 124th
Avenue is expected to be completed by 2018.
Requests for Information
This financial report is intended to provide an overview of RTD’s finances for those with an interest in this
organization. Questions concerning any information contained in this report may be directed to the Chief
Financial Officer.

36

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 123

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

37

Packet Pg. 124

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

2014
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents
Marketable interest bearing investments (note B)
Receivables:
Sales tax
Other, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $256 and
$191 at December, 31 2014 and 2013, respectively
Grants
Inventories
Other current assets (note C)
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)

$

2013

253,638
89,962

$

311,996
33,220

93,385

84,597

24,989
13,895
33,123
40,780
298,822
283,414

20,467
10,877
30,887
54,832
229,865
480,774

1,132,008

1,257,515

303,432
2,183,870
480,330
857,745
148,138
2,754,062
6,727,577
(1,314,122)
5,413,455

265,577
1,981,746
257,481
798,642
143,790
2,466,091
5,913,327
(1,216,592)
4,696,735

301,173
301,173

151,611
151,611

Total noncurrent assets

5,714,628

4,848,346

Total Assets

6,846,636

6,105,861

39,736

43,471

Total current assets
Noncurrent Assets:
Capital assets (note D):
Land
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other equipment
Construction in progress
Total capital assets
Less accumulated depreciation
Net capital assets
Other Noncurrent Assets:
Long-term marketable interest bearing investments - restricted (note B)
Total other noncurrent assets

Deferred Outflows of Resources

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

38

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 125

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF NET POSITION (CONTINUED)
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)
2014

2013

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities
Accounts and contracts payable
Current portion of long-term debt payable from restricted assets (note
E)
Accrued compensation (note F)
Accrued interest payable from restricted assets
Other accrued expenses
Total current liabilities

$

Noncurrent Liabilities
Long-term debt, net (note E)
Other liabilities (note E)
Total noncurrent liabilities
Total liabilities
Deferred Inflows of Resources

191,381

$

198,806

54,348
20,809
20,934
26,215
313,687

57,002
19,384
19,425
24,387
319,004

3,164,875
226,109
3,390,984

2,660,597
191,626
2,852,223

3,704,671

3,171,227

627

656

2,987,694
109,822
19,193
45,523
18,842

2,788,100
77,795
18,304
40,032
53,218

NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets (note I)
Restricted debt service and project related (note I)
Restricted tabor reserve (note I)
Restricted FasTracks (note I)
Unrestricted (note I)
Total net position

$

3,181,074

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

39

$

2,977,449

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 126

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2014
OPERATING REVENUE
Passenger fares
Advertising, rent, and other

$

Total operating revenue

2013

120,497
4,406

$

117,841
5,199

124,903

123,040

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256

Total operating expenses

659,102

638,737

OPERATING LOSS

(534,199)

(515,697)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance (note A)
Investment income
Other income
Gain(Loss) on capital assets
Interest expense (note A)
Other expense

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)

531,393

521,670

(2,806)

5,973

206,431

242,566

203,625

248,539

2,977,449

2,728,910

OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation

Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)
INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Capital grants and local contributions (note A)
INCREASE IN NET POSITION
NET POSITION, beginning of year
NET POSITION, end of year

$

3,181,074

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

40

$

2,977,449

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 127

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
2014
Cash flows from operating activities
Receipts from customers
Payments to suppliers
Payments to employees
Net cash used in operating activities

$

2013

122,104 $
(276,393)
(203,364)
(357,653)

117,662
(356,342)
(190,557)
(429,237)

75,544
505,933
10,248

88,243
464,226
28,170

591,725

580,639

(57,002)
527,104
203,413
13,549
(812,420)
(3,500)
(85,838)

(424,800)
651,538
345,912
1,414
(719,500)
(4,076)
(84,194)

Net cash used in capital and
related financing activities

(214,694)

(233,706)

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sales and maturities of investments
Interest and dividends on investments

(654,271)
645,327
165

(814,516)
353,773
2,040

(8,779)

(458,703)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

10,599

(541,007)

Cash and cash equivalents - January 1

541,861

1,082,868

Cash provided from noncapital financing activities
Grant operating assistance
Sales and use tax collections
Other revenue
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities
Cash flows from capital and related financing activities
Principal paid on long-term debt
Proceeds from issuance of debt
Capital grant funds and other contributions received
Proceeds from sale of assets
Acquisition and construction of capital assets
Cost of issuance
Interest paid on long-term debt

Net cash used by investing activities

Cash and cash equivalents - December 31

$

552,460

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

41

$

541,861

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 128

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING LOSS TO NET CASH
USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Operating loss
Adjustment to reconcile operating loss to
net cash used in operating activities
Depreciation expense
Bad debt expense
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Increase in other accounts receivable
Increase in inventories
Decrease in other current assets
Increase/ (decrease) in accounts payable
Increase in accrued compensation and expenses
Increase in long-term other assets
Increase in other accrued expenses
Net cash used in operating activities
RECONCILIATION OF CASH and CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents - restricted
Total cash and cash equivalents

2014
$

(534,199) $

(515,697)

139,045
(105)

127,256
12

(4,522)
(2,236)
14,052
27,058
1,426
1,828

(5,915)
(518)
23,084
(60,009)
1,847
178
525

$

(357,653) $

(429,237)

$

253,638
298,822
552,460

311,996
229,865
541,861

$

Noncash investing, capital and financing activities:
RTD had unrealized losses on investments of $47
and $238 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
RTD issued a DUSPA bond to fund the constuction of capital
assets in 2010 for $167,954. Assets contributed were $13,677 and
$74,704 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

42

2013

$
$

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 129

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

43

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 130

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Organization
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) was created as a transportation planning
agency, a political subdivision of the State of Colorado, by an Act of the Colorado General
Assembly (the Act), effective July 1969 (Title 32, Article 9, C.R.S., 1973, as amended). In
1974, the Act was amended and RTD became an operating entity charged with the
responsibility for development, operation and maintenance of a public mass transportation
system for the benefit of the citizens of the District. The District is comprised of 15
separate districts located in Denver, Boulder, Broomfield and Jefferson counties, and
certain portions of Adams, Arapahoe, Douglas, and Weld counties.
RTD is governed by a publicly elected board of directors consisting of 15 members. Each
board member is elected to serve a term of four years by the constituents of the district in
which the board member resides. As required by Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP), these financial statements present RTD and its component unit. The
component unit discussed in note A.2 is included in the RTD’s reporting entity because of
the significance of its operational or financial relationship with the District.
In 1988, a Senate Bill was enacted (privatization legislation) requiring RTD to implement
by March 31, 1989, a plan to competitively bid contracts for the provision of at least 20% of
RTD’s bus service by private contractors. In 1999, the Bill was amended requiring RTD to
increase this provision to at least 35% of fixed route bus service. In 2003, the Bill was
amended to require that at least 50% of RTD’s vehicular service be operated by private
transit companies. In May of 2007, the legislation was amended to provide for “a system
under which up to 58% of the District’s service” is provided by private contractors.
2. Financial Reporting Entity – Blended Component Unit
The Regional Transportation District Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the Authority) was
formed in 1987 as a nonprofit corporation on behalf of RTD for the purpose of issuing
certificates of participation in a public offering collateralized by an installment purchase
agreement with RTD. RTD’s General Manager appoints the Board of Directors of the
Authority. The Authority serves as a financing mechanism for various financing
arrangements for RTD. RTD follows pronouncement 61 issued by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board which provides guidance regarding the inclusion of
component units in the primary government’s financial statement presentation. The activity
related to the underlying financial obligations of the Authority has been included as a
blended component unit in RTD’s financial statements for the years ended December 31,
2014 and 2013. No separately audited financial statements are prepared for the Authority.
3. Basis of Accounting
The accounts of RTD are reported as a Proprietary Fund. Proprietary funds are accounted
for on the flow of economic resources measurement focus and use the accrual basis of
accounting which reports all assets, deferred outflows of resources, liabilities, deferred
inflows of resources, revenues, expenses, gains and losses. Revenue is recognized when
earned and expenses are recorded at the time liabilities are incurred. Proprietary funds
distinguish operating revenues and expenses from non-operating items. Operating
revenues and expenses generally result from providing services and producing and
delivering goods in connection with a proprietary fund’s principal ongoing operations. The
principal operating revenues of RTD are charges to customers for services. Operating
expenses include the cost of services, administrative expenses and asset depreciation. All
revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as non-operating
revenues and expenses.

44

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

Packet Pg. 131

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
It is RTD’s policy to apply GAAP in its presentation of financial statements. When both
restricted and unrestricted resources are available for use, it is RTD’s policy to use
restricted resources first, then unrestricted resources as they are needed.
4. Cash Equivalents
RTD considers all highly liquid investments, both restricted and unrestricted, with an
original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
5. Interest Bearing Investments
Investments with a maturity date, when purchased, of less than one year are carried at
cost or amortized cost which approximates fair value. Investments with a maturity date of
more than one year from the date of purchase are carried at fair value.
6. Inventories
Inventories consist primarily of materials and supplies used in the ordinary course of
operations. Materials and supplies are stated at cost using the FIFO (first-in, first-out)
method.
7. Other Assets
Certain payments to vendors reflect costs applicable to future accounting periods and are
recorded as prepaid items. Escrows are deposits held in escrow during the period of
construction. At the time projects are completed, escrows are generally applied toward
the cost of the project or may be forfeited by RTD upon breach of contract.
8. Receivables
Accounts receivable are stated at the amount management expects to collect from
outstanding balances. Management provides for probable uncollected amounts through a
charge to earnings and a credit to a valuation allowance based on its assessment of the
current status of individual accounts. Balances that are still outstanding after management
has used reasonable collection efforts are written off through a charge to the valuation
allowance and a credit to accounts receivable. Changes in the valuation allowance have
not been material to the consolidated financial statements.
9. Restricted Assets
Restricted assets are assets restricted by the covenants of long-term financial
arrangements.
10. Capital Assets
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost. Capital assets are defined by RTD
as assets with an initial, individual cost of more than $5,000 and an estimated useful life in
excess of one year. Maintenance and repairs are charged to current period operating
expenses and improvements are capitalized. Upon retirement or other disposition of
property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from
the respective accounts and any gains or losses are included in non-operating revenue
and expense. A pro rata share of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment, which
were acquired with federal funds, is required to be invested in a similar asset.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

45
Packet Pg. 132

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Interest is capitalized on assets financed with debt or certificates of participation from the
date of the borrowing until completion of the project. The amount of tax-exempt and
taxable debt and certificates of participation (externally restricted) interest to be capitalized
is the difference between the interest expense and interest earnings on issuance
proceeds. The amount of other interest to be capitalized is calculated by weighted average
construction expenditures multiplied by the weighted average interest rate of the
outstanding obligations.
Total interest cost of RTD consisted of the following as of December 31:
Interest expense
Capitalized interest
Total interest cost

2014
$72,293
50,281
$ 122,574

2013
$ 61,223
50,952
$ 112,175

11. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets, which are as follows:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment

10–20 years
30 years
8–25 years
3–10 years

Fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, are included in the asset balances in the
accompanying financial statements.
The cost of fully depreciated assets was
approximately $446,561 and $429,924 at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
12. GASB 65 – Classification
RTD implemented Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 65 Items
Previously Reported as Assets and Liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2013. The
objective of GASB 65 is to either properly classify certain items that were previously
reported as assets and liabilities as deferred outflows of resources or deferred inflows of
resources or recognize certain items that were previously reported as assets and liabilities
as outflows of resources (expenses or expenditures) or inflow of resources (revenue).
In addition to assets, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate
section for deferred outflow of resources. This separate financial statement element,
deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of net position that applies to a
future period(s) and thus, will not be recognized as an outflow of resources
(expense/expenditure) until then. The District’s deferred outflows consisted of losses on
deferred refunding of $39,736 and $43,471 as of December 31, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
In addition to liabilities, the statement of financial position will sometimes report a separate
section for deferred inflows of resources. This separate financial statement element,
deferred inflows of resources, represents an acquisition of net position that applies to a
future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that
time. The District’s deferred inflows consisted of a gain on deferred refunding of $627 and
$656 as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

46
Packet Pg. 133

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
13. Compensated Absences
RTD employees receive compensation for vacations, holidays, illness, and certain other
qualifying absences. The number of days compensated in the various categories of
absence is based generally on length of service. Compensated absences, which have
been earned but not paid, have been accrued in the accompanying financial statements.
13. Self-Insurance
Liabilities for property damage and personal injury are recognized as incurred on the basis
of the estimated cost to RTD. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option
as part of its employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are
incurred.
14. Revenue Recognition
Passenger Fares
Passenger fares are recorded as revenue at the time services are performed and revenue
is collected from the farebox. Sales of monthly passes are recorded initially as unearned
revenue and recognized as income at the end of the month for which the pass is used.
Sale of ten ride tickets is recorded as income at the time of sale. Sales of college based
passes, which are valid for a specific academic semester, are recorded initially as
unearned revenue. Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the
amount recognized in each month determined by prorating the total contract amount over
the semesters/quarters covered. Sales of Eco Pass and Neighborhood Pass, which are
valid through December 31 of a given year, are recorded initially as unearned revenue.
Sales are recognized as income at the end of each month, with the total contract amount
prorated evenly over the number of months of the contract.
Sales and Use Taxes
Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, RTD levies a sales tax of 1.0% on net
taxable sales made within the District and a use tax of 1.0% on items purchased for use
inside the District. As described in Note E, under the terms of the Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds, Series 2007A, Series 2010A, Series 2010B, Series 2012A and Series 2013 bond
resolutions, sales and use tax revenue is pledged for payment of debt service. Sales and
use taxes are collected by the State of Colorado, Department of Revenue and are remitted
to a trustee who satisfies debt service from the collections, as required under RTD’s bond
and commercial paper resolutions, and remits the balance to RTD.
Sales and use taxes are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month collected by the
merchant. Sales and Use Tax Bonds debt service will be paid from the collateralized sales
and use revenues in the amount of approximately $3,115,885 through 2050. Principal and
interest paid for the current year and pledged revenues received were $98,527.
Grants and Other Contributions
RTD receives grants from the federal government, through the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA), and the Department of Homeland Security (HSEC). Grants are also
awarded to RTD by state of Colorado through the Colorado Department of
Transportation. The federal and state government issues grants to RTD for operations
and acquisition of property and equipment.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

47
Packet Pg. 134

NOTE A – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
The amount recorded as capital grants was $171,549 and $159,783 in 2014 and 2013,
respectively. Operating assistance grant revenue was $75,544 and $88,243 in 2014 and
2013, respectively. Other contribution revenue was $34,882 and $82,783 in 2014 and
2013, respectively.
Grant and other contributions are recorded as revenue by RTD in the month that the actual
eligible grant expenditure was paid by RTD.
15. Use of Estimates
The financial statements contained herein have been prepared in accordance with US
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP are uniform minimum
standards of and guidelines to financial accounting and reporting. GAAP establishes
appropriate measurement and classification criteria for financial reporting. Adherence to
GAAP provides a reasonable degree of comparability among the financial reports of state
and local governmental units. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with
GAAP involves the use of management’s estimates. These estimates are based upon
management’s best judgments, after considering past and current events and
assumptions about future events. Actual results may differ from estimates.
16. Reclassification of Prior Year Amounts (Current Assets)
The Marketable interest bearing investments – restricted (Note B) include both current and
long term investments. The restricted investments were previously classified as current
assets. The restricted long term portions were reclassified to long-term marketable interest
bearing investments, 2014 and 2013 respectively.
NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS
Deposits
RTD’s deposits are subject to the State of Colorado’s Public Deposit Protection Act (PDPA).
Under this act, all uninsured public deposits at qualified institutions are fully collateralized with
pledged collateral which is held in custody by any Federal Reserve Bank or branch thereof, or
held in escrow by some other bank in a manner as the banking Commissioner shall prescribe
by rule and regulation, or may be segregated from the other assets of the eligible public
depository and held in its own trust department. Colorado’s PDP Act requires that pledged
collateral to be held is clearly identified as being security maintained or pledged for the
aggregate amount of public deposits accepted and held on deposit by the eligible public
depository. The depository has the right at any time to make substitutions of eligible collateral
maintained or pledged and is at all times entitled to collect and retain all income derived from
those investments without restrictions.
As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, RTD had bank deposits of $43,749 and
$56,950 collateralized with securities held by the pledging financial institutions’ trust
department or agent but not in RTD’s name.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

48
Packet Pg. 135

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
Investments
At December 31, 2014, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the
following:
Investment Type
U.S. Agency Securities
U.S Treasury Securities
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Total

Fair Value
$ 249,051
157,378
180,613
87,507
674,549

<6 Months
$ 2,105
21,834
163,508
56,781
244,228

6-12 Months
$ 32,095
66,841
17,105
13,107
129,148

1-5 Years
$ 214,851
68,703
17,619
301,173

At December 31, 2013, the Regional Transportation District’s investments consisted of the
following:
Investment Type
U.S. Agency Securities
U.S Treasury Securities
Commercial paper
Corporate bonds
Total

Fair Value
$ 186,360
190,069
211,138
78,038
665,605

<6 Months
$ 37,115
88,569
211,138
19,640
356,462

6-12 Months
$ 68,989
82,501
6,042
157,532

1-5 Years
$ 80,256
18,999
52,356
151,611

Interest Rate Risk, as a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses arising from rising
interest rates, RTD’s investment policy limits maturities of individual investment securities to 5
years, unless otherwise authorized by RTD’s Board of Directors.
Credit Risk, investment transactions are made in accordance with the Colorado Revised
Statutes (CRS) 24-75-601, et seq.
The types of investments, which are authorized by RTD’s internal investment policy, include
the following:
1. Obligations of the United States government.
2. Obligations of the United States government agencies and United States government
sponsored corporations.
3. Municipal notes or bonds that are an obligation of any state of the United States.
4. Corporate Bonds that are an obligation of corporations or financial institutions organized
and operating in the United States.
5. Commercial paper.
6. Time Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposits.
7. Bankers’ Acceptances.
8. Repurchase agreements.
9. Money market funds.
10. Local government Investment Pools.
11. Any other Investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et seq.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

49
Packet Pg. 136

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
Credit ratings of RTD’s portfolio, as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, are exhibited in the table
below. While all portfolio holdings adhere to RTD’s investment policy and applicable statute,
not all investment holdings are rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations. Investments rated AAA, AA and A are from the Fitch rating service.
Investments rated A-1+/P-1 are from the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating services,
respectively. The securities falling within the non-rated categories below are either money
market funds which seek their returns through investments in high-quality short-term debt
obligations, securities issued by U.S. government agencies, or repurchase agreements
collateralized with securities issued by the U.S. government and government sponsored
enterprises (U.S. Agencies).
At December 31, 2014, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings
consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Fitch Ratings)
AA (Fitch Ratings)
A
A-1+/P-1
Total:

Market Value
$ 406,613
64,773
22,550
180,613
$ 674,549

At December 31, 2013, the Regional Transportation District’s investment credit ratings
consisted of the following:
Investment Ratings
AAA (Fitch Ratings)
AA (Fitch Ratings)
A
A-1+/P-1
Non-rated Agency Securities:
Securities issued by FHLB (rated AAA
Moody’s), FMLMC (rated AAA Moody’s
and AAA Fitch) and FNMA (rated AAA
Moody’s and AAA Fitch).
Total:

Market Value
$ 351,394
63,356
29,691
211,138
10,026
$ 665,605

Concentration of Credit Risk, it is the policy of RTD to diversify its investment portfolio.
Assets held in the investment funds shall be diversified to eliminate the risk of loss resulting
from over-concentration of assets in a specific maturity, a specific issue or a specific class of
securities. The asset allocation in the portfolio should, however, be flexible, depending upon
the outlook for the economy and the securities markets.
RTD’s investment policy outlines the following maximum exposure limits for unrestricted
investments. As of December 31, 2014, RTD was in compliance with these limits. As of
December 31, 2013, RTD was in compliance with limitations set out in RTD’s previous
investment policy limitations.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

50
Packet Pg. 137

NOTE B – DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
Investment Type

1

U.S. Treasury Securities
U.S Agencies 1
Municipal Bonds of a
Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds of a
non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds, Short
Term
Pre-Refunded Muni
Bonds
Corporate bonds
Commercial Paper
Time Deposits/CD
Bankers Acceptances
Repurchase
agreements
Local Government
Investment Pools
Money market funds

Maximum
Portfolio %
100%
75%
20%

Maximum
Issue %
100%
25%
3%

Maturity
Restrictions
5 years
5 years
5 years

Rating
Restrictions
N/A
AA
A

20%

3%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

5 years

“A-1 or “MIG 1”

40%

5%

3 years

AA

20%
40%
10%
20%
50%

3%
3%
3%
3%
10%

3 years
270 days
1 year
1 year
90 days

AA
A-1/P1/F1
AA
AA
AA

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

In the event that one or more nationally recognized statistical rating agency rates such Agency
obligations below the highest rating category, but no lower than one of the two highest rating categories,
RTD’s funds may continue to be invested in Agencies if such investments satisfy the requirements of
CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) which limits the maturity from the date of settlement to three years, provided that
the book value limits of CRS 24.75.601.1 (m) (II) shall not apply. Rather, the diversification limit shall be
set as follows: no more than 75% of the portfolio may be invested in Agencies, with any more than 25%
being invested in any one Agency.

Proceeds from the issuance of RTD’s obligations are invested in accordance with legal
documentation governing the transaction, notwithstanding any provisions of RTD’s investment
policy to the contrary, and do not fall within the maximum exposure limits listed above.
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, RTD had $883,409 and $862,250 of cash and investments
that were restricted under the provisions of bond agreements.

NOTE C - OTHER ASSETS
Other Assets consist of:
2014
Prepaid expenses
Eagle P3 construction escrow
City of Arvada escrow
Park Creek Metro escrow
Other constuction escrow
Assets held for sale
Total Other Assets

$

3,930
30,976
2,606
577
273
2,418
40,780

$

2013
$

$

3,934
43,035
2,606
221
5,036
54,832

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

51
Packet Pg. 138

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2014 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2014
12/31/2013
Additions
Capital assets not being
depreciated:
Land
$
265,577
$
42,986
Construction in progress
2,466,091
862,701
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
2,731,668
905,687
Capital assets being
depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated
Less accumulated
depreciation:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total accumulated
depreciation
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
Capital assets, net
$

2014
Deletions

Balances
12/31/2014

$

$

5,131
574,730

303,432
2,754,062

579,861

3,057,494

1,981,746
257,481
798,642

208,677
222,983
91,264

6,553
134
32,161

2,183,870
480,330
857,745

143,790

8,820

4,472

148,138

3,181,659

531,744

43,320

3,670,083

543,471
171,842
400,695

83,968
11,401
30,509

4,880
125
32,038

622,559
183,118
399,166

100,584

13,167

4,472

109,279

1,216,592

139,045

41,515

1,314,122

1,965,067
4,696,735

392,699
$ 1,298,386

1,805
$ 581,666

2,355,961
$ 5,413,455

Depreciation expense was $139,045 and $127,256 for years 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

52
Packet Pg. 139

NOTE D – CAPITAL ASSETS (CONTINUED)

Capital asset activity as of December 31, 2013 was as follows:
(In Thousands)
Balances
2013
12/31/2012
Additions
Capital assets not being
depreciated:
Land
$
189,910
$
77,064
Construction in progress
2,455,406
769,359
Total capital assets not being
depreciated
2,645,316
846,423
Capital assets being
depreciated:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total capital assets being
depreciated
Less accumulated
depreciation:
Land improvements
Buildings
Revenue earning equipment
Shop, maintenance and other
equipment
Total accumulated
depreciation
Total capital assets being
depreciated, net
Capital assets, net
$

2013
Deletions

Balances
12/31/2013

$

$

1,397
758,674

265,577
2,466,091

760,071

2,731,668

1,368,548
257,881
781,528

613,198
76
33,903

476
16,789

1,981,746
257,481
798,642

111,853

34,879

2,942

143,790

2,519,810

682,056

20,207

3,181,659

471,143
165,712
383,839

72,328
6,143
33,594

13
16,738

543,471
171,842
400,695

88,304

15,191

2,911

100,584

1,108,998

127,256

19,662

1,216,592

1,410,812
4,056,128

554,800
$ 1,401,223

545
$ 760,616

1,965,067
$ 4,696,735

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

53
Packet Pg. 140

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of December 31:
2014
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A,
due serially on November 1 of each year through 2036,
issued with coupons between from 4.00% to 4.50% payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year;
including discount of ($1,121) and ($1,172) for 2014 and 2013,
respectively. In 2014, The District did a Modification and
Exchange on these Bonds, it resulted in a premium with an
ending balance of $17,003 for 2014.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A, due serially
on November 1 of each year through 2024, issued with a
5.25% coupon, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year; including premium of $5,496 and
$6,055 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially
on November 1 of each year through 2017, issued with
coupons between 3.00% and 5.00%, payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 of each year, including premium of
$2,353 and $3,184 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Subordinate Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010,
Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) with
principal and interest due on February 1 and August 1 of
every year through February 2040, with a coupon of 5.85%.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A, due serially
on November 1 of 2037 and 2038, issued with coupon of
5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of
each year, including premium of $2,128 and $2,217 for 2014
and 2013, respectively.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds Taxable (Direct Pay Build
America Bonds), Series 2010B, due serially on November 1
of 2046 through 2050, issued with coupon of 5.844%, payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A, due serially
on November 1 of 2023 and 2037, issued with coupon of
3.0% and 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year, including premium of $65,014 and
$67,862 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, due serially
on November 1 of 2013 and 2021, issued with coupon of
.25% and 2.207%, payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year; including premium of $498 and
$571 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Sales Tax FasTracks Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A,
due serially on November 1 of 2027 and 2036, issued with
coupon of 4.25% and 5.0%, payable semiannually on May 1
and November 1 of each year; including premium of $42,635
and $44,587 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.

$

376,193

2013

$

359,653

75,321

75,879

21,688

32,274

157,064

159,727

81,268

81,357

300,000

300,000

539,949

542,797

78,443

91,296

247,455

249,407

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

54
Packet Pg. 141

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
2013

2014
TIFIA Sales Tax FasTracks Loan, due on May 1 of 2025 thru
2045, loaned with coupon of 3.14% and interest capitalized
thru November 1, 2020. Payable semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 of each year from 2021 thru 2045.
Certificates of Participation Refunding Obligations, Series 2004A,
under a lease agreement for acquisition of transit buses and
vehicles, payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 to 2014, issued with coupons between 3.5% and
5.00%, including premium of $0 and $297 for 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2005A, under a
lease agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles,
payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1
to 2015, issued with coupons between 3.50% and 5.00%,
including premium of $151 and $513 for 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
Certificates of Participation Taxable Refunding Obligations,
Series 2007A, under a lease agreement for acquisition of
transit buses and vehicles, payments are due semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 to 2021, issued with a 5.535%
coupon.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Amended and Restated
Series 2002A, under a lease agreement for acquisition of
transit vehicles and facilities, payments are due semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 to 2022, issued with coupons
between 4.00% and 5.00%, including premium of $4,206 and
$4,738 for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2010A, under a
lease purchase agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles,
construct, install and improve certain equipment and other
capital projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1
and December 1 to 2031, issued with coupons between
3.00% and 5.50%, including premium of $2,789 and $3,149
for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Certificates of Participation Taxable (Direct Pay Build America
Bonds), Obligations, Series 2010B, under a lease purchase
agreement for acquisition of light rail vehicles, construct,
install and improve certain equipment and other capital
projects. Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and
December 1 through 2040, issued with a coupon of 7.672%.
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2013A, as Lessee
Under an Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement.
Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1
to 2027, issued with coupons between 2.00% and 5.00%,
including premium of $32,566 and $35,189 for 2014 and
2013, respectively.

$

212,282

$

126,093

-

7,427

5,336

10,658

10,135

11,300

95,206

104,843

199,074

205,655

100,000

100,000

253,901

259,233

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

55
Packet Pg. 142

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
2014
Certificates of Participation Obligations, Series 2014A, as Lessee
Under an Annually Renewable Lease Purchase Agreement.
Payments are due semiannually on June 1 and December 1
to 2044, issued with coupons between 4.125% and 5.00%,
including premium of $24,993 and $0 for 2014 and 2013,
respectively.

$

465,908

2013

$

3,219,223
Less current portion

(

54,348)

$ 3,164,875

-

2,717,599
(

57,002)

$ 2,660,597

The Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are payable from and secured by RTD’s sales and use tax
revenue. RTD is required to maintain certain minimum deposits, as defined in the bond
resolution, to meet debt service requirements. The bonds may be redeemed in inverse order of
maturity, at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued interest thereon to the date of
redemption and a premium Sales Tax Revenue Bonds debt service requirements to maturity are
as follows:
Year ending
December 31,
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020-2024
2025-2029
2030-2034
2035-2039
2040-2044
2045-2049
2050-2054

TIFIA
Capitalized
Interest
$
14,110
14,110
14,110
$ 42,330

Principal
$
26,438
27,043
27,573
28,212
20,818
120,927
375,052
463,593
396,262
142,394
260,155
67,190
$1,955,657

Interest
$ 84,101
83,490
82,820
81,932
80,930
422,638
378,580
272,673
162,066
111,295
71,649
3,927
$1,836,101

Total
$ 110,539
110,533
110,393
110,144
101,748
543,565
767,742
750,376
572,438
253,689
331,804
71,117
$3,834,088

Certificates of Participation are issued by Regional Transportation District Asset Acquisition
Authority, Inc., a nonprofit corporation. The Authority issued Certificates of Participation
(Certificates) with the proceeds being used to acquire certain equipment and facilities to be
used by RTD as well as for construction of the North Metro commuter rail line. RTD leases the
equipment acquired and elements constructed with the proceeds from the Certificates under
separate Master Lease Purchase Agreements. For financial reporting purposes, RTD accounts
for the Certificates as its own obligations.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

56
Packet Pg. 143

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
Annual repayment requirements on the Certificates to maturity are as follows:
Year ending December 31,
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020-2024
2025-2029
2030-2034
2035-2039
2040-2044

Principal
$ 27,910
34,655
31,325
37,440
37,205
242,515
180,375
160,825
159,500
153,105
$ 1,064,855

Interest
$ 54,661
53,232
51,663
50,079
48,298
206,666
148,673
107,732
59,574
18,301
$ 798,879

Total
$ 82,571
87,887
82,988
87,519
85,503
449,181
329,048
268,557
219,074
171,406
$1,863,734

Changes in Long-Term Liabilities
Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2014, was as follows:
Balance
2014
2014
Balance
Due Within
12/31/2013 Additions Reductions 12/31/2014
One Year
$ 26,438
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds $1,895,180 $ 86,189 $ 25,712 $1,955,657
655,230
440,915
31,290
1,064,855
27,910
Certificates of Participation
Issuance premiums and
discounts
167,189
198,711
42,486
10,964
569,590
67,966
3,219,223
54,348
Total Bonds-COPs Payable 2,717,599
191,626
34,483
226,109
Other liabilities*
$ 54,348
$2,909,225 $ 604,073 $ 67,966 $3,445,332
Total long-term liabilities
*Other liabilities consist of Net Pension Obligation liability reflecting the cumulative differences between
pension cost and employer’s contributions to the plan, Eagle P3 finance charge liability, 2007 Sales Tax
arbitrage call modification liability and the CCD Aviation Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).

Long-term liability activity for the year ended December 31, 2013, was as follows:
Balance
2013
2013
Balance
Due Within
12/31/2012 Additions Reductions 12/31/2013 One Year
Sales Tax Revenue Bonds $1,828,762 $ 427,493 $ 361,075 $1,895,180
$ 25,712
Certificates of Participation
494,950
224,045
63,765
655,230
31,290
Issuance premiums and
discounts
108,668
167,189
83,457
24,936
Total Bonds-COPs Payable 2,432,380
734,995
449,776 2,717,599
57,002
Other liabilities*
171,717
19,909
191,626
Total long-term liabilities

$2,604,097 $ 754,904

$ 449,776 $2,909,225

$ 57,002

*Other liabilities consist of Net Pension Obligation liability reflecting the cumulative differences between
pension cost and employer’s contributions to the plan, Eagle P3 finance charge liability and CCD Aviation
IGA.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

57
Packet Pg. 144

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
In prior years, RTD defeased certain obligations by placing the proceeds of new obligations in
an irrevocable trust to provide for all future service payments on the old obligations. Accordingly,
the trust account assets and the liability for the defeased obligations are not included in these
financial statements. Outstanding as of December 31, 2014 are the following amounts which
are considered defeased:
2006A ST FT Bonds
2004A & 2005A ST Bonds
2005A COPs
2007A ST FT Bonds

FasTracks Facilities and Equipment
Senior Sales Tax Escrow
FasTracks Escrow
FasTracks Facilities and Equipment

$ 369,562
$ 93,886
$ 38,900
$ 254,195

In July 2014, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation, Series 2014A in the par amount of
$440,915 with an average interest rate of 4.46% for the purpose of funding the construction of
the North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union Station to approximately 124th Avenue. Certain
proceeds were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for the certificates and pay for
related costs of issuance. The final maturity of the certificates is in 2044.
In 2014, RTD drew $80,000 from the Transportation Infrastructure and Innovation Act (TIFIA)
loan. Under the TIFIA loan authorization, RTD may draw up to $280,000. The draws from the
TIFIA loan will be used to pay for “Eligible Project Costs” on RTD’s Eagle Project. The interest
rate on the TIFIA loan is 3.14% with principal and interest payments anticipated to begin in 2025
and final maturity expected in 2045. The TIFIA loan will be used to complement the other
sources of debt, resulting in a lower cost of funding than would have otherwise been available in
the capital markets. The first TIFIA draw of $125,000 was made in 2013 with the remaining
$75,000 of the $280,000 authorization to be drawn in futures years. The TIFIA loan is secured
by a pledge of RTD’s 0.4% FasTracks sales and use tax.
In December 2014, RTD entered into a Modification and Exchange agreement with Citibank
N.A. who owned certain of the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2007A. The agreement modified the call dates on the affected bonds from November 1,
2017 to November 1, 2024. The affected bonds which were all owned by Citibank N.A. were as
follows:

Maturity

11/1/2030
11/1/2031
11/1/2032
11/1/2033
11/1/2035

Outstanding
Principal
Amount
$ 56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
64,300,000
70,220,000

Principal
Amount Owned
by Citibank
$ 56,375,000
33,915,000
36,535,000
34,000,000
60,000,000

Original
CUSIP for
2007A
Percentage
Bonds
of Maturity
Owned by
Owned by
Citibank
Citibank
100.00%
759136NM2
100.00
759136NN0
100.00
759136NP5
52.88
759136NQ3
85.45
759136NS9

New CUSIP for
Amended
Bonds
759136NSQ8
759136NSR6
759136NSS4
759136NST2
759136NSV7

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

58
Packet Pg. 145

NOTE E – LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
The 2007A bonds that are not owned by Citibank N.A. were not affected by this Modification
and Exchange agreement. Proceeds of the agreement were $17,068 of which $552 was used
for costs and RTD accrued a long term arbitrage liability of $2,620.
In March 2013, RTD issued its Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A in
the par amount of $96,580 with an average interest rate of 1.44% for the purpose of advance
refunding the Series 2004A and 2005A Sales Tax Revenue Bonds with an average interest rate
of 5.00%. The proceeds of the 2013A bonds were deposited with the escrow bank and invested
in government obligations maturing at such time and in such amounts as required to provide
funds sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the refunded bonds as they become due.
The Series 2004A and 2005A bonds had required debt service payments of $131,949 and the
Series 2013A bonds require debt service payments of $102,055. The refunding achieved an
economic gain (difference between the present value of the debt service on the old and new
bonds) of 4.19% or $4,378.
In April 2013, RTD issued its Certificates of Participation Series 2013A in the par amount of
$224,045 with an average interest rate of 4.72% for both the purpose of advance refunding the
then outstanding Series 2005 Certificates of Participation in the amount of $52,920 with an
average interest rate of 4.83% and the acquisition of buses and ticket vending machines for use
in RTD’s operations. Certain proceeds were also used to fund a debt service reserve fund for
the Certificates. The Series 2005 certificates had required debt service payment of $52,196 and
the Series 2013A certificates require debt service payments of $45,857. The refunding achieved
economic gain (difference between the present value of the debt service on the old and new
bonds) of 6.93% or $2,633.
In May 2013, RTD issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series
2013A in the par amount of $204,820 with an average interest rate of 4.85% for the purpose of
advance refunding the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2006A with an
average interest rate of 4.75%. The proceeds of the 2013A FasTracks bonds were deposited
with the escrow bank and invested in government obligations maturing at such time and in such
amounts as required to provide funds sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the refunded
bonds as they become due. The Series 2006A bonds had required debt service payments of
$430,956 and the Series 2013A FasTracks bonds require debt service payments of $376,798.
The refunding achieved economic gain (difference between the present value of the debt
service on the old and new bonds) of 5.50% or $12,972.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

59
Packet Pg. 146

NOTE F– EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
Plan Description
RTD maintains two single-employer defined benefit pension plans and one defined contribution
plan for substantially all full-time employees. The Regional Transportation District Salaried
Employees’ Pension Plan (the RTD Plan) covers all non-union, full-time salaried employees
whom were hired prior to January 1, 2008. The RTD defined contribution plan (the RTD DC
Plan) represents full-time salaried employees hired after January 1, 2008. The Regional
Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Pension Plan (the Union
Plan) was established pursuant to collective bargaining agreements between RTD and the
Union. This plan covers substantially all full-time union-represented employees in accordance
with the union agreement. The Board of Directors of each plan has the authority for establishing
and amending benefits and funding policy. Each plan is administered by a pension board and
issues audited financial statements, which include financial information for that plan. Those
financial statements may be obtained from the plan:
Regional Transportation District
Salaried Employees Pension Trust
7000 North Broadway, Building 106
Denver, Colorado 80221

RTD ATU 1001 Pension Plan
2821 S. Parker Road
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

The RTD Plan provides retirement benefits to RTD salaried employees who retire at or after
age 55 with at least five years of service. These employees are entitled to a single lump sum
distribution or an annual retirement benefit, payable monthly for life. The normal retirement
benefit is equal to 2.5% of average final compensation to which a participant is entitled on the
day the participant retires, multiplied by the number of years of credited service.
The RTD Board adopted amendment No. 8, effective January 1, 2008, in which salaried
employee new hires shall not be eligible to participate in the RTD Plan. New salaried employees
will be eligible to participate in the new RTD DC Plan. The Board of Directors for the RTD DC
Plan has the authority for establishing and amending benefits and funding policy. RTD
contributes 9% of the employee’s qualifying wage. Contributions totaled $2,394 and $1,884 in
2014 and 2013, respectively. RTD employees cannot contribute to the RTD DC Plan.
Membership was 392 and 322 active employees in 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition,
RTD has one employee in 2014 and 2013 participating in both the RTD plan and the RTD DC
Plan due to a compensation level in excess of the 2014-2013 compensation limits imposed
under IRC section 401(a) (17).
The Union Plan provides retirement benefits to employees who retire at or after a certain age
with at least a specified number of years of service. These employees are entitled to a
percentage of their final average earnings based on age and credited service at retirement.
The following schedule (derived from the most recent actuarial valuation reports) reflects
membership for the plans as of January 1, 2014:
RTD Plan
Active employees
Pensioners
Inactive vests

382
222
112
716

Total

Union Plan
1,581
1,363
1,226
4,170

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

60
Packet Pg. 147

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Funding Policy
Contributions to the RTD Plan are actuarially determined. RTD employees are not required to
contribute to the RTD Plan. Contributions to the Union Plan are made in accordance with the
collective bargaining agreement. This agreement requires RTD to contribute 8% and the
employee to contribute 3% of the employee’s qualifying wages. Effective March 1, 2013 RTD is
to contribute 12% and the employee to contribute 4%. RTD has no liability to the Union Plan
beyond its contributions.
Funding Status
Based on actuarial valuations performed as of January 1, 2014, the RTD Plan had unfunded
actuarial accrued liabilities of $19,890 and the Union Plan had unfunded actuarial accrued
liabilities of $218,837. The actuarial value of assets for both plans is determined by spreading
gains and losses over a five-year period.
Schedule of Funding Progress – RTD Plan

Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/14

Actuarial
Value of
Assets
$ 113,743

Actuarial
Accrued
Liability
$ 133,633

Funding
Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (19,890)

Funding
Ratio
85.12%

Unfunded
Actuarial
Liability as %
Annual
of Covered
Covered
Payroll
Payroll
$ 31,193
(63.76%)

Funding
Ratio
48.66%

Unfunded
Actuarial
Liability as %
Annual
of Covered
Covered
Payroll
Payroll
$ 81,040
(270.03%)

Schedule of Funding Progress – Union Plan
Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/14

Actuarial
Value of
Assets
$ 207,435

Actuarial
Accrued
Liability
$ 426,272

Funding
Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (218,837)

The schedule of funding progress presented as Required Supplementary Information following
the notes to the financial statements provides multi-year trend information about whether the
actuarial value of plan assets is increasing or decreasing over time relative to the actual accrued
liability.
Three-year Trend Information – RTD Plan
Annual pension
cost (APC)
RTD Pension Plan
Year-end December 31,
2012
2013
2014

$ 3,372
4,345
5,538

Percentage of
APC
Contributed
85%
71%
56%

Net Pension
Obligation
$ 3,892
5,137
7,575

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

61
Packet Pg. 148

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Annual Pension Cost and Net Pension Obligation
RTD Pension Plan NPO Liability
Disclosure
Actuarially Determined Contribution
(ARC)
Interest on NPO
Adjustment
Annual Pension Cost (APC)
Contribution Made
Increase NPO
NPO Beginning of year
NPO Ending of year

2014

2013

2012

$ 5,682
385
(529)
5,538
3,100
2,438
5,137
$ 7,575

$ 4,444
292
(391)
4,345
3,100
1,245
3,892
$ 5,137

$ 3,450
254
(332)
3,372
2,865
507
3,385
$ 3,892

Percentage of
APC Contributed
cost (APC)
$ 19,679
34%
21,649
45%
19,530
52%

Net Pension
Obligation
$ 47,006
58,944
68,348

Three-Year Trend Information – Union Plan
ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Annual pension
Year-end December 31,
2012
2013
2014

Annual Pension Cost and Net Pension Obligation
ATU 1001 Pension Plan NPO
2014
Liability Disclosure
Actuarially Determined Contribution
(ARC)
$ 18,752
Interest on NPO
4,112
Adjustment
(3,334)
Annual Pension Cost (APC)
19,530
Contribution Made
10,126
Increase NPO
9,404
NPO Beginning of year
58,944
$ 68,348
NPO Ending of year

2013

2012

$ 21,029
3,278
(2,658)
21,649
9,711
11,938
47,006
$ 58,944

$ 19,234
2,351
(1,906)
19,679
6,658
13,021
33,985
$47,006

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

62
Packet Pg. 149

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Actuarial Methods and Assumptions
RTD annual pension cost for the current year, based on actuarial valuation plans performed as
of January 1, 2014, and related information for each plan, is as follows:
Contribution rates RTD
Contribution rates Employees
Annual pension cost
Contributions made
Actuarial valuation date
Actuarial cost method
Amortization method
Remaining amortization period
Asset valuation method
Actuarial assumptions:
Inflation/Payroll Growth
Investment rate of return
Projected salary increases

17 Years
5-Year Smoothed Market
Value (20% Corridor)

ATU 1001 Pension Plan
12%
4%
$ 19,530
$ 10,126
January 1, 2014
Individual Entry Age
Level percentage of payroll;
open
30 years
5-Year Smoothed Market
Value (20% Corridor)

3.5% to 8.5%
7.5%
Age based table

3%
7%
3-7%

RTD Pension Plan
$3,100/year
$ 5,538
$ 3,100
January 1, 2014
Entry Age Normal
Level-dollar; closed

Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
The Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Health and Welfare Trust was formed pursuant
to a Trust Agreement effective July 1, 1971, between Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001
(ATU 1001) and an agent of a transit enterprise owned by the City and County of Denver,
through July 3, 1974, and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) thereafter. In addition to
the original Denver Metro Division, employees of other RTD divisions have been approved for
participation in the Trust benefits. The Trust agreement shall continue in full force and effect in
all its terms and provisions so long as there continues to be a collective bargaining agreement
between the Union and RTD.
The Trust provides health benefits (hospital, medical, dental, vision, life and short-term
disability) for represented employees of RTD and certain officers of ATU 1001 and health care
benefits for retired employees actively working 600 hours or more per quarter. The Trust is
funded through contribution by the employer and employee, the share of benefit plan
contributions is set by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). RTD’s contribution was
$13,876 and $11,727 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Trust
also provides insurance coverage for felonious assault for each employee and funds the
Amalgamated Transit Union Division 1001 Legal Services Trust. The Trust self-insures part of
its health benefits, life insurance coverage and short-term disability. The plan issues audited
financial statements, which include financial information for the plan. The financial statements
may be obtained from the plan.
RTD ATU 1001 Health and Welfare Trust
2821 S. Parker Road, Suite 1005
Aurora, Colorado 80014-2602

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

63
Packet Pg. 150

NOTE F – EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT AND UNEARNED COMPENSATION PLANS
(CONTINUED)
Unearned Compensation Plan
RTD offers its employees an unearned compensation plan (the Plan), created in accordance
with Internal Revenue Code Section 457, which is available to substantially all employees and
permits them to defer a portion of their compensation to future years. Under the terms of the
Plan, the unearned compensation is available to participants upon termination, retirement, death
or in the event of an unforeseeable emergency or other financial hardship.
Compensated Absences
RTD considers all accrued compensated absences as due within one year. Employees accrue
paid time off (PTO), vacation, and sick leave based on time in service; employees are not
allowed to accumulate more than twice their annual PTO or vacation accrual and sick leave
based on years of service. Employees are paid any outstanding compensated absence
balances upon leaving RTD. RTD records these accrued compensated absences as current
liabilities under the principle of conservatism by assuming these amounts are the most RTD
would be obligated to pay in the near-term.
Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2014, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated
absences due

12/31/2013
Balance
$ 2,209
9,180

2014
Accruals
$ 1,491
5,882

2014
Payments
$ 1,241
5,317

12/31/2014
Balance
$ 2,459
9,745

$11,389

$ 7,373

$ 6,558

$12,204

Compensated absences activity for the year ended December 31, 2013, was as follows:

Represented employees
Salaried employees
Total compensated
absences due

12/31/2012
Balance
$ 2,157
8,325

2013
Accruals
$ 1,241
5,317

2013
Payments
$ 1,189
4,462

12/31/2013
Balance
$ 2,209
9,180

$10,482

$6,558

$5,651

$11,389

The accrued compensation liabilities of $20,809 and $19,384 as of December 31, 2014 and
December 31, 2013, include $8,605 and $7,995 of accrued wages, salaries, and fringe benefits
in addition to accrued compensated absences.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

64
Packet Pg. 151

NOTE G – OPERATING LEASES – LESSOR
Union Station Alliance (USA) Lease
In December 2013, RTD entered a contract with Union Station Alliance (USA) to renovate and
lease RTD’s historic Denver Union Station Building. The renovation by USA includes a hotel,
Amtrak facilities, office space, retail and restaurant services as well as renovation of the Great
Train Hall. The agreement includes a 60 year lease to USA to operate and maintain this facility
in which RTD will participate in certain revenue collections.
NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
Operating Lease
In 1976, RTD entered into an operating lease for a portion of the land on which the Civic Center
transfer facility is located in downtown Denver. As collateral for the lease, RTD must maintain an
account balance with a minimum market value of $1,500 in an escrow account, the interest on
which accrues to RTD until the lease expires. This amount in escrow is included in restricted
assets in the accompanying financial statements.
Operating Leases
Fixed rental commitments under the lease in years subsequent to December 31, 2014, are as
follows:
Year ending December 31,
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020-2024
2025-2029
2030-2034
2035-2039
2040-2044
2045-2049
2050-2054
2055-2059
2060-2064
2065-2069
2070-2074
2075

$

257
259
262
265
267
1,377
1,448
1,521
1,599
1,680
1,766
1,856
1,951
2,051
2,155
2,265
467

$ 21,446
Rental expense relating to this lease amounted to $254 and $252 for the years ended
December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

65
Packet Pg. 152

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
RTD has entered into a number of transactions in which certain of its light rail vehicles have
been leased to and subleased back from certain U.S. and foreign companies and has entered
into a transaction in which its maintenance facilities have been leased to and subleased back.
As part of these transactions, RTD irrevocably set aside certain monies (which were received
from each counter party as payment for its leasing of light rail vehicles and real property) with a
third party trustee. The monies held by such trustees will be utilized to make the lease payments
owed by the RTD under the transactions and are therefore considered fully funded and
economically defeased.
U.S. Leveraged Lease
In July and December 1997, RTD entered into two U.S. leveraged lease agreements with Pitney
Bowes Credit Corporation for the lease and leaseback of 17 light rail vehicles and four
transportation and maintenance facilities. RTD has made investment arrangements to meet all
its payment obligations throughout the terms of the leases. A termination agreement was
executed and final payment on this defeased lease was made in March 2015.
Capital Projects
As of December 31, 2014, RTD has contracts for the construction of various capital projects and
the purchase of buses and light rail vehicles. The costs to complete these projects and the
purchase of buses/light rail vehicles total $483,272 and $514,934 in 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
Grant Match Requirements
Under the provisions of current grants, RTD is obligated to satisfy certain matching
requirements of these grants. At December 31, 2014, RTD had a commitment to provide
$16,130 in matching funds in order to receive $50,301 in future federal grant funds.
Privatization Contracts
In response to the privatization legislation (Note A), RTD has awarded contracts for specific
groups of routes, not to exceed 58% as required by law for vehicular services. As of January
2014, slightly over 52.37% of RTD’s non-rail transit services are delivered by private contractors
operating under the auspices and direction of RTD.
ADA Paratransit Service
With the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), RTD was mandated to
provide paratransit service to the disabled individuals unable to use RTD’s fixed route buses,
operating the same days and hours of service as the fixed route service. This service, called
Access-a-Ride, is a curb-to-curb (with door-to-door assistance upon special request)
transportation system offered to disabled individuals who cannot functionally use RTD’s regular
fixed route system. Passengers eligible for Access-a-Ride service must originate their trip
within 3/4 of a mile of an RTD non-commuter fixed route. Since September 1996, RTD has
been in full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requirement to provide
paratransit service to the disabled individuals unable to use fixed route buses.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

66
Packet Pg. 153

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED
Future Commitments under Construction Contracts
In 2010, RTD entered into a public-private partnership to design, build, finance and operate
several of the transit improvements contemplated under the FasTracks program, including the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility, the East Corridor, the Gold Line Rail Corridor and the
electrified segment of the Northwest Rail Corridor (together, the “Eagle P3 Project). The Eagle
P3 Project is being delivered and operated under a concession agreement that RTD has
entered into with a concessionaire that has been selected through a competitive proposal
process. The selected concessionaire is known as Denver Transit Partners (DTP), a special
purpose company owned by Fluor Enterprises, Uberior Investments and Laing Investments.
The Eagle P3 Project construction will be completed in two phases with Phase I completed in
2016 and Phase II completed in 2017. Under the terms of the Eagle P3 Project agreement, RTD
will make scheduled construction payments to DTP each year from 2011 through 2017 for
completed project elements totaling $1,064,592. RTD will assume ownership of the Eagle P3
Project elements as they are constructed. In addition, RTD will make scheduled secured
principal and interest payments to DTP from 2017 through 2044 for the remaining Eagle P3
Project obligation totaling $1,438,234 resulting in a total project cost through 2044 of
$2,502,826. The Eagle P3 Project agreement also includes a provision whereby, upon project
completion and placement in service, DTP will operate and maintain the Eagle P3 Project during
the period 2016 through 2044 for which RTD will make service payments.
In 2011, RTD entered an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) to provide funding for 18 miles of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) elements
between Denver and Boulder along the U.S. 36 highway. The funding will provide slip ramps
and access improvements to Park-n-Rides along the corridor in addition to transit related
improvements such as shared lanes along U.S. 36. The IGA requires funding of $141,570 from
RTD to CDOT of which $90,000 has been paid through December 31, 2014. The remaining
$51,570 will be paid in future years.
In 2012, RTD entered a contract with Kiewit Infrastructure Company to complete the 10.5 mile I225 light rail line, extending from the currently existing Nine Mile station to connect the
Southeast Line to the East Line. The I-225 Line is being completed in coordination with the
Colorado Department of Transportation’s I-225 highway project and will open in 2016 to provide
connectivity to major activity centers like the Aurora City Center, Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical
Center and Denver International Airport through a transfer at Peoria to the East Rail Line.
In December 2013, RTD entered a contract with Regional Rail Partners to construct the North
Metro Rail Line. The North Metro Rail Line is an 18.5-mile electric commuter rail line that will
run from Denver Union Station through Commerce City, Thornton and Northglenn to Highway 7
at 162nd Avenue in North Adams County. The contract includes funding for the completion of
the rail line through 124th Avenue in 2018 with an option to construct the remaining segments
through 162nd Avenue.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

67
Packet Pg. 154

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
Future Commitments under Service Contracts
The fixed commitments under the Privatization contracts in the years subsequent to 2014 are as
follows:
Year ending December 31,
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Total

$ 125,550
114,122
101,414
96,004
44,290
$ 481,380

Diesel Fuel Contract
RTD contracts with Mansfield Oil Co of Gainesville, Inc. for diesel fuel. The contract is
structured as a single year contract. The fixed commitment under the Mansfield contract in
2015 is $15,989. RTD estimates usage of 9.8 million gallons at unit cost of $2.95 per gallon:
5.42 million RTD usage and 4.38 million RTD private carriers usage.
Contingencies
Federal Grants
RTD receives federal grants for capital projects and operating assistance, which are subject to
audit by FTA. Although the outcome of any such audit cannot be predicted, it is management’s
opinion these audits will not result in liabilities to such an extent that they would materially affect
RTD’s financial position.
Self-Insurance
RTD is self-insured for general liability and Workers’ Compensation claims. Liabilities are
reported when it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. In addition, RTD offers a self-insured health benefit option as part of its
employee benefits program in which costs are recognized as they are incurred.
RTD does not carry excess liability insurance for personal injury and property damage. Under
the provisions of the Colorado Government Immunity Act, the maximum liability, with certain
exceptions as defined in the Act, to RTD for claims involving personal injury and property
damage is $350 per individual and $990 per incident.
For Workers’ Compensation, an excess coverage insurance policy covers individual claims in
excess of $2,000. The amount of settlements has not exceeded insurance coverage in any of
the past three years.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

68
Packet Pg. 155

NOTE H – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
RTD’s liability for unpaid claims includes an amount for claims that have been incurred but not
reported (IBNR). RTD’s Risk Management determines incurred claims by investigating the
accident and establishing a reserve. Reserves are established on the day of assignment,
reviewed at 30 days and again at 90 days. Reserves are reviewed every 90 days thereafter and
based on ultimate exposure. This amount is included in other accrued expenses in the
statement of net assets. Changes in the balances of claims liabilities for both general liability
and Worker’s Compensation during the past year are as follows:
General
Liability

Workers’
Compensation

Total

Unpaid claims, January 1, 2013
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

$ 2,152
1,969
(2,092)

$ 2,522
3,207
(2,380)

$ 4,674
5,176
(4,472)

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2013
Incurred claims (including IBNR)
Claims payments

$ 2,029
3,123
(2,461)

$ 3,349
2,114
(2,618)

$ 5,378
5,237
(5,079)

Unpaid claims, December 31, 2014*

$ 2,691

$ 2,845

$ 5,536

*All claim liabilities are considered current liabilities payable within one year.
Contract Disputes and Legal Proceedings
RTD is party to a number of pending or threatened lawsuits under which it may be required to
pay certain amounts upon final disposition of these matters. RTD’s legal counsel estimates that
the ultimate outcome of these matters is either sufficiently covered by RTD’s general liability and
Workers’ Compensation reserves or would not materially affect the financial statements of
RTD. As of December 31, 2014, RTD owed $7.8 million to the Denver International Airport
(DIA) for certain costs that are part of RTD’s Eagle Project Development. These costs are
payable as a result of an arbitration. RTD is not disputing this obligation, has budgeted for it
and will pay it before the end of 2015. DIA is seeking additional payments and has appealed the
arbitration that resulted in the undisputed amount.
RTD is party to a pending lawsuit in which the claimant is seeking a refund of previously paid
sales taxes on purchases of aviation fuel as well as the discontinuance of such future sales tax
payments. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has recently issued guidance regarding
state and local taxation of aviation fuel in which RTD may no longer be authorized to collect
such taxes and possibly refund some taxes previously collected.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

69
Packet Pg. 156

NOTE I – NET POSITION
December 31,
2014
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted net position
Restricted debt service and project related
TABOR emergency
FasTracks related
Total restricted net position

2013

$2,987,694

$2,788,100

109,822
19,193
45,523

77,795
18,304
40,032

3,162,232

2,924,231

1

Unrestricted net position

18,842

53,218

Total net position

$3,181,074

$2,977,449

1

Substantially all of the unrestricted net position, although not legally restricted, have been
appropriated or reserved by the RTD’s Board for future capital acquisition, operating reserve
policy, and debt liquidation during the budget process.
NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA
RTD’s annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the
budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as revenue and
expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal payments, and excludes TABOR
rebates under Amendment One, extraordinary loss and depreciation on, as well as gains and
losses on disposition of, property and equipment. The budget sets forth all proposed outlays for
operations, planning, administration, development, debt service, and capital outlays for the
calendar year. Prior to October 15, the General Manager submits to the Board of Directors a
proposed operating and capital budget for the fiscal year commencing the following January 1,
which is made available for public inspection and comment. On or before December 31, the
budget is adopted in conjunction with an appropriation resolution by the Board of Directors, who
must also approve subsequent amendments thereto. In the absence of such adoption, RTD
has authority to begin making expenditures limited to 90% of the prior year’s approved
appropriation. RTD’s policy on budget transfers authorizes the General Manager to approve
certain transfers within the budget.
A reconciliation for the years ended December 31 of the annual budget, as amended, to actual
revenue and expenses is as follows:
2014
2013
Revenue, actual
$ 732,194
$ 710,079
Proceeds from debt / arbitrage relief
573,324
693,841
Federal capital grants and local contributions
206,431
242,566
Revenue, actual (budgetary basis)
1,511,949
1,646,486
Revenue, budget
1,498,686
1,214,634
Expenses, actual
Capital outlays
Depreciation, amortization, other
Long-term debt principal payment
Expenses, actual (budgetary basis)
Appropriations
Unused appropriations

735,000
862,701
(139,045)
57,002
1,515,658
$2,653,183
$1,137,525

704,106
769,359
(127,256)
442,598
1,788,807
$2,587,977
$ 799,170

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

70
Packet Pg. 157

NOTE J – BUDGETARY DATA (CONTINUED)
Unused appropriations lapse at year-end, except the Board of Directors has the authority, as
stated in the adopted appropriation resolution, to carry over the unused portion of funds for
capital projects not completed, for a period not to exceed three years. As of December 31,
2014, there was approximately $809 of unused 2014 appropriations for capital outlays available
for carryover to 2015.
NOTE K – TAX, SPENDING AND DEBT LIMITATIONS
In November 1992, Colorado voters passed an amendment (Amendment One) to the State
Constitution (Article X, Section 20) that limits the revenue raising and spending abilities of state
and local governments known as the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights (TABOR). The limits on property
taxes, revenue, and “fiscal year spending” include allowable annual increases tied to inflation
and local growth in construction valuation. Fiscal year spending as defined by the amendment
excludes spending from certain revenue and financing sources such as federal funds, gifts,
property sales, fund transfers, damage awards, and fund reserves (balances). The amendment
requires voter approval for any increase in mill levy tax rates, new taxes, or creation of multiyear debt. Revenue earned in excess of the “spending limit” must be refunded to the taxpayers
unless voters approve retention of these revenues. In addition, the amendment mandates that
reserves equal 3% of fiscal spending be established for declared emergencies.
On November 7, 1995, the voters of the District exempted the Regional Transportation District
from the revenue and spending limitations concerning the Amendment through December 31,
2005. On November 2, 1999, the voters of the District further exempted RTD from the revenue
and spending limitations outlined in the Amendment for the purpose of paying any debt incurred
to finance the Southeast Corridor light rail project or to operate such project for as long as any
debt remains outstanding, but in no event beyond December 31, 2026.
On November 2, 2004, the voters of the District authorized an increase in RTD’s sales and use
tax rate from 0.6% to 1.0%, effective January 1, 2005, to finance the FasTracks transit
improvement program. This authorization also exempted RTD from any revenue and spending
limitations on the additional tax and on any investment income generated by the increased tax
revenue, and allowed RTD to incur debt to finance the capital improvements included in the
FasTracks program. At the time that all FasTracks debt is repaid, RTD’s sales and use tax rate
will be reduced to a rate sufficient to operate the rapid transit system financed through
FasTracks. RTD has $3.477 billion in authorized debt, subject to the Amendments’ limitations.
This debt was authorized by the voters of the District in 2004 to pay for the FasTracks rapid
transit improvement program. Based on estimated fiscal year spending for 2014, $19,193 of
year-end net position, as restated, has been reserved for emergencies.
The Amendment is complex and subject to judicial interpretation. RTD believes it is in
compliance with the requirements of the Amendment based on the interpretations of the
Amendment’s language available at year-end.

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Dollars in Thousands)

71
Packet Pg. 158

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

72

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 159

Required Supplementary Information
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Pension Plan Summary
As of December 31, 2014
Schedule of Funding Progress – RTD Plan

Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/12
1/1/13
1/1/14

Actuarial
Value of
Assets
$103,941
104,218
113,743

Actuarial
Accrued
Liability
$110,910
118,671
133,633

Funding
Excess
(Deficiency)
$ (6,967)
(14,453)
(19,890)

Funding
Ratio
93.72%
87.82%
85.12%

Unfunded
Actuarial
Liability as %
Annual
of Covered
Covered
Payroll
Payroll
$31,659
(22.0%)
31,447
(46.0%)
31,193
(63.8%)

Funding
Ratio
52,24%
47.52%
48.66%

Unfunded
Actuarial
Liability as %
Annual
of Covered
Covered
Payroll
Payroll
$79,743
(243.3%)
83,084
(267.1%)
81,040
(270.0%)

Schedule of Funding Progress – ATU 1001 Pension Plan
Actuarial
Valuation
Date
1/1/12
1/1/13
1/1/14

Actuarial
Value of
Assets
$212,268
200,916
207,435

Actuarial
Accrued
Liability
$406,309
422,813
426,272

Funding
Excess
(Deficiency)
$(194,041)
(221,897)
(218,837)

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion

73

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 160

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

74

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 161

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSE AND REVENUE
BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS
Year Ended December 31, 2014
(In Thousands)
Adopted
Budget
Operating revenue
Passenger fares
Other
Total operating revenue
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total operating expenses

$

Operating loss
Nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/unrealized loss capital assets
Total nonoperating revenue (expenses)
Proceeds from debt
Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants
Long-term debt principal payment
Excess (deficiency) of revenue and nonoperating
income over (under) expenses, capital
outlays and debt principal payments

$

Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenses
Proceeds from debt
Long-term debt principal payment
Depreciation
INCREASE IN NET POSITION

124,985
5,423
130,408

Final
Budget
$

124,985
5,423
130,408

Actual
$

75

120,497
4,406
124,903

$

(4,488)
(1,017)
(5,505)

130,949
39,892
68,395
143,363
14,031
6,270
116,256
2,729
14,620
536,505

139,326
45,271
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931
546,980

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057

(3,787)
(16,406)
5,103
34,991
1,183
2,197
3,247
25
370
26,923

(406,097)

(416,572)

(395,154)

21,418

503,808
85,854
2,372
20,121
(99,410)
512,745
720,000

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
520,002
795,604

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393
573,324

11,273
(17,322)
(2,207)
(10,473)
6,613
27,112
(3,605)
11,391
(222,280)

1,978,463
(237,253)
1,741,210
(61,458)

1,811,720
(276,073)
1,535,647
(62,187)

862,701
(206,431)
656,270
(57,002)

(949,019)
69,642
(879,377)
5,185

(976,020) $

(698,800)

(3,709)

$

See accompanying independent auditors' opinion

Variance positive
(negative)

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)
203,625

$

695,091

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 162

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF SCHEDULES OF NET POSITION
As of December 31,
(In Thousands)

BASE OPERATIONS
2014
2013
ASSETS AND DEFERRED OUTFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Assets
Current assets - restricted
Capital assets (net of accumulated depreciation)
Other noncurrent assets
Total assets before deferred outflow of resources
Deferred outflows of resources

$

FASTRACKS
2014
2013

221,488 $ 213,440
128,963
239,237
1,384,939
1,339,249
32,111
1,767,501
1,791,926

$

328,284
453,273
4,028,516
269,062
5,079,135

$

333,436
471,402
3,357,486
151,611
4,313,935

TOTAL
2014
$

2013

549,772
582,236
5,413,455
301,173
6,846,636

$

546,876
710,639
4,696,735
151,611
6,105,861

12,655

15,052

27,081

28,419

39,736

43,471

Total assets and deferred outflows of resources

1,780,156

1,806,978

5,106,216

4,342,354

6,886,372

6,149,332

LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Current Liabilities
Noncurrent Liabilities
Total liabilities before deferred inflow of resources

172,170
594,009
766,179

150,711
633,777
784,488

141,517
2,796,975
2,938,492

168,293
2,218,446
2,386,739

313,687
3,390,984
3,704,671

319,004
2,852,223
3,171,227

-

-

627

656

627

656

766,179

784,488

2,939,119

2,387,395

3,705,298

3,171,883

949,722
923,590
45,413
45,682
18,842
53,218
$ 1,013,977 $ 1,022,490

2,037,972
129,125
$ 2,167,097

1,864,510
90,449
$ 1,954,959

2,987,694
174,538
18,842
$ 3,181,074

2,788,100
136,131
53,218
$ 2,977,449

Deferred inflows of resources
Total liabilities and deferred inflows of resources
NET POSITION
Net investment in capital assets
Restricted
Unrestricted
Total net position

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

76
Packet Pg. 163

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY SCHEDULES OF REVENUES, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
Year ended December 31,
(In Thousands)
BASE OPERATIONS
2014
2013
OPERATING REVENUE
Passenger fares
$
116,468
$
115,094
$
Advertising, rent, and other
4,406
5,199
Total operating revenue
120,874
120,293
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and wages
Fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Depreciation
Total operating expenses

FASTRACKS
2014
2013
4,029
4,029

$

2,747
2,747

TOTAL
2014
$

120,497
4,406
124,903

2013
$

117,841
5,199
123,040

131,238
57,135
59,997
57,407
11,845
5,935
114,942
1,762
(10,094)
83,855
514,022

126,110
53,400
63,309
51,020
12,078
5,631
113,006
1,833
(9,874)
90,650
507,163

11,875
4,542
2,159
51,513
2,306
(662)
1,502
16,655
55,190
145,080

9,550
3,345
1,489
61,459
1,489
(63)
1,377
16,322
36,606
131,574

143,113
61,677
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
139,045
659,102

135,660
56,745
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
127,256
638,737

(393,148)

(386,870)

(141,051)

(128,827)

(534,199)

(515,697)

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Investment income
Other income
Gain/(Loss) capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense
Net nonoperating revenue (expenses)

308,833
75,959
691
2,017
8,952
(19,594)
(105)
376,753

281,152
76,204
529
10,457
(84)
(18,500)
(2,402)
347,356

205,888
(415)
(526)
(2,017)
7,909
(52,699)
(3,500)
154,640

187,434
12,039
1,511
17,713
2
(42,723)
(1,662)
174,314

514,721
75,544
165
16,861
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS
AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS

(16,395)

(39,514)

13,589

45,487

(2,806)

5,973

7,882

10,894

198,549

231,672

206,431

242,566

(8,513)

(28,620)

212,138

277,159

203,625

248,539

1,022,490

1,051,110

1,954,959

1,677,800

2,977,449

2,728,910

OPERATING LOSS

Capital grants and local contributions
CHANGE IN NET POSITION
NET POSITION, beginning of year
NET POSITION, end of year

$

1,013,977

$

1,022,490

See accompanying independent auditors’ opinion

77

$

2,167,097

$

1,954,959

$

3,181,074

$

2,977,449

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 164

STATISTICAL SECTION
This part of the Regional Transportation District’s comprehensive annual financial report presents
detailed information as a context for understanding what the information in the financial statements,
note disclosure, and required supplementary information says about the government’s overall financial
health.
Contents

Page

Financial Trends

79-80

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

12.A.a

These tables contain trend information to help the reader understand how the government’s financial
performance and well-being have changed over time.
Revenue Capacity

81-82

These tables contain information to help the reader assess the government’s most significant
revenue source.
Debt Capacity

83-84

These tables present information to help the reader asses the affordability of the government’s
current levels of outstanding debt and the government’s ability to issue additional debt in the future.
Demographic and Operating Information

85

These tables contain service and infrastructure data to help the reader understand how the
information in the financial report relates to service the government provides and the activities it
performs. The demographic and economic indicators help the reader understand the environment
within which the government’s financial activities take place.

78
Packet Pg. 165

1

18,304
117,827
53,218

19,193
155,345
18,842

17,451
316,711
45,782

$ 2,348,966

2012

16,392
491,313
46,199

$ 1,872,790

2011

15,486
424,348
166,299

$ 1,597,631

2010

15,158
442,489
132,035

$ 1,456,493

2009

16,821
393,223
143,913

$ 1,338,453

2008

16,829
412,822
186,280

$ 1,162,486

2007

15,078
232,702
140,626

$ 1,167,667

2006

14,048
120,653
204,176

$ 1,027,361

2005

Table 1

$ 3,181,074 $ 2,977,449 $ 2,728,910 $ 2,426,694 $ 2,203,764 $ 2,046,175 $ 1,892,410 $ 1,778,417 $ 1,556,073 $ 1,366,238

$ 2,788,100

$ 2,987,694

2013

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report79
(12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.

Total net position

Invested in capital assets,
net of related debt (Note I)
Restricted (Note I)
Emergencies
Debt and other
Unrestricted (Note I)

2014

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
NET POSITION BY COMPONENT1 (In Thousands)

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 166

139,045
(534,199)
514,721
75,544

Depreciation
Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):

Sales and use tax revenues

Grant operating assistance

$ 2,977,449

302,216
2,426,694

311,676

(9,460)

479,555

(4,895)

(51,371)

3,459

11,035

2,613

68,927

449,787

115,269
(489,015)

(373,746)

15,741
492,008

2,401

111,130

3,776

11,833

109,853

58,300

178,974

118,262

5,333

112,929

$ 2,728,910

$

2012

315,147
2,111,547

238,292

76,855

465,087

(150)

(51,274)

(6,101)

11,356

6,484

89,592

415,180

104,280
(388,232)

(283,952)

2,082
397,331

1,964

108,865

6,089

11,627

48,357

52,015

166,332

113,379

4,882

108,497

$ 2,426,694

$

2011

157,589
2,046,175

107,478

50,111

448,042

(1,671)

(48,735)

(3,474)

3,653

8,065

92,655

397,549

104,176
(397,931)

(293,755)

3,315
396,111

2,515

104,514

5,429

10,977

60,553

48,310

160,498

102,356

4,414

97,942

(92,217)
$ 2,111,547

$

2010

153,765
1,892,410

131,711

22,054

414,997

(23,037)

(34,179)

40

3,243

29,379

68,146

371,405

106,025
(392,943)

(286,918)

6,866
388,165

2,680

103,975

3,767

9,512

42,783

56,835

161,747

101,247

4,357

96,890

$ 2,046,175

$

2009

113,993
1,778,417

39,389

74,604

461,951

(977)

(56,273)

1

3,106

52,456

50,814

412,824

102,252
(387,347)

(285,095)

2,619
377,424

2,464

102,743

5,333

10,575

36,835

61,056

155,799

92,329

4,124

88,205

$ 1,892,410

$

2008

222,344
1,556,073

115,133

107,211

475,546

(861)

(52,272)

1,055

4,706

57,471

47,040

418,407

103,302
(368,335)

(265,033)

2,390
346,543

2,195

97,819

5,090

8,678

30,654

49,157

150,560

81,510

4,382

189,833
1,366,240

61,537

128,296

447,764

(805)

(29,689)

1,929

4,031

29,936

42,805

399,557

67,526
(319,468)

(251,942)

3,144
321,463

1,758

93,003

5,722

7,530

29,864

43,709

136,733

69,521

3,310

230,987
1,140,841

97,384

133,603

426,354

(790)

(21,163)

1,450

3,484

15,624

41,322

386,427

58,924
(292,751)

(233,827)

2,347
296,568

1,568

86,330

6,569

7,170

22,344

39,869

130,371

62,741

5,103

57,638

2005

(5,588)
$ 1,366,240

66,211 $

2006

$ 1,556,073

77,128 $

$ 1,778,417

$

2007

Table 2

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report80
(12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

$ 3,181,074

248,539
2,728,910

242,566

206,431

Capital grants and local contributions
203,625
2,977,449

5,973

(2,806)

Increase in Net Position
Net Position at Beginning of Year,
as restated
Prior Period Adjustment
Net Position at End of Year

521,670

(4,064)

531,393

(61,223)

(3,605)

(82)

28,170

2,040

88,243

468,586

127,256
(515,697)

(388,441)

6,448
511,481

3,210

113,006

5,568

13,567

112,479

64,798

192,405

123,040

5,199

117,841

(72,293)

6,613

10,248

$

2013

Total Nonoperating Income
Net income before
capital grants and local contributions

Other expense/Unrealized Loss Assets

Interest expense

Gain/Loss on Capital Assets

Other income

165

(395,154)

Operating loss before depreciation

Interest income

6,561
520,057

3,264

114,942

Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses

Leases and rentals

Purchased transportation

5,273

14,151

Utilities

Insurance

108,920

62,156

204,790

124,903

4,406

$ 120,497

Services

Materials and supplies

Salaries, wages, fringe benefits

Operating Expenses:

Total Operating Revenues

Other

Passenger Fares

Operating Revenues:

2014

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 167

2

1

81

Total
651,288
627,845
659,762
819,683
961,760
1,266,719
1,176,089
1,365,662
1,473,465
1,597,701

Table 3

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTD capitalizes certain interest costs, which are included in capital outlays.

Year
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014

Transit
Planning,
Other
Operating
Administrative
Interest
Nonoperating
Capital
2
2
and Development Depreciation
Expense
Expenses
Outlays 2
Expenses
$
264,840 $
31,728 $
58,924 $ 21,163 $
790 $
273,843
284,360
37,104
67,526
29,689
805
208,361
302,626
43,916
103,302
52,272
861
156,785
324,931
52,492
102,252
56,273
977
282,758
326,324
61,841
106,025
34,179
23,037
410,354
318,751
77,360
104,176
48,735
5,145
712,552
333,301
64,030
104,280
51,274
6,251
616,953
414,893
77,115
115,269
51,371
4,895
702,119
429,700
81,781
127,256
61,223
4,146
769,359
436,905
83,152
139,045
72,293
3,605
862,701

(In Thousands)

Last Ten Years (Unaudited)

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES AND CAPITAL OUTLAYS1

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 168

2

1

Total
Revenue
$ 509,598
545,851
609,135
611,529
573,460
604,278
635,991
654,083
710,079
732,194

Capital
Local
Grants
Contributions
$ 86,523 $
10,861
57,413
4,123
107,577
7,556
39,220
169
129,211
2,500
102,213
5,265
186,073
52,219
193,991
117,685
159,783
82,783
171,549
34,882

Total Revenue
and Capital Grant
& Contributions
$
606,982
607,387
724,268
650,918
705,171
711,756
874,283
965,759
952,645
938,625

Table 4

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

82

Grant
Operating
Interest
Assistance
Income
Other
$
41,322 $ 15,624 $
3,484
42,805
29,936
4,032
47,041
57,471
4,706
50,814
52,456
3,106
68,146
29,379
3,283
92,655
8,065
3,653
89,592
6,484
11,356
68,927
2,613
14,494
88,243
2,040
28,170
75,544
165
16,861

Data is taken from the financial records of RTD and is presented on the accrual basis.
RTDs Sales/Use Tax increased from 0.6% to 1.0% effective January 1, 2005.

Year
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014

Operating
Sales/Use
Revenues
Tax 2
$
62,741 $
386,427
69,521
399,557
81,510
418,407
92,329
412,824
101,247
371,405
102,356
397,549
113,379
415,180
118,262
449,787
123,040
468,586
124,903
514,721

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
REVENUE BY SOURCE1
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 169

43,210

46,324

70,646

70,752

76,786

84,821

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

25,712

20,725

26,211

25,010

44,511

44,430

45,505

38,590

15,015

12,415

$

14,502

13,714

13,711

28,973

28,451

31,285

43,502

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

$

31,290

25,735

28,575

25,955

26,725

18,340

17,515

17,105

16,155

11,470

Principal
$

74,792

57,020

57,026

54,928

40,436

32,054

32,017

31,533

30,548

24,121

Total

110,533

97,511

96,963

95,656

90,835

87,640

90,449

87,035

36,063

31,098

Total
$

83

514,721

468,586

449,787

415,180

397,549

371,405

412,824

418,407

399,557

386,427

Collections

4.66

4.81

4.64

4.34

4.38

4.24

4.56

4.81

11.08

12.43

Ratio

Coverage

Table 5

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

14,428

2007

12,651

14,393

$

Interest

2006

2005

44,944

2008

$

Principal

Certificate of Participation Debt Service Requirements

48,445

2007

18,683

21,048

$

Interest

Sales Tax

LAST TEN YEARS (UNADUITED)

Sales Tax Bond Debt Service Requirements 2

2006

2005

(In Thousands)

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS1

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 170

2

1

59,446

56,924

60,035

99,619

99,203

108,071

128,323

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

$

57,002

46,460

54,786

50,965

71,236

62,770

63,020

55,695

31,170

23,885

Principal
$

185,325

154,531

153,989

150,584

131,271

119,694

122,466

118,568

66,611

55,219

Total
$

938,625

952,645

965,494

874,283

654,083

573,460

611,528

609,135

545,851

509,598

Revenue

Total

84

5.06

6.16

6.27

5.81

4.98

4.99

5.14

8.19

9.23

6.13

Ratio

Coverage

Table 5

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Sales Tax Bonds include the 2001A Commercial Paper.

Source: The financial records of RTD and the Offical Statements of the respective debt issues.

62,873

2007

31,334

35,441

$

Interest

Total Debt Service Requirements

2006

2005

(In Thousands)

DEBT COVERAGE RATIOS (Continued)

2

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 171

7

255,501
326,747
63,640,443
77,320,228
97,959,296
99,122,065
129,517
139,083
5,400,000
998
998
700
1,715
779

254,071
335,391
63,010,579
77,079,604
100,844,239
101,966,009
106,709
118,385
5,600,000
992
992
752
1,901
785
6

210,811

208,387

6

2,800,000
40
2,340
38,824,067
9,841
145
71
11
17
17
5
13
4
7

2012

2,800,000
40
2,340
45,246,715
9,509
136
65
11
14
17
5
13
4
7

2013

6

697
1,785
797

126,849
5,400,000
969
969

117,261

98,384,882

97,272,342

76,577,627

61,634,723

325,900

254,197

205,504

2,800,000
40
2,348
42,996,614
9,698
138
64
11
16
17
5
12
4
9

2011

6

696
1,744
806

134,294
5,200,000
1,025
1,025

124,248

97,724,928

96,657,335

76,825,609

62,902,963

323,311

255,068

209,172

2,800,000
40
2,348
41,449,988
10,140
148
66
11
20
16
5
14
7
9

2010

6

664
1,802
830

159,824
5,400,000
1,050
1,050

149,750

98,746,429

97,687,476

77,928,088

63,578,004

328,291

259,873

212,758

2,800,000
40
2,348
48,862,622
10,199
150
67
11
20
16
5
15
7
9

2009

6

623
1,903
862

163,987
6,000,000
1,039
1,039

152,848

104,071,339

103,362,667

82,727,534

67,910,015

344,954

273,737

224,918

2,760,000
40
2,337
49,947,763
10,199
165
72
13
24
18
5
15
7
11

2008

2

6

611
1,923
862

166,571
6,000,000
1,071
1,071

155,153

96,326,580

95,275,984

76,620,488

62,007,583

320,311

255,987

207,734

6

613
1,907
851

165,666
6,100,000
1,071
1,071

154,078

86,842,675

85,915,718

74,637,863

57,662,038

294,791

246,992

198,629

2,619,000
39
2,329
49,167,392
10,596
166
73
15
24
16
5
15
8
10

6

591
1,919
880

163,398
6,100,000
1,071
1,071

158,464

86,371,859

85,557,899

75,100,270

56,736,687

292,407

254,928

194,077

2,598,000
40
2,327
49,167,392
10,366
174
67
16
37
20
5
15
8
6

Table 6
Last Ten Years (Unaudited)
2006
2005

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

85

2007
2,700,000
40
2,331
50,706,993
10,329
170
73
15
25
18
5
15
8
11

Source: Population is based on estimates provided by the Denver Regional Council of Governments. All other data comes from the financial records of RTD.
Reflects total Mile, including Light Rail.
3
Excludes purchased transportation services.

1

Operating facilities 3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
DEMOGRAPHIC AND OPERATING DATA
2014
January 1 population within RTD
1
service area
2,870,000
Cities and towns served
40
Square miles in service area
2,340
Total miles 2
45,746,927
Passenger stops
9,751
Number of fixed routes
138
Local
65
Limited
11
Express
14
Regional
17
Skyride
5
Boulder City
13
Longmont City
4
Miscellaneous
9
Ridership average weekday,
211,702
without Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle
255,696
Ridership average weekday,
including Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA, and Van Pool
344,348
Total annual boardings without
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail and ADA
63,935,032
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle
77,464,530
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle and Light Rail
103,851,061
Total annual boardings, including
Mall Shuttle, Light Rail,
ADA service, and Van Pool
104,987,248
Daily miles operated (average weekday),
including Mall Shuttle
107,635
Daily miles operated (average
weekday), including Mall Shuttle
119,706
and Light Rail
Diesel fuel consumption, gallons 3
5,550,000
Total active buses
1,011
Wheelchair lift equipped buses
1,011
Number of employees 3
Salaried
735
Represented (includes part-time)
1,929
Fleet requirements ( peak hours)
821

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 172

SBP Operations Program
SBP Capital Program
RTD Statement of Debt
RTD Annual Ridership and Fare Revenue

RTD Advertising and Ancillary Revenues
RTD Federal Grant Receipts
Five-Year Summary of Revenue/Expense
Statements
Five-Year Summary of Budget/Actuals
RTD 2014 and 2015 Budget
Trip Fares
RTD Net Retail Sales

7
8
9
10

11
12
13

86

Statistical Section – Table 4
Statements of
Net Position – pg. 38-39

Location in CAFR

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

RTD Revenues by Source
Summary Balance Sheet

Table Title

Debt Disclosure Tables Updated in Body of 2013

14
15
16
17

Table Title

CAFR
Table

Debt Disclosure Tables for 2014 CAFR

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 173

2

1

$

$

26,465
128,036
97,861
6,991
259
(15,020)
2,124
1,429
1,009
37,227
43,905
(1,907)
40,697
2,850
3,719
923
830
73,315
450,713
$

$

27,300
128,300
100,251
7,162
266
(15,396)
2,177
1,465
1,034
37,694
44,982
(1,954)
41,715
8,734
3,812
1,245
849
74,972
464,608

2016

$

$

27,312
132,089
102,699
7,338
272
(15,781)
2,231
1,501
1,060
39,568
46,086
(2,003)
42,758
17,352
3,908
1,194
868
76,900
485,352

2017

$

$

26,763
134,984
105,208
7,517
279
(16,175)
2,287
1,539
1,086
41,638
47,217
(2,053)
43,826
4,147
4,005
1,356
888
80,782
485,294

2018

$

$

26,812
138,279
107,778
7,701
286
(16,580)
2,344
1,577
1,113
41,095
48,376
(2,104)
44,922
2,342
4,106
1,152
907
83,812
493,918

2019

$

$

27,561
141,736
110,472
7,894
293
(16,994)
2,403
1,617
1,141
41,458
49,586
(2,157)
46,045
2,447
4,208
1,356
930
84,264
504,260

2020

$

$

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report87
(12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Interest payments and FasTracks service allocation are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Interest payments on bonds and certificates of participation (COPS) issued for purposes other than FasTracks.

Capital Programs - Additional Costs
Direct Costs - Other Departments
Indirect Costs - Other Departments
Grand Total

Interest Payments 1,2
Bus Operations – Current RTD
Bus Operations – Private Carrier after Contract
Bus Operations - call-n-Ride
Private Contract Administration Costs
Service Increases – RTD-Operated
Service Increases – Private Contractor
FasTracks Service Allocation - Bus 1
Cost Sharing Agreements - Bus Service
Van Pool Program
Section 5011 Local Match
LRT Operations
ADA Operating Costs
FasTracks Service Allocation - ADA1
Facilities Maintenance - Base
Facilities Maintenance - Additional Costs

2015

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2015-2020 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - OPERATIONS (In Thousands)

162,213
803,424
624,269
44,603
1,655
(95,946)
13,566
9,128
6,443
238,680
280,152
(12,178)
259,963
37,872
23,758
7,226
5,272
474,045
2,884,145

Total Cost

Table 7

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 174

-

3

2

1

$

410
1,649
158
146,759

9,379
154
150,164

-

-

263

-

1,681

8,661

52

2,224

3,415
630

$

$

162
131,568

1,960

-

-

2,692

-

1,723

6,977

-

2,413

6,246
1,615

215
38,400

593

4,613

-

63,959

2017

$

$

165
143,899

276
353
5,791

-

-

-

-

1,766

6,427

33

2,282

6,733
1,656

221
6,400

1,301

33,189

-

77,306

2018

$

$

170
149,149

283
147

-

-

-

-

-

2,874

-

1,868

3,338
2,715

226
6,400

592

54,788

-

75,748

2019

$

$

174
163,447

290
151

-

-

-

-

-

423

-

1,163

754
-

232
-

6,207

69,926

-

84,127

2020

$

$

983
884,986

410
849
353
19,077

-

-

2,955

-

5,642

41,165

85

11,726

28,278
7,897

1,309
80,000

22,701

240,971

-

420,585

Total Cost

Table 8

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report88
(12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Long-term debt service costs include principal payments on bonds and COPs and are not presented in year of expenditure dollars.
Capital expenditures and discretionary capital amounts are presented in year of expenditure dollars.

Principal payments are set at the time the bonds are issued and do not change with inflation.

Grand Total

Central Rail Line
Maintenance of Way
District-wide
Facilities Construction and Maintenance
Discretionary Capital3

-

-

East Metro

472

15,803

-

1,776

7,792
1,281

210
14,400

9,573

205
14,400

4,435

-

65,712
37,721

District Shops

Platte
Light Rail Maintenance Facilities 3

$

2016

40,734

-

53,733

-

$

$

Boulder

Security Equipment
Bus Maintenance Facilities 3

Information Systems, Computer Equip. for Ops.

Treasury

Vehicles and Bus Maintenance Equipment

Capital Support Equipment 3

Bus and Rail Infrastructure
park-n-Rides 3

Other
Light Rail Vehicles

ADA Vehicles

Transit Buses

Existing Corridors

Long Term Debt Service1,2

2015

2015-2020 STRATEGIC BUDGET PLAN - CAPITAL PROGRAM (In Thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 175

12.A.a
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF DEBT
as of December 31, 2014

Outstanding2

Sales Tax Bonds
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071 - FasTracks

$

376,193

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20071

75,321

RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 20101

21,688

RTD Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue (DUSPA) Fastracks, Series 2010

157,064

RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2010AB 1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012A 1
RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013A 1
RTD Sales FasTracks Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2013AB 1
RTD Sales Tax TIFIA Loan4
Total Sales Tax Revenue Debt

$

381,268
539,949
78,443
247,455
212,282
2,089,663

Outstanding2

Lease Purchase Agreements
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series
2005A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Taxable Certificates of Participation,
Series 2007A

10,135

Amended and Restated Certificates of Participation, Series 2002A

95,206

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation,
FasTracks Series 2010AB

299,074

5,336

Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series
2013A
Master Lease Purchase Agreement II Fixed Rate Certificates of Participation, Series
2014A
Total Certificates of Participation Debt
Total Debt

253,901

$

465,908
1,129,560

$

3,219,223

RTD Seven County Populaiton 2013 3

2,951,798

Per Capita Debt Requirement

$

1

1,091

The Bond Resolution pursuant to which the RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds are issued provides that pledged
for the payment of such Bonds are the Sales Tax Revenues and "any additional revenues legally available to
RTD which the Board in its discretion may hereafter by Supplemental Resolution pledge to the payment of the
Bonds".
2

RTD is current on its obligations under all such debt.

3

Metro Denver Economic Profile 2012-2013

4

Capitalized interest thru 2020

89

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Table 9

Packet Pg. 176

12.A.a
Table 10

ANNUAL RIDERSHIP AND FARE REVENUE - 2005-2014
Percent
Change
Year

Revenue

Fare

in Fare

Boardings 1

Revenue

Revenue

2005

67,994

57,638

4.0%

2006

69,867

$

66,211

14.9%

2007

81,714

77,128

16.5%

2008

89,254

88,205

14.4%

2009

83,337

96,890

9.8%

2010

83,732

97,942

1.1%

2011

83,428

108,497

10.8%

2012

85,442

112,929

4.1%

2013

87,820

117,841

4.3%

2014

91,049

120,497

2.3%

1
Totals for 2005-2014 include both access-a-Ride boardings and vanpool
boardings.

Table 11

ADVERTISING AND ANCILLARY REVENUES - 2005-2014
(In Thousands)
Advertising

Ancillary

Revenue

Revenues

Year
2005

$

3,196

$

3,484

2006

2,800

4,032

2007

3,194

4,706

2008

2,854

3,106

2009

2,866

3,243

2010

3,301

2,892

2011

3,992

2,528

2012

3,524

2,214

2013

2,924

20,123

2014

4,324

2,085
Table 12

GRANT RECEIPTS AND OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS - 2005-2014
(In Thousands)

Year
2005

$

Grant

Other

Grant Operating

Capital

Contributions

Assistance

86,523

$

10,861

$

41,322

2006

57,413

4,124

42,805

2007

107,577

7,556

47,041

2008

39,220

169

50,814

2009

129,211

2,500

68,146

2010

102,213

5,265

92,655

2011

186,073

52,219

89,592

2012

193,991

117,685

68,927

2013

159,783

82,783

88,243

2014

171,549

34,882

75,544

90

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

(In Thousands)

Packet Pg. 177

3,181,074

2,977,449

2,728,910

248,539

5,973
242,566

$

$

2,728,910

2,426,694

302,216

(9,460)
311,676

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)
479,555

(489,015)

(373,746)
115,269

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741
492,008

112,929
5,333
118,262

$

$

2,426,694

2,111,547

315,147

76,855
238,292

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(150)
465,087

(388,232)

(283,952)
104,280

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082
397,331

108,497
4,882
113,379

2011

$

$

2,111,547

2,046,175
(92,217)

157,589

50,111
107,478

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)
448,042

(397,931)

(293,755)
104,176

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315
396,111

97,942
4,414
102,356

2010

Table 13

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report91
(12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

Net Position at End of Year

$

203,625

Increase in Net Position

$

(2,806)
206,431

Net income before capital grants and local contribut
Federal capital grants and local contributions

2,977,449

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)
521,670

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)
531,393

Net Position at Beginning of Year (as restated)
Prior Period Adjustment (as restated)

(515,697)

(534,199)

Operating Loss
Nonoperating income (expense):
Sales and use tax revenues
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on Capital Assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unrealized Loss
Total Nonoperating Income

(388,441)
127,256

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448
511,481

117,841
5,199
123,040

(395,154)
139,045

$

Operating loss before depreciation
Depreciation

120,497
4,406
124,903

Years ended December 31
2012

204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561
520,057

$

2013

Operating Expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Expenses

Operating Revenues:
Passenger Fares
Other
Total Operating Revenues

2014

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISCTRICT
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN NET POSITION
(In Thousands)

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 178

$ 203,625

862,701
(573,324)
57,002
(139,045)

(3,709) $ (1,231,812)

583,788

490,726

436,521
79,760
3,338
21,186
(50,079)
-

(437,973)

559,490

159,460
59,714
189,519
11,705
6,299
113,346
2,464
16,983

121,517

56,563

1,448,275

$ 248,539

769,359
(693,841)
442,598
(127,256)

(142,321) $ (868,297)

442,598

526,793

769,359 1,709,182
(242,566) (260,907)

693,841

521,670

468,586
88,243
2,040
28,170
(82)
(61,223)
(4,064)

(388,441)

511,481

192,405
64,798
112,479
13,567
5,568
113,006
3,210
6,448

123,040

-

474,422

419,136
84,789
10,765
1,479
(41,747)
-

(325,933)

434,543

155,286
54,981
89,609
11,180
6,943
110,487
2,482
3,575

108,610

50,965

1,065,990

$ 302,116

702,119
(545,763)
57,827
(115,369)

203,302 $ (968,466)

57,827

390,443

702,119 1,327,839
(311,676) (261,849)

545,763

479,555

449,787
68,927
2,613
11,035
3,459
(51,371)
(4,895)

(373,746)

492,008

178,974
58,300
109,853
11,833
3,776
111,130
2,401
15,741

118,262

279,865

425,058

386,390
94,042
16,039
1,644
(73,057)
-

(329,522)

427,088

149,840
50,333
86,355
9,920
7,505
109,032
2,463
11,640

97,566

71,660

956,636

$ 311,402

616,953
53,882
(104,280)

(255,153) $ (652,895)

53,882

378,661

616,953 1,227,124
(238,292) (270,488)

-

461,342

415,180
89,592
6,484
11,356
(6,101)
(51,274)
(3,895)

(283,952)

397,331

166,332
52,015
48,357
11,627
6,089
108,865
1,964
2,082

113,379

$

157,589

712,552
(916,475)
74,101
(104,176)

391,587

74,101

605,074

712,552
(107,478)

916,475

448,042

397,549
92,655
8,065
3,653
(3,474)
(48,735)
(1,671)

(293,755)

396,111

160,498
48,310
60,553
10,977
5,429
104,514
2,515
3,315

102,356

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

92

* RTD's annual budget is prepared on the same basis as that used for accounting except that the budget also includes proceeds of long-term debt and capital grants as
revenues, and expenditures include capital outlays and bond principal

Net Income

Increases (decreases) to reconcile
budget basis to GAAP basis
Capital expenditures
Long-term debt proceeds
Long-term debt principal
Depreciation

$ (698,800)

57,002

Excess (deficit) of revenue and
nonoperating income over (under)
expenses, capital outlay and debt
principal payments

46,460

656,270

1,535,647
62,187

1,550,456

862,701
(206,431)

1,811,720
(261,264)

261,376

487,752

466,429
82,385
3,165
15,246
(79,473)
-

1,811,720
(276,073)

Long-term debt principal payment

Capital outlay
Capital expenses
Less capital grants

573,324

531,393

520,002

Proceeds from issuance of long-term d

795,604

514,721
75,544
165
10,248
6,613
(72,293)
(3,605)

503,448
92,866
2,372
20,721
(99,405)
-

Total nonoperating revenue

(395,154)

(416,572)

Operating loss

Nonoperating revenue (expense):
Sales and use tax
Grant operating assistance
Interest income
Other income
Gain/Loss on capital assets
Interest expense
Other expense/Unlrealized loss

(384,024)

508,793

520,057

546,980

Total Operating Expenses

124,769
131,347
69,469
149,007
14,846
6,270
116,675
3,263
17,916

184,597
67,259
143,911
15,334
7,470
118,189
3,289
6,931

124,903
204,790
62,156
108,920
14,151
5,273
114,942
3,264
6,561

130,408

Total operating revenues

Operating expenses:
Salaries, wages, fringe benefits
Materials and supplies
Services
Utilities
Insurance
Purchased transportation
Leases and rentals
Miscellaneous

Table 14
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FIVE-YEAR SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES AND REVENUES - BUDGET AND ACTUAL - BUDGETARY BASIS (In Thousands)*
2014
2013
2012
2010
2011
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Budget
Actual
Operating revenues:
Passenger fares
$ 124,985 $ 120,497 $ 119,346 $ 117,841 $ 116,092 $ 112,929 $ 103,236 $ 108,497 $ 93,449 $
97,942
4,406
5,423
5,199
5,425
5,333
5,374
4,882
4,117
4,414
Other
5,423

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 179

2

49,841
1,772,239

$

$

Appropriated funds w hich are available to fund future year expenditures for the FasTracks program.

Board appropriated funds per policy guidelines and funds designated for capital replacement.

4

$

3,904,531

9,351

63,811

130,000

19,193

80,983

$

4,204,778

12,730

63,925

130,000

19,819

79,883

3,898,421

4,204,778

1,505,333

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

93

Funds restricted by bond covenants, other contracts and policy guidelines.

3

$

2

3,677,297

Adjustments reflect cash activity from the Statement of Net Position.

1

Ending net position

67,307
23,465

Restricted Board appropriated and capital replacement fund

130,000

Restricted FasTracks 3

Unrestricted fund

19,223

365,590

Restricted TABOR fund

Restricted debt service, project related and other

Net investment in capital assets

Net position summary:
3,601,193

3,904,531

3,677,287

3,071,712

1,649,754

1,219,728

Adjustments 1

2,581,975

1,303,115

926,185
2,550,021

62,471
600,422

97,472

62,187
919,067

99,410

518,495

73,798
1,376,889

543,172

333,369

5,858

15,330

284,829

535,146

128,559

3,904,531

49,841
1,827,349

2,668,855

Ending net position

$

795,604

5,858

23,093

319,097

Total expenditures

1,063,165

61,458
915,298

Debt payments
Current capital

Capital carryforward

99,410

Operating

Interest expense

529,524

720,000

Financing proceeds

Contributed capital
Total Revenues

5,858

22,493

Interest and other income

Expenditures:

2,977,449

503,448

503,809

FasTracks - change in construction reserve

$
130,408

339,830

2015

Table 15

Amended Budget Adopted Budget

June 2014

130,408

3,354,175

Sales & use taxes

$

$

Adopted Budget

Federal and local grants

Operating

Revenues:

Beginning net position

2014

FISCAL YEAR 2014 AND 2015 BUDGET SUMMARY (in thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 180

Trips consisting of three fare zones
Trips consisting of four fare zones

2

Regular
10-Ride
$ 20.00
36.00
45.00

13.00
11.00
9.00

Fare
Free
$ 2.25
4.00
5.00

1

Other 10-Ride
$
10.00
18.00
22.50

1

6.50
5.50
4.50

Student Fare .
Free
$ 1.10
2.00
2.50

Senior/
Disabled/

Regular
Monthly
$
79.00
140.00
176.00

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

94

1

Monthly
$
39.50
70.00
88.00

Other

Table 16

Includes monthly fares for youth, student, disabled and senior patrons. Youth patrons include children ages 6-19. Student
includes any student with a school identification card. Seniors include age 65 and older.

1

Multiple Trip Fares
Local - Denver, Boulder and Longmont and light rail
Light rail and bus express
Light rail and bus regional

3

Seniors include age 65 and older

1

Single Trip Fares
Mall Shuttle
Local - Denver, Boulder, Longmont and light rail
2
Light rail and bus express
3
Light rail and bus regional
SkyRide
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
TRIP FARES

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 181

2

1

Boulder
County
$ 3,248
3,336
3,538
3,491
3,216
3,391
3,721
3,851
4,033
4,359

Jefferson
County
$
5,823
5,952
6,185
6,043
5,536
5,656
6,001
6,202
6,538
7,013

Adams
County1
$ 4,471
4,577
4,804
4,785
4,240
4,433
4,749
5,323
5,731
6,436
Arapahoe
County1
$
6,851
6,889
7,294
7,098
6,459
6,817
7,486
8,109
8,456
9,211

Douglas
County1
$
2,463
2,562
2,616
2,524
2,319
2,390
2,778
2,912
3,108
3,318

City and
County of
Broomfield1
$
891
902
934
901
790
935
944
991
1,004
1,045
Other2
$ 609
572
592
666
474
718
1,041
1,036
-

Total Taxable
Transactions
$
33,785
34,583
36,714
36,565
32,303
34,106
37,959
40,839
41,731
45,636

Percent Annual
Increase or
Decrease
5.4%
2.4%
6.2%
-0.4%
-11.7%
5.6%
11.3%
7.6%
2.2%
9.4%

Table 17

Attachment: 1.A_2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (12-31-2014) (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual

95

Only a portion of each of these counties lies within the District
Represent taxable transactions that occur within RTD's service area but with sales tax collections occurring outside of RTD's service area

Year
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014

City and
County of
Denver
$
9,429
9,793
10,751
11,057
9,269
9,766
11,239
12,415
12,861
14,254

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RTD NET TAXABLE RETAIL SALES (In Millions)

12.A.a

Packet Pg. 182

Report to Governance

Regional Transportation District
For the Year Ended December 31, 2014

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 183

www.rubinbrown.com

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

Page
Introduction

1

Engagement Team

2

Objective And Scope Of Services

3

Other Audit Deliverables

4

Auditor Communications

5-9

Management Letter

10 - 13

GABS Statement No. 68: Recap

14

Issuance Of OMB Uniform Grant Guidance

15

Independent Auditors’ Report On Additional Information

16

Attachments:
Passed Journal Entries Report
Management Representation Letter

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Table Of Contents

Packet Pg. 184
18

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors and Management
Regional Transportation District
Denver, Colorado

We are pleased to have the opportunity to present to you the results of our audit engagement of the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) for the year ended December 31, 2014. The accompanying report presents information
regarding the scope of our audits and other matters, which summarizes the results of our audit engagements.
We thank you for the opportunity to be of service to RTD. We have received excellent cooperation and assistance from
both management and staff with respect to access to records, supporting documentation and responses to inquiries. No
limitations were placed upon our ability to perform the audit.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of management, the Board of Directors and others
within the organization and is not intended to be, and should not be, used by anyone other than these specified parties.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Introduction

Packet Pg. 185
1

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

ENGAGEMENT
MEMBER

ROLE

TELEPHONE

EMAIL

Cheryl Wallace

Engagement Partner

303.952.1288

cheryl.wallace@rubinbrown.com

Matthew Marino

Engagement Manager

303.952.1221

matthew.marino@rubinbrown.com

Jennifer Ulrich

Engagement Manager

303.952.1297

jennifer.ulrich@rubinbrown.com

Mitch McFarland

In-Charge

303.952.1274

mitch.mcfarland@rubinbrown.com

KEY PARTNERS

ROLE

TELEPHONE

EMAIL

Rodney Rice

Partner-In-Charge,
Denver Assurance
Services

303.952.1233

rodney.rice@rubinbrown.com

Michael T. Lewis

Managing Partner

303.952.1213

michael.lewis@rubinbrown.com

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Engagement Team

Packet Pg. 186
2

Objective And Scope
Of Services
Regional Transportation District

Objective Of
Engagement:

Independent Auditors’
Report On Financial
Statements

Auditors’
Responsibility:

Conducting the audit
in accordance with
generally accepted
auditing standards
and the standards
applicable to financial
audits contained in
Government Auditing
Standards
Ensuring that those
charged with
governance are
aware of internalcontrol-related
matters that are
required to be
communicated

Limitations Of
The Engagement:

An audit is designed
to obtain reasonable,
not absolute,
assurance about
whether the financial
statements are free
from material
misstatement.
An audit is not
designed to detect
immaterial errors or
fraud.
An audit is not
designed to provide
assurance about
internal controls or to
identify deficiencies in
internal controls.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Management’s
Responsibility:

Selecting and applying
accounting policies
Establishing and
maintaining effective
internal controls
Identifying and
ensuring compliance
with applicable laws
and regulations
Designing and
implementing controls
to prevent and detect
fraud
Informing auditors
regarding any known,
suspected or alleged
frauds
Making all financial
records available

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 187
3

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

Auditor
Communications

Best Practice And
Value-Added
Recommendations

ViewPoints

Required Communication
Of Any Internal Control
Matters

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Other Audit Deliverables

Packet Pg. 188
4

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

We have audited the basic financial statements of RTD for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our audit was
performed in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the standards
applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement and presented in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our audit involved performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. We also assessed the accounting principles
used by RTD and the reasonableness of significant estimates made by RTD’s management, as well as evaluated the
overall financial statement presentation.
Auditing standards require the auditor to ensure that those charged with governance receive additional information
regarding the scope and results of the audit that may assist the governing body in overseeing the financial reporting
and disclosure process for which management is responsible. The following section describes matters which are
required to be reported to you.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Auditor Communications

Packet Pg. 189
5

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Our Responsibility Under U.S. Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards, Government Auditing Standards
And OMB Circular A-133
Our responsibility, as described by professional standards, is to
express an opinion about whether the financial statements
prepared by management with your assistance are fairly
presented, in all material respects, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and whether
RTD complied in all material respects with the applicable
compliance requirements of its major federal programs. Our
audit of the financial statements and compliance does not
relieve you or management of responsibility for the accuracy of
the financial statements and/or compliance with applicable
requirements.
Professional standards also require that we obtain a significant
understanding of RTD’s internal control to plan the audit.
However, such understanding is required for the purpose of
determining our audit procedures and not to provide any
assurance concerning such internal control. Accordingly, we
express no such assurance.

Reports issued by RubinBrown:

Unmodified report on RTD’s financial statements based
upon an audit of the financial statements in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America and Governmental Auditing Standards
RTD agreed-upon procedures reports regarding National
Transit Database reporting and the RTD GM contract
Other informational reports to be issued:
A report on RTD’s internal control over financial reporting
and compliance and other matters based upon an audit of
the financial statements in accordance with Governmental
Auditing Standards
A unmodified report on RTD’s compliance for each major
program and a report on internal control over compliance
and report on the schedule of expenditures of federal
awards in accordance with OMB Circular A-133

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 190
6

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Other Information In Documents Containing Audited
Financial Statements

None

Planned Scope And Timing Of The Audit

We performed the audit according to the planned scope and
timing communicated in our letter dated September 22, 2014
regarding the timing and extent of our audit procedures.

Qualitative Aspects Of Accounting Practices
Management is responsible for the selection and use of
appropriate accounting policies. In accordance with the terms of
our engagement letter, we will advise management about the
appropriateness of accounting policies and their application.

Significant accounting policies are described in Note A.
No new accounting policies were adopted, and the
application of existing policies was not changed.
We noted no transactions entered into during the year for
which there was a lack of authoritative guidance or
consensus.
No significant transactions have been recognized in a
different period than when the transactions occurred.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 191
7

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Management Judgments And Accounting
Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements requires the
use of accounting estimates. Certain estimates are
particularly sensitive due to their significance to the
financial statements and the possibility that future
events may differ significantly from management’s
expectations.

Financial Statement Disclosures

We evaluated the key factors and assumptions used to develop the
estimates in determining that they are reasonable in relation to the
financial statements taken as a whole. The most sensitive estimates
affecting the financial statements are:
Management’s estimate of depreciation is based upon estimated
useful lives of capital assets.
Management’s estimate of the allowance for bad debts is based on
management’s review of outstanding receivables.
Management’s estimate of the net pension obligation is based on
actuarial valuations and employee census data.
The disclosures are neutral, consistent and clear. Certain disclosures are
particularly sensitive because of their significance to financial statement
users. The most sensitive disclosures affecting the financial statements
are:
The disclosure of capital assets in Note D
The disclosure of long-term debt in Note E
The disclosure of employee retirement and unearned compensation
plans in Note F
The disclosure of commitments and contingencies in Note H
The disclosure of the tax, spending and debt limitations in Note K

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 192
8

Auditor Communications
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

AREA

COMMENTS

Difficulties Encountered In Performing The Audit

There were no difficulties encountered in dealing with
management related to the performance of the audit.

Corrected And Uncorrected Misstatements

An estimated amount was proposed related to a potential
settlement on a litigation claim, which, in the aggregate,
decreased the change in net position by $7,800,000, that
management has determined are not material, both individually
and in the aggregate, to the financial statements taken as a
whole. See the attached Passed Journal Entries Report.

Disagreements With Management

None

Management Representations

Management representation letter received dated April 30,
2015, which is attached

Management Consultations With Other Independent
Accountants

None

Other Audit Findings Or Issues

There were no matters of significant discussion that affected
our retention as RTD’s auditors.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 193
9

12.A.b

Regional Transportation District

In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements of RTD as of and for the year ended December 31,
2014, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the standards
applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards, we considered RTD’s internal control over
financial reporting (internal control) as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances
for the purpose of expressing our opinion on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the RTD’s internal control. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of
RTD’s internal control.
Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the preceding paragraph and was not
designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and
therefore, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses may exist that were not identified.
A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or
employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct,
misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal
control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will
not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

Management Letter

Packet Pg. 194
10

Management Letter
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance. We consider the
following deficiency in the RTD’s internal control to be a significant deficiency:
OMB Circular A-133 Compliance:
Transportation Infrastructure Finance And Innovation Act (TIFIA) Loan Period Of Availability
The TIFIA loan agreement specified a funding period (period of availability), which is the period of time when eligible
project costs can be incurred for potential reimbursement under the program. The TIFIA loan agreement specified
eligible federal project costs were for work performed after November 6, 2009. RTD submitted reimbursement requests
that included expenditures outside of the period of availability and, as a result, incurred questioned costs of
approximately $1.5 million. RTD has identified other eligible project costs that meet the period of availability and is in
the process of amending the related reimbursement requests.
The TIFIA program is a federally funded loan, which is not a typical federal funding arrangement that RTD has
encountered previously; therefore, the loan program reimbursements were not subjected to the same internal controls
as federally funded reimbursement grants. We recommend that the RTD Grant Accountant prepare all reimbursement
requests for all federal funds including both grant and federal loan programs.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 195
11

Management Letter
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

In addition, the following are other matters involving internal control that we did not consider to be material weaknesses
or significant deficiencies:
Recode Of Transactions (Recurring):
RTD regularly recodes transactions to allocate expenditures:
From a general project to specific task within the project
From one federal source to another
From one project to another
From local sources to federal sources
The recodes occur for various reasons not limited to correcting errors, utilizing different funding sources or
refining/finalizing the accounting for a project. The recode entries are created by the budget analyst and
reapproved by the individuals who approved the original transactions. The Accounting Manager then reviews and
approves posting of the entry. While the Accounting Manager will consult with the FasTracks Program Control
Manager or Chief Financial Officer, depending on the nature and sensitivity of the recode, there is no other formal
documentation regarding approval of the recode. We recommend that management continue to enhance the
policy whereby recodes that meet certain quantitative or qualitative characteristics, such as a change in funding
source or project, be approved by the Program Control Manager or other appropriate designated individual.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 196
12

Management Letter
(Continued)
Regional Transportation District

General Information Technology Governance And Controls (Recurring):
During our engagements, we noted RTD’s continued work to enhance the general IT governance and controls,
including business continuity, cyber-security and emerging technologies.
The purpose of this communication is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control over financial
reporting and the results of that testing. This communication is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering RTD’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, this
communication is not suitable for any other purpose.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 197
13

GABS Statement No. 68:
Recap
Regional Transportation District

GABS Statement No. 68 - Key Changes For RTD
Effective for RTD’s 2015 year
Significant changes in accounting and financial reporting for RTD’s single
employer defined benefit union and salaried pension plans
RTD will have to recognize a liability representing both of the Plans’ underfunded
status.

There will also be new financial statement footnote and required supplementary
information disclosures.

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 198
14

Issuance Of OMB Uniform Grant
Guidance
Regional Transportation District

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
Requirements for Federal Awards on December 26, 2013.
Commonly referred to as the “Uniform Grant Guidance” or “UGG”
Supersedes existing OMB Circulars addressing these topics

Single Audit Requirements:
Changes will be effective for Single Audits for fiscal years ending December 31, 2015 and later
Additionally, the 2015 Compliance Supplement will contemplate a reduction in the number of Single Audit compliance
requirements (preliminarily, OMB recommended reducing these from 14 to 6).
Administrative Requirements:
Simplifies the requirements associated with disposals of equipment purchased with federal funds
Requires federal grant recipients to take steps to safeguard personally identifiable information
Applies to new and incrementally funded federal awards issued on or after December 26, 2014
Cost Principles:
Entities that have never had an indirect cost rate may adopt a flat 10% rate.
Allows for greater flexibility in time and effort reporting methodology
Applies to new and incrementally funded federal awards issued on or after December 26, 2014

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 199
15

Independent Auditors’ Report On
Additional Information
Regional Transportation District

Our report on our audit of the basic financial statements of RTD for December 31, 2014 appears in the financial
statements of RTD. That audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements
taken as a whole. The additional information presented in this document has been presented for purposes of additional
analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. Such information has not been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements, and accordingly, we express no opinion on it.

May 12, 2015

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 200
16

Regional Transportation District

Attachments

For Board of Directors and Management Use Only

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 :

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 201
17

12.A.b

Client:
Engagement:
Period Ending:
Trial Balance:
Workpaper:

35357.0000 - Regional Transportation District
2014 AUD - Regional Transportation District
12/31/2014
TB Database
3003 - Passed Journal Entries Report - None

Account

Description

Passed Journal Entries JE # 1
To record contingency liability.
53013
30113
Total

Legal Services
Accrued Outside Services

W/P Ref

Debit

Credit

1503

7,800,000.00
7,800,000.00

7,800,000.00
7,800,000.00

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

5/4/2015
4:24 PM

1 of 1

Packet Pg. 202

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 203

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 204

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 205

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 206

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 207

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 208

Attachment: 1.A.2_Regional Transportation District 2014 ViewPoints FINAL (2362 : Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial

12.A.b

Packet Pg. 209

12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: May 14, 2015

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

GM

Date:

May 14, 2015

Subject:

Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD
Chief Financial Officer

CFO/AGM,

Finance

&

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
BACKGROUND:
Wells Fargo, as the District’s commercial bank, requires prompt notification of all modifications in the
authorized signatories on the District’s various bank accounts. In order to reflect changes in District
personnel and the election of new Board officers, the Agreement is updated at least annually and
periodically as otherwise required.
DISCUSSION:
The attached recommended Agreement has been modified from the previously approved Agreement only
in that it adds the District’s Chief Financial Officer as an authorized signer. The Agreement also reflects
David A. Genova as having the signature authority of General Manager. No other aspects of the
Agreement have been altered from the prior version of this document.
ALTERNATIVES:
1.

Adopt the attached Agreement. This is the recommended action.

2.

Modify the attached Agreement.

3.

Do not adopt the attached Agreement. This is not the recommended action.

FINANCIAL IMPACT:
This recommended Board action poses no financial impact to the District.

Prepared by: Brenden R. Morgan, Sr. Manager of Debt and Investments
BANK ACCOUNT SIGNATURE AUTHORIZATION AGREEMENT
ARTICLE I

Packet Pg. 210

12.B

The Regional Transportation District (RTD or the District) is a public body politic and corporate and a
political subdivision of the State of Colorado. The RTD is authorized to deposit moneys of the District in
an eligible depository as defined under Colorado law. Wells Fargo Bank Denver, N.A., and Wells Fargo
Bank Ohio Van Wert, N.A. (Banks) are eligible depositories. In order to further the purposes of RTD and
provide authority for essential continuing disbursements, the Board has approved the establishment of
and placement of funds in the:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

RTD General Operating Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 1010824234
RTD Controlled Disbursement Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Van Wert, Ohio; Acct. No.
9600002107
RTD Salaried Payroll Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 1010039520
RTD Represented Payroll Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 1010039538
RTD Fuel Payments Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 4124907795
RTD Salaried Health Benefits Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 4122005663
RTD Lockbox Depository Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 1010824674
RTD Credit Card Sales Draft Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver; Acct. No. 1010824250

Now, therefore, RTD authorized the following:
ARTICLE II
AUTHORIZATIONS
2.1

Depository Designation. RTD designates the Banks as depositories for RTD’s funds, subject to
the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

2.2

Endorsements. RTD authorizes and directs the Banks to accept for collection all negotiable
instruments and other forms of order for payment of money payable to the order of or endorsed
to the order bearing either RTD’s written endorsement by any one designated signer named in
this Agreement or RTD’s stamped endorsement.

2.3

Required Signatures. RTD authorizes and directs the Banks to honor all negotiable instruments
and other forms of order for payment of money drawn on RTD’s account, (including those drawn
to bearer, to cash or to the individual order of any designated signer), that bear the signature(s)
required by Article IV of this Agreement.

2.4

Effect of Agreement. An Agreement of RTD previously delivered to the Banks shall remain in
effect and binding on RTD until RTD delivers a new Agreement or a written notice of termination
to the Banks. RTD shall not modify an Agreement except by delivering to an authorized officer of
Banks an Agreement containing the modification. RTD shall not terminate an Agreement except
by delivering to an officer of Banks a written notice of termination. Negotiable instruments or
other forms of order for payment of money, drawn on RTD’s accounts prior to termination or
modification of an Agreement, shall be deemed governed by either the Agreement in effect when
drawn or the Agreement in effect when presented to the Banks.

2.5

Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding on the
parties’ successors, assigns, deputies, and agents; (b) This Agreement shall be governed by the
laws of the State of Colorado; (c) In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
provision of the Agreement invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect; (d) This Agreement shall not be modified except in a writing
signed by an authorized representative of RTD and an authorized representative of banks; (e) In

Packet Pg. 211

12.B

the event of litigation, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s fees
and cost from the other party.
ARTICLE III
CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that I am the authorized representative of RTD, and that:
3.1

All acts, events, and undertakings required by law or by RTD to happen, exist or be performed
precedent to and in the issuance of this authorization have happened, exist, and have been
performed.

3.2

Each of the designation signers named in Article IV presently holds the title herein set forth and
all signatures in Article IV hereof are genuine signatures.

__________________________________
David A. Genova, General Manager

_________________________
Date

Packet Pg. 212

12.B

ARTICLE IV
SIGNATURES
4.1

The following are designated signers of RTD, subject to the special instructions in 4.2 below, for
the
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

RTD General Operating Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Controlled Disbursement Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Van Wert, Ohio
RTD Salaried Payroll Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Represented Payroll Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Salaried Health Benefits Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Fuel Payments Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Lockbox Depository Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver
RTD Credit Card Sales Draft Account at Wells Fargo Bank, Denver

Chair of the Board

_____________________________________________

First Vice-Chair of the Board

_____________________________________________

Second Vice-Chair of the Board

_____________________________________________

Secretary of the Board

_____________________________________________

Treasurer of the Board

_____________________________________________

Dave Genova
General Manager

_____________________________________________

Marla L. Lien
General Counsel

_____________________________________________

Bruce Abel
Assistant General Manager,
Bus Operations

_____________________________________________

Doug MacLeod
Controller

_____________________________________________

Scott Reed
Assistant General Manager,
Communications
Heather Copp
Chief Financial Officer

_____________________________________________
_____________________________________________

Packet Pg. 213

12.B

4.2

a. Checks of $25,000 or less may be signed by using a signature plate with
the signature of
David A. Genova
General Manager

___________________________________________

b. Checks over $25,000, up to and including $100,000 must be signed by
two of the following authorized RTD employees; with at least one signature
being manual.

David A. Genova
General Manager

____________________________________________

Marla L. Lien
General Counsel

___________________________________________

Bruce Abel
Assistant General Manager,
Bus Operations
____________________________________________
Doug MacLeod
Controller
____________________________________________
Scott Reed
Assistant General Manager,
Communications
____________________________________________
Heather Copp
Chief Financial Officer

_____________________________________________

c. Checks over $100,000 must be signed by a Board officer and one of the
authorized RTD employees specified in 4.2.b., above.
d. Irrespective of the amount of the check, only one of the above-named
individuals must sign a check issued to make Payroll withholding deposits or
to make other Payroll-related deposits.

Packet Pg. 214

12.B

ARTICLE V
ACCEPTANCE BY BANK

____________________________________________________________________
Printed Name
Title

____________________________________________________________________
Signature
Date
ATTACHMENTS:


2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 215

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (2015-004 : Approval of Bank Signing Authority

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 216

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (2015-004 : Approval of Bank Signing Authority

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 217

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (2015-004 : Approval of Bank Signing Authority

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 218

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (2015-004 : Approval of Bank Signing Authority

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 219

Attachment: 2015 Resolution - 004 Updated Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (2015-004 : Approval of Bank Signing Authority

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 220

13.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David Genova, Interim General Manager

Date: May 6, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 6, 2015

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services Contract
Renewal

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2015
through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $117,000, pursuant to the
Contract Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 2 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to enter into an agreement for
state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a oneyear option (June 30, 2015 through June 29, 2016) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$117,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for

Packet Pg. 221

13.C

Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.
Prepared by Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [11 TO 1]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, James, Lasater, Lubow, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 222

13.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: May 12, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 12, 2015

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

Subject:

Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising
(Paratransit Fleet)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the General Manager or his
designee be authorized to enter into a contract with ZoZo Group, LLC of Denver for the sale and
installation of exterior advertising on ADA paratransit vehicles for the two and one-half year period July
1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with two one-year options for 2018 and 2019. Under the terms of
the recommended action, ZoZo Group, LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of
$45,000 in 2015, $200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever
is greater.
BACKGROUND
On August 20, 2014, a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued soliciting proposals for the sale and
installation of exterior and interior advertising on RTD vehicles. Responses to the RFP were due on
September 25, 2014. This RFP offered proposers the option to submit for one or any of three sections:
1) bus, light rail and commuter rail; 2) ADA paratransit vehicles and 3) other in-vehicle advertising
opportunities. Three responses were received for section 1, and one response was received for each of
section 2 and section 3. The recommendation pertains to section 2) ADA paratransit vehicle advertising.
DISCUSSION
The response for the ADA paratransit section of the RFP was received from ZoZo Outdoor. ZoZo
Outdoor is a sales subsidiary of Denver-based ZoZo Group, LLC – a certified small-, women- and
minority-owned business. To effectively launch and then maintain advertising placements on RTD’s
paratransit fleet, ZoZo Group, LLC is partnering with Main Street Outdoor (located in Broomfield, CO)
and Signarama Colorado (a small, women-owned business in Longmont, CO). Main Street Outdoor
provides 30+ years of marketing research and analysis, contact with media buyers, promotional
companies and prospective advertising clients. Signarama is a full-service production sign subcontractor capable of producing high-quality vinyl ads for direct application to vehicles.
Staff reviewed the proposal for compliance with a set of four minimum qualifications; 1) experience of
firm; 2) onsite key personnel experience; 3) sales history; and 4) financial responsibility. ZoZo Group,
LLC was deemed to have met the minimum qualifications as outlined in the RFP. ZoZo’s proposal was
then evaluated on the merit of the revenue proposal, which factored both a minimum annual guarantee
and percentage of net sales.
ZoZo Group, LLC’s proposal provides a source of revenue to RTD from a source which has not been
accessed prior. The proposed revenue is scaled over the first six months to accommodate the launch of
a new program and provide ZoZo Group, LLC with time to enter the market, solicit advertising customers
and build a base of advertising operations prior to initiating payments to RTD.

Packet Pg. 223

13.D

FINANCIAL IMPACT
ZoZo Group’s financial proposal provides a minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015, $200,000 in 2016
and $210,000 in 2017 or 60 percent of net sales, whichever is greater. Because this is a new revenue
stream for RTD, staff is recommending that the contract be awarded to ZoZo Group.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Award a contract to ZoZo Group, LLC of Denver for the two and one-half year period July 1, 2015
through December 31, 2017 for the exclusive sale of exterior advertising on RTD paratransit
vehicles. Under the terms of this alternative, ZoZo Group would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum
guarantee of $45,000 in 2015, $200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) 60 percent of net
sales, whichever is greater. This is the staff recommendation.
2. Do not award a contract to ZoZo Group, LLC. This alternative is not recommended because the
contract amount proposed by ZoZo Group is new revenue for RTD, the proposal was received
through a competitive RFP process, and there is no indication that a higher revenue figure could be
obtained.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [10 TO 2]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Tobiassen,
Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 224

13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: May 14, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 14, 2015

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

Subject:

January 2016
Changes

Recommended

Fare

Policy

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approves the recommended fare policy changes, as outlined in Attachment A, to take effect beginning
January 1, 2016.
BACKGROUND
In early 2014, RTD staff kicked off an extensive Fare Study including a multidisciplinary task force and a
consultant team led by national leaders in fare policy at CH2M HILL. The objective for the fare study
task force was to determine how to simplify RTD’s fare policies in an equitable and cost-effective
manner to better meet the needs of the District and its customers moving forward. There were five main
goals that the recommendation should achieve: be understandable, be implementable, be equitable,
achieve revenue levels set out in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and facilitate the integration of the
2016 rail and BRT projects.
RTD is unique among transit providers in that its service area covers a very large geographic area and
provides a diverse range of services to meet unique transportation needs for different areas of the
District. This has resulted in fare policies that are somewhat complicated to serve all of the different
service types. RTD has not changed fares since 2011 and has not made significant changes in the fare
structure in close to a decade. Therefore, a full fare study looking at ways to simplify the current fare
policies was a large undertaking that required input from the task force, the consultant team and the
RTD passengers.
Two rounds of preliminary outreach were conducted prior to developing a final recommendation. The
intent was to separate the study into three phases: structure, level and pass programs. The first round
of public outreach was targeted at problem identification to determine what issues exist with the current
policies. The next round of outreach was focused on getting feedback on potential structure options
without providing information on what the corresponding fare levels would be. Passengers made it clear
they were unable to provide meaningful feedback on fare structure options without understanding the
corresponding fare levels. As such, the first two phases of the study were combined and this
recommendation includes both changes in the fare structure and levels.
DISCUSSION
At the February 10, 2015 Operations and Customer Service Committee, RTD staff presented the
recommendation they planned to take to the public for formal feedback. That recommendation included
the elimination of fares zones and transfers and also included a general fare increase. The transfers were
proposed to be replaced with a day pass priced equivalent to a round trip.
Sixteen public hearings were held during March and April and information about the proposed changes
was provided on the RTD website. Customers had the opportunity to comment on the proposal at the

Packet Pg. 225

13.E

public hearings, via the website, or via a phone line and comment cards. A summary of participation and
the results of that outreach are summarized in Attachment B. An online survey was also available for
passengers to provide feedback to staff on the recommendation as well as to comment on the tradeoff
between service reductions and fare increases. Over 1,000 individuals responded to that survey and in
general the results are consistent with previous findings that customers prefer a fare increase as
compared to a reduction in service.
Many individuals that commented during the hearings and on the website indicated that proposing both
a significant fare structure change and an increase in fare levels at the same time was confusing. And,
not surprisingly, many of the comments focused on the hardship that will be brought upon with a fare
increase especially for low-income individuals, who rely the most on transit. However, many individuals
were able to provide insightful comments regarding the fare structure that were instrumental in helping
staff to refine the recommendation.
The introduction of a day pass priced at a round trip and available on board the bus received very
positive feedback. This will allow passengers to have the flexibility to make multiple trips on RTD in a
given day without paying more than they would for one round trip. However, a few individuals
expressed a desire to have the flexibility to make only one trip in a day that requires transfers without
having to pay double the fare. The revised recommendation includes the ability to get a transfer if a
passenger pays using a smart card once they are available. This will provide flexibility for passengers to
determine the best option for their travel on any given day.
One of the other major comments from the public outreach was that it did not seem equitable among
modes to allow all rail trips to be equivalent to a Local bus fare but still have Express and Regional bus
fares. As such, the recommendation has been modified to include two fare levels for both bus and rail.
The rail zone structure has been simplified from four to three zones and is shown in Attachment A. The
Express and Regional fare categories have been consolidated into one category to be referred to as
“Regional”. Simplified fare matrix tables have been developed for all bus routes that will be in the
Regional category, which will allow passengers taking short trips on Regional routes to pay a Local fare.
There were also multiple comments regarding the increase on Access-a-Ride fares being too high since
they are priced at twice the comparable cash fare. The proposal has been modified to set the Access-aRide fare at twice the proposed smart card “stored value” fare instead of the regular cash fare. At this
time and into the foreseeable future, Access-a-Ride vehicles are not equipped to accept smart cards so
this will provide the same discount level to those passengers that they would be able to get if they could
pay with stored value.
As required by FTA for all fare changes, a Title VI equity analysis has been completed for the fare
changes outlined in Attachment A. No Title VI equity concerns were found with the recommended
changes per the RTD Board adopted Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy. A summary of
the key findings are included in Attachment C. The equity analysis is currently under FTA review for
technical assistance to ensure the analysis methodology is compliant with FTA guidelines. Note that an
additional equity analysis will be required for the full implementation of smart card, including an
evaluation of the access to the retail distribution network.
The next phase of the study is to evaluate pass programs including low-income programs and Eco and
CollegePass programs. Further Title VI equity analysis will be required during this phase for pass
programs. This recommendation does not include any changes to current pass program pricing. During
the public feedback period, RTD heard from an organized coalition of the Mile High Connects Affordable
Fares Task Force requesting RTD to implement a widely available low-income discount fare. During the

Packet Pg. 226

13.E

next phase RTD will continue to collaborate with this group and other interested stakeholders on two
initiatives: 1. Determine how best to streamline RTD’s existing Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program
and 2. Evaluate the feasibility and timeline for implementing a fiscally sustainable low-income discount
program.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The fare policy changes outlined in Attachment A are forecast to generate enough revenue to meet the
$131.3 million revenue target identified for 2016 in the 2014 Board adopted Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP).
These projections assume a price increase in EcoPass and CollegePass pricing in accordance with current
policies. This proposal would result in an approximately 12 to 13 percent increase in contract pricing per
the current agreements. A full evaluation of pass programs including the financial impacts of changes to
EcoPass, CollegePass and the non-profit agency program will be completed during the next phase that is
already underway and expected to continue in the next several months.
ALTERNATIVES
1) Adopt the proposed 2016 fare policy changes as recommended in Attachment A. This is the
recommended alternative.
2) Adopt alternative fare policy changes for 2016. This is not recommended as an extensive
analysis was conducted to develop these policies that will both simplify the current fare structure
and achieve the SBP revenue targets.
3) Do not adopt any fare policy changes for 2016. This is not recommended as our current policies
do not achieve the SBP revenue targets and would require reductions in service levels. In
addition, the current policies will be difficult to implement with the opening of the new services in
2016.
ATTACHMENTS:


Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27



Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

(DOCX)
(PPTX)

PASSED [11 TO 1]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten,
Tobiassen, Walker
Paul Solano
Lorraine Anderson, Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 227

13.E

Packet Pg. 228

13.E.a

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016
5/19/15

Preliminary Recommendation: Eliminate transfers and rail zones. Price all rail trips except
those to or from DIA equivalent to a Local bus fare. Set the fare levels as follows:
 Local Bus/Rail: $2.60
 Express Bus: $4.50
 Regional Bus: $5.50
 Airport Bus or Rail: $10
Final Recommendation: Have two fare levels for both bus and rail. Modify the existing
zone structure on the rail system to three zones plus Airport instead of four zones to
accommodate two instead of three fare levels. Consolidate Express and Regional bus fares
into one “Regional” bus fare category. Eliminate transfers for cash paying passengers.
Current Regular One-Way
Cash Fare

Proposed Regular Single
Boarding Cash Fare

Local

$2.25

$2.60

Express

$4.00

Regional

$5.00

Airport (SkyRide)

$9/$11/$13

$4.50
$9.00

REGULAR STORED VALUE (SMART CARD) FARES
Preliminary Recommendation: Allow passengers paying with a smart card to receive a 25
cent discount.
Final Recommendation: Allow passengers paying with a smart card to receive a 25 cent
discount and transfers. Transfers will only be allowed for passengers paying with a smart
card and the current transfer rules apply (3 hours in one direction of travel). Regular fare
levels for one-way trips for passengers paying with smart card:
 Local Bus or Rail: $2.35
 Regional Bus or Rail: $4.25
 Airport Bus or Rail: $8.75
REGULAR DAY PASSES
Preliminary Recommendation: Price day passes equivalent to twice the regular cash fare
and provide access to them on board buses and at all rail stations. Allow passengers to
use a Regional Day Pass to travel to/from the Airport.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

REGULAR CASH FARES

Final Recommendation: No change from preliminary recommendation.

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 229

13.E.a

Current Regular Day Pass
Price

Proposed Regular Day Pass
Price

Local

$6.75

$5.20

Express

$11.50

Regional

$14.00
n/a

$9.00

Note: Day Passes are currently available from RTD and retail sales outlets and Ticket
Vending Machines. Under the proposal they will also be available on board the bus.
REGULAR MONTHLY PASSES
Preliminary Recommendation: Monthly pass price set at 40 boardings. Regional Monthly
Passes could be used for travel to/from the Airport. Maintain the ValuPass option that
allows passengers to receive 12 Monthly Passes for the price of 11.
Final Recommendation: Monthly pass price set at 38 boardings and Regional Monthly
Passes are valid for travel to/from the Airport. Maintain the ValuPass option that allows
passengers to receive 12 Monthly Passes for the price of 11.
Current Regular Monthly Pass
Price

Proposed Regular Monthly
Pass Price

Local

$79

$99

Express

$140

Regional

$176

Airport (SkyRide)

$140/$176

$171
$171

DISCOUNT CASH FARES
RTD offers half price discount fares for seniors 65+, individuals with disabilities, Medicare
recipients, and students in elementary, middle and high school, ages 6-19. Proof of
eligibility is required when boarding. No changes are recommended to the eligibility criteria
to receive discount fares.
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain discount cash fares at half of the regular cash fare
during all hours of the day.
Final Recommendation: No change from preliminary recommendation. The discount fare
levels changed commensurate with the changes to the regular fares.
Current Discount One-Way
Cash Fare

Proposed Discount Single
Boarding Cash Fare

Local

$1.10

$1.30

Express

$2.00

Regional

$2.50

Airport (SkyRide)

$4.50/$5.50/$6.50

$2.25

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

Airport (SkyRide)

$9.00

$4.50

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 230

13.E.a

DISCOUNT STORED VALUE (SMART CARD) FARES

Final Recommendation: No change from preliminary recommendation. Discount fare levels
for one-way trips for passengers paying with smart card:
 Local Bus or Rail: $1.15
 Regional Bus or Rail: $2.10
 Airport Bus or Rail: $4.35
DISCOUNT DAY PASSES
Preliminary Recommendation: Extend the half price discount to the Day Pass product.
Final Recommendation: No change from preliminary recommendation. The discount fare
levels changed commensurate with the changes to the regular fares.
Current Day Pass Price for
Discount Passengers

Proposed Discount Day Pass
Price

Local

$6.75

$2.60

Express

$11.50

Regional

$14.00

Airport (SkyRide)

n/a

$4.50
$4.50

Note: RTD does not currently offer the half fare discount on the Day Pass product so if a
discount eligible passenger wanted a Day Pass today they would have to pay the Regular
fare rate. Day Passes are currently available from RTD and retail sales outlets and Ticket
Vending Machines. Under the proposal they will also be available on board the bus and the
half fare discount will be available for Day Passes.
DISCOUNT MONTHLY PASSES
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain the calculation for Discount Monthly Passes at half
of the corresponding Regular Monthly Pass price. Maintain the ValuPass option that allows
passengers to receive 12 Monthly Passes for the price of 11.
Final Recommendation: No change from the preliminary recommendation. The discount
fare levels changed commensurate with the changes to the regular fares.
Current Regular Monthly Pass
Price

Proposed Regular Monthly
Pass Price

Local

$39.50

$49

Express

$70

Regional

$88

Airport (SkyRide)

$70/$88

$85
$85

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

Preliminary Recommendation: Discount passengers pay half of the regular stored value fare
rounded to the down to the nearest 5 cents, resulting in a 15 cent discount.

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 231

13.E.a

ACCESS-A-RIDE CASH FARES
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain Access-a-Ride cash fares at twice the comparable
cash fare.

Current Access-a-Ride Cash
Fare

Proposed Access-a-Ride Cash
Fare

Local

$4.50

$4.70

Express

$8

Regional

$10

Airport

$26

$8.50
$17.50

REGULAR 10-RIDE TICKETBOOKS
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain a 10 percent discount for 10-Ride ticket books
compared to corresponding cash fares (10 tickets for the price of 9). Each ticket would be
valid for a single boarding instead of a one-way trip.
Final Recommendation: Eliminate 10-Ride tickets and replace with Day Passes (see Day
Pass recommendation).
DISCOUNT 10-RIDE TICKETBOOKS
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain a 10 percent discount for 10-Ride ticket books
compared to corresponding cash fares (10 tickets for the price of 9). Each ticket would be
valid for a single boarding instead of a one-way trip.
Final Recommendation: Eliminate 10-Ride discount tickets and replace with Discount Day
Passes (see Day Pass recommendation).
ACCESS-A-RIDE TICKETBOOKS
Preliminary Recommendation: Continue to offer ticket books that allow Access-a-Ride
passengers to receive a 10 percent discount for purchasing tickets in advance.
Final Recommendation: Ticket book price based on the updated Access-a-Ride fare plus a
10 percent discount.
Current Price per Ride when
Paying with Coupons from a
Ticket Book

Proposed Price per Ride when
Paying with Coupons from a
Ticket Book

Local

$4

$4.25

Express

$7.20

Regional

$9

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

Final Recommendation: Base Access-a-Ride fares on twice the comparable stored value
fare (this results in a 50 cent discount per trip).

$7.65

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 232

13.E.a

AIRPORT SERVICE (SKYRIDE) FOR CHILDREN

Final Recommendation: No changes from preliminary recommendation.
SENIORRIDE FARES
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain the current fare policies that the fares on
SeniorRide and the SeniorShopper services correlate with the half fare discount on regular
compare fixed route cash fares.
Final Recommendation: No changes from preliminary recommendation.
SPECIAL SERVICE FARES
Preliminary Recommendation: Continue the current policy of pricing special services
(BroncosRide, RockiesRide, etc) equivalent to the prevailing fare of the comparable fixed
route service (Local, Express, Regional) serving similar locations. This approach continues
to comply with the FTA charter regulations.
Final Recommendation: No changes from preliminary recommendation.
BUS FARE STRUCTURE
Preliminary Recommendation: Maintain Local, Express and Regional bus fare levels.
Require all passengers on Regional bus routes to pay the Regional fare.
Final Recommendation: Consolidate the Express and Regional fare levels and set price
equivalent to the proposed Express fare level. Refer to the consolidated fare category as
Regional. Allow passengers to pay a Local fare on short trips on Regional routes.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

Preliminary Recommendation: Eliminate the current policy of allowing free trips on SkyRide
for children 15 and under (up to 3 children) when accompanied by an adult fare-paying
passenger. Apply current children fare policies to the Airport service so children age 5 and
under ride for free while children 6-18 would pay the half fare student rate consistent with
other RTD services.

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 233

13.E.a

RAIL FARE STRUCTURE

Final Recommendation: Modify the zone structure to expand the Local fare zone and
merge the Express and Regional zones into one. Trips in one or two zones priced at a Local
fare and three zone trips priced at a Regional fare. Trips to or from the Airport require an
Airport fare.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

Preliminary Recommendation: Eliminate fare zones and price at rail trips except those to or
from the Airport as a Local fare.

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 234

13.E.a

FLEX PASS PROGRAM
The proposed Monthly Pass prices will be applied to the FlexPass Program rates. No other
changes are proposed at this time.

No changes proposed at this time. A staff recommendation is anticipated in the next two
to three months. The current revenue projections include an approximately 12 to 13
percent increase consistent with the 2009 Board policy for pass program pricing.
COLLEGE PASS PROGRAM
No changes proposed at this time. A staff recommendation is anticipated in the next two
to three months. The current revenue projections include an approximately 12 to 13
percent increase consistent with the 2009 Board policy for pass program pricing.

NEIGHBORHOOD ECOPASS PROGRAM
No changes proposed at this time. A staff recommendation is anticipated in the next two
to three months. The current revenue projections include an approximately 12 to 13
percent increase consistent with the 2009 Board policy for pass program pricing.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

ECO PASS PROGRAM

Attachment A
Fare Policy Recommendation for 2016

Packet Pg. 235

Attachment B
Summary of Public Feedback
Regarding Proposed 2016 Fare Changes
The following is a summary of public feedback on Fare Study recommendations gathered
at 16 public hearings held March 23-April 8 across the Regional Transportation District,
and collected by phone, comment cards, letters and via an online comment form.







500 people attended public hearings in Arvada, Aurora, Boulder, Denver,
Edgewater, Englewood, Highlands Ranch, Lakewood, Littleton, Longmont, Parker,
Stapleton, Thornton and Westminster.
57 left messages on a phone comment line.
58 filled out comment cards.
55 sent letters.
788 submitted online comments.

Summary of Comments—Public Hearings
















Fare increases would disproportionately affect people with disabilities, seniors, lowincome riders and other vulnerable populations relying on the RTD system.
If these proposed fare changes are approved, RTD will have the highest Local bus
fare in the country.
Please round fares to $2.50 and $5; no one carries dimes.
RTD should increase ridership to get more revenue instead of raising fares.
RTD should implement a low-income fare like Seattle’s.
Proposed monthly pass increases are too high.
Raise EcoPass prices to offset other fare increases.
Day passes are a good idea.
There should be creative and innovative solutions to allow RTD to provide the same
service levels without fare increases.
RTD should not increase fares without a 50 percent discount fare and pass program
for low-income riders who have income less than 150 percent of the federal
poverty level.
AARP is concerned about a fare increase for individuals between the ages of 50
and 64 who do not qualify for the senior discount and low-income members.
There is inconsistency in the percentage increases of different fares.
The fare proposal disproportionately affects Denver County residents who are
transit dependent.
Medicaid should be included as an eligibility option of the half-fare discount and not
just Medicare.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

13.E.a

Attachment B
Summary of Public Feedback

Packet Pg. 236































RTD is a public entity and should not have nonprofits bear the financial
responsibility of providing discounted fares for low-income individuals.
People riding the light rail in multiple zones will get a decrease in fares and people
in Denver are getting an increase.
RTD should continue its dialogue with the Mile High Connects coalition to develop a
solution for this complex low-income pass issue.
The current schedule has a tight turnaround between the end of the public
comment period and the final staff recommendation presentation to the Board,
which is unfair to the public.
RTD should consider a 10-ride day pass book.
Access-a-Ride passengers should not have to pay double the regular fare.
RTD should consider eliminating the Express fare category and putting Express
buses into the Regional category to further simplify its structure.
The proposal unfairly benefits those who are financially well-off.
RTD should figure out an opportunity to charge for parking at stations.
RTD should consider charging more for the airport trip so tourists contribute more.
RTD should consider turnstiles or a better way to enforce rail fares.
I don’t understand why Denver still uses paper transfers.
The proposed airport fares are too high.
BRT should be priced by where you get on, regardless of where you get off or
which route a passenger is taking.
Higher fares will force people to drive, which will have a negative impact on the
environment.
Flattening rail fares is not equitable (not distance-based).
Misuse of transfers has caused a lot of problems.
Disparate fares for rail and buses are not equitable (local for rail, regional for bus).
EcoPasses should be available for individual purchase.
Transfer elimination discriminates against one-way riders.
DIA workers should have access to an affordable fare.
CU-Boulder believes there are more equitable ways for RTD to reach its revenue
targets.
The Boulder Chamber of Commerce supports the position statement of the U.S. 36
Mayors and Commissioners Coalition and 36 Commuting Solutions.
The Boulder Chamber of Commerce concurs with the City of Boulder: Investment in
the U.S. 36 BRT project should include equitable fares, which should apply across
the system regardless of whether people are served by train or BRT.
The Boulder City Manager supports the points made in the city’s letter to RTD and
the comments provided by the U.S. 36 Mayors and Commissioners coalition and 36
Commuting Solutions.
Executive director of Boulder Transportation Connections calls on RTD to price U.S.
36 fares the same to match proposed rates on rail corridors.

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

13.E.a

Attachment B
Summary of Public Feedback

Packet Pg. 237









A countywide EcoPass is one of the most important issues for the Boulder County
Green Party.
The 33 percent increase, from $79 to $104, for a monthly pass is unfair compared
to the 16 percent increase from $2.25 to $2.60 for a one-way local cash fare.
RTD should implement parking fees at all park-n-rides instead of raising fares.
People understand distance-based fares; charge more the farther you travel,
including DIA, except for airport employees.
RTD should offer a discounted, summer family pass so people can get to
entertainment venues.
I would like to see RTD offer an affordable monthly pass for Access-a-Ride users.
Mile High Connects Executive Director Dace West says: How can you hear this kind
of testimony and philosophically say there’s no space in giving deeper, fuller
consideration to what affordability can really mean for RTD’s biggest customer
base, low-income riders. West encourages RTD to take the feedback from these
public hearings in a really serious, thoughtful and meaningful way and to dig a little
deeper to get to some of the solutions folks have been talking about.

Summary of Comments—Phone Comment Line
RTD received 57 phone messages about the Fare Study. Affordability and equity drew the
most interest with 41 comments. People also asked RTD not to eliminate transfers (8);
said airport fares would be too high for DIA employees (6); and opposed the elimination of
light rail zones on the basis of equity (2).

Summary of Comments—Comment Cards/Letters
RTD received 58 comment cards at 16 public hearings and 55 signed letters that were
delivered to the RTD Administrative Offices. The majority of comments (93) centered on
affordability. People also said transfers should stay in place (10); said they liked day
passes (4); said the pay-per-boarding model would have a negative impact on low-income
riders and cyclists (1); suggested RTD charge more for EcoPasses to offset other fare
increases (6); suggested RTD not eliminate light rail zones (1); said smart cards should
auto upgrade and recharge online (1); said RTD should charge for parking (1); said RTD
should increase ridership (2); asked that RTD round fares (5); and said BRT pricing should
be the same as rail (1).

Summary of Comments—Online Comments
RTD received 788 online comments at www.rtd-denver.com/farestudy. Most online
comments cited affordability as the most pressing issue (376). People also commented on
transfers (154); equity (125); support for the plan (99); said monthly passes are too high
(93); agreed with day passes (72); supported the elimination of light rail zones (72); asked
RTD to round fares to $2.50 and $5 (70); asked for a smart card system (39); expressed

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

13.E.a

Attachment B
Summary of Public Feedback

Packet Pg. 238

concern over high airport fares (38); liked the idea of a day pass (36); said airport fares
were too high for DIA employees (35); asked that light rail zones not be eliminated (29);
offered service planning feedback (22); supported no distance on bus (17); called for
greater fare enforcement (14); called on RTD to implement a barrier system (14); said rail
should cost more than bus (8); said children should ride for free (7); said Express/Regional
should cost more (7); asked RTD to adopt a round-trip airport fare good for 30 days (6);
asked RTD to consolidate Express/Regional fares (5); asked RTD to offer free local fares
(4); and asked RTD to improve technological capabilities such as offering a mobile app
allowing riders to track smart card balances (4).

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

13.E.a

Attachment B
Summary of Public Feedback

Packet Pg. 239

Attachment C
Summary of Key Findings from the Title VI Equity
Analysis Regarding Proposed 2016 Fare Changes
The recommended fare changes did not result in any Title VI equity concerns per the RTD
Board adopted Disparate Impact and Disproportionate Burden Policy which states that the
impacts of a change in fares on low-income and minority riders should be within plus or
minus five percent when compared to all riders. To complete the fare equity analysis, the
average fare per trip was calculated for each type of fare media for all RTD passengers
(overall population) and those average fares were compared to the average fares for lowincome and minority riders. The equity analysis is under FTA review for technical
assistance to ensure the analysis methodology is compliant with FTA guidelines. The key
findings are described below and a table showing a summary of the results is also
provided.
1. When viewing the fare change from a total system perspective, the average fare for
the proposed change for the overall riders is $2.74, for low-income riders it is $2.72
(one percent lower), and for minority riders it is $2.81 (three percent higher).
2. As a whole, low-income and minority populations experienced a 14 percent increase in
their average fare per trip, compared with a 13 percent increase experienced by the
overall rider population.
3. Low-income riders experienced slightly smaller increase in some fare categories (Cash
and Day Pass Discount) which account for about 16 percent of the low-income
population. Minority riders experience slightly smaller increases in one fare category
(Cash Full Fare) which accounts for 7 percent of the minority population. In all cases,
differences of the increases are within 1-2 percent of the overall population’s average
fare.
4. Twenty-four percent of minority riders experience the same increase as the overall rider
population. About 56 percent of low-Income populations experience the same increase
as the overall rider population.
5. Minority riders experience slightly higher increases in some fare categories (Stored
Value, Day Pass and Monthly pass) than overall riders, which accounts for 61 percent
of the minority population. In these cases, the differences are within 1-4 percent of the
overall population’s average fare.
6. As highlighted in dark red the table below, two fare categories resulted in the overall
riders experiencing a much better outcome than minority populations.
a. Stored Value Discount fares resulted in a nine percent decrease for overall
riders, but a one percent decrease for minority populations. However, this is not
considered to be a concern since this is for a very small percentage of the
population (0.4% or 123,500 riders).
b. Day Pass Discount resulted in a nine percent higher fare under the proposal, but
the minority population’s average fare was 15 percent higher. This impact is

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

13.E.a

Attachment C
Summary of Title VI Equity Analysis Findings

Packet Pg. 240

13.E.a

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes)

shown to be reduced in the future once smart card is fully implemented and
these minority passengers would transition to stored value with free transfers.

Attachment C
Summary of Title VI Equity Analysis Findings

Packet Pg. 241

Attachment: Fare Policy Attachments_Updated 5-27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.a

Attachment C
Summary of Title VI Equity Analysis Findings

Packet Pg. 242

FARE STUDY
RECOMMENDATION
Operations & Customer Service Committee
May 19, 2015

1

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 243

Summary Recommendation
Local Bus
Local Rail

Regional Bus*
Regional Rail

Airport Bus
Airport Rail

Single Boarding with
Cash

$2.60/$1.30

$4.50/$2.25

$9.00/$4.50

One-way Trip with
Smart Card**

$2.35/$1.15

$4.25/$2.10

$8.75/$4.35

Day Pass

$5.20/$2.60

$9.00/$4.50

$9.00/$4.50

$99/$49

$171/$85

$171/$85

Monthly Pass***

Notes: Regular Price / Discount Price
Discount fares apply to all seniors 65+, individuals with disabilities, Medicare
recipients, and students ages 6-19. Proof of eligibility is required when boarding.
*Express and Regional categories have been combined and will be referred to as
Regional
**Fares paid with a smart card would include transfers
***Monthly pass is priced equivalent to 38 boardings

Forecast to achieve the 2016 SBP fare revenue target

2

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 244

Recommendation Details:
Rail Fares – Updated Zones (Final)

3
Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 245

Recommendation Details:
US 36 BRT / Regional Bus Routes
• Fares on US 36 BRT and Regional bus
routes priced consistent with rail zones
Example: US 36 BRT Fares
Trip

Example: Fares for North I-25 Bus Routes

Trip

Fare

Wagon Road

Denver

Regional

Wagon Road

Thornton

Local

Thornton

Denver

Local

Fare

Boulder

Table Mesa
McCaslin

Local

Boulder

Flatiron
Broomfield
Church Ranch
Westminster
Denver

Regional

Denver

Westminster

Local

Denver

Church Ranch
Broomfield
Flatiron
McCaslin
Boulder

Regional

McCaslin
Flatiron

Broomfield
Church Ranch

Local
4

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 246

Recommendation Details:
Airport
• Bus or Rail trips starting or ending at the
Airport: $9
• Regional Monthly and Day Passes valid
for trips to or from the Airport
• Trips to destinations other than the Airport
on the East Rail Line or SkyRide bus
routes do not require the Airport fare
• Children over age 5 no longer ride free to
the Airport
– Half fare consistent with the rest of the system
5

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 247

Recommendation Details:
Smart Card Incentives
• Transfers available for
passengers paying with
stored value
– Current transfer rules apply:
3 hour window and no round
trips

• 25 cent discount on
single trips with stored
value (15 cent discount
on Discount Fare)

6

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 248

Recommendation Details:
Access-a-Ride
• Access-a-Ride priced at double the regular
smart card fare
• Continue to sell Access-a-Ride ticket
books that offer a 10% discount
Current and Proposed Access-a-Ride (ADA) Fares
Local

Express

Regional

DIA

Current Fare: 2x Regular
fare

$4.50

$8.00

$10.00

$26.00

Proposed Fare: 2x smart
card Regular fare

$4.70

n/a

$8.50

$17.50

($4.00)
($4.25)

($7.20)

($9.00)
($7.65)

($24.00)

Note: Price shown in parenthesis is the average single trip fare when paid with coupons from a ticket book

7

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 249

Title VI Equity Analysis
• No Title VI Equity concerns found with
the recommended changes in structure
and fare levels
• Analysis assumed limited availability of
stored value
– Full implementation of smart card will require
additional equity analysis including an
evaluation of access to the retail distribution
network
8

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 250

Implementation Schedule
• January 1, 2016: Implementation of
new fare policies
– Day Pass Printers on the buses
– Paper Day and Monthly passes available at
retail outlets
– Ticket Vending Machines programmed for
new fare levels

• January – June 2016: Phased roll out of
smart card improvements
9

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 251

Next Steps:
EcoPass and CollegePass Pricing
• EcoPass and CollegePass contract pricing to
be determined during the next phase
– Equity analysis of pass programs will be included in
the next phase

• Current policy would result in an approximately
12-13% increase in contract prices
– Based on the general fare increase factored for
ridership

• Pass program pricing not included as part
of this recommendation
– Updates and recommendation expected by mid to
late summer
10

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 252

Next Steps:
Low Income Pass Programs
• Solicit input from agencies currently
participating in the non-profit reduced fare
program, the Affordable Fares Task Force
and other interested community members to
determine how to move forward with two
initiatives:
– Streamline the current non-profit agency reduced
fare program
– Continue to work with stakeholders towards the
development and implementation of a fiscally
sustainable income based discount fare program

• Updates and recommendation expected by
mid to late summer
11

Attachment: Fare Study FINAL Recommendation May 27 (2369 : January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy

13.E.b

Packet Pg. 253

13.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: May 14, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

May 14, 2015

Board Meeting Date: May 26, 2015

Subject:

Videotaping RTD Board Meetings Board Report

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General
Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all RTD Board meetings, committee meetings
and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD website for public viewing. This action also
approves the initial upfront costs not to exceed $25,000 to purchase and install equipment necessary to
record the meetings. In addition, this action approves funding for a contract technician to facilitate the
video recording at each meeting and an offsite contractor to provide closed captioning services. These
services combine for an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $35,000 a year.
BACKGROUND
The RTD Board has expressed an interest in researching the possibilities of recording all Board meetings,
committee meetings and study sessions and having the videos available on the RTD website for public
viewing. This would involve recording of about 60 meetings a year – all Board meetings, committee
meetings and study sessions held in the R, T & D Rooms at RTD headquarters and the RTD Board
Conference Room in the Board Office.
Staff researched various options for pursuing this effort including utilizing college students, purchasing
equipment and hiring a video technician to facilitate recording of each meeting, and hiring a professional
videographer who would be responsible for providing all equipment and staff. After evaluating the
research, it was determined that the most reliable and cost effective option would be to purchase the
necessary video equipment, have it professionally installed, engage a contract technician to facilitate the
recording of each meeting, and engage a contract with a closed-captioning service.
DISCUSSION
RTD staff worked with audio-visual professionals to determine the best approach for designing the
equipment needs to outfit both meeting rooms – the R, T & D rooms and the Board Conference Room.
Equipment
The minimal amount of equipment necessary to record Board meetings in the R, T & D rooms includes:






Two stationary video cameras mounted to the ceiling of the R, T & D Board meeting room
Cabling and hardware
A “switcher” to switch between cameras to capture Board view and audience/podium view
Field (mobile) recorder
Hard drive to store video files

The equipment necessary to record meetings in the Board Conference Room includes:




One stationary video camera mounted to the ceiling of the Board Conference Room
Cabling and hardware
Field (mobile) recorder

Packet Pg. 254

13.F



Table microphones to record sound

Professional Services
In addition to equipment, video recording would require a video technician and captioner to provide
closed captioning services, to cover the estimated number of meetings annually:





12 Executive Committee Meetings x 2 hours = 24 hours
144 Board meetings, committee meetings and study sessions x 3 hours = 144 hours
Video Technician – $12,600/year
Closed Captioning Stenographer – $20,160/year

In accordance with RTD’s Materials Management Policy, the purchase and installation of equipment, the
procurement of a video technician and the procurement of a closed captioning service will each need to
undergo a bidding process.
Video Recording Process
Prior to each meeting the video technician will ensure that the audio and video equipment is set for
recording. During the meeting the technician will monitor video and audio feeds and switch between
cameras from the switcher control board depending on the discussion and activity in the meeting.
Closed captioning will be provided for each meeting through a captioning stenographer who would dial
into a phone line, listens to RTD’s audio stream of the meeting and transcribe the audio real-time
through an encoder that inserts the captioning onto the video stream.
The video recording with closed captioning will then be captured on a hard drive. Following the meeting,
the technician will upload the video file for RTD staff to retrieve. An RTD staff member will then add the
meeting title and date to the file and upload the finalized video to the agency’s YouTube account with a
link under the RTD Board section of the RTD website for public access.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds are currently not budgeted for this effort. For 2015, expenses related to the purchase and
installation of video equipment and technician services could be funded through the General Manager’s
Unallocated Account. For future years, funds for technician services would be accounted for in the
annual budget through the appropriately determined department.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to implement a system to audio and video record all
RTD Board meetings, committee meetings and study sessions, and post the videos to the RTD
website for public viewing. This action also approves the initial upfront costs not to exceed $25,000
to purchase and install equipment necessary to record the meetings. In addition, this action approves
funding for a contract technician to facilitate the video recording at each meeting and an offsite
contractor to provide closed captioning services. These services combine for an estimated not-toexceed amount of $35,000 a year.
2. Accept a slightly modified version of the Recommended Action. Authorize the General Manager to
implement a system to video record only the Board meetings, committee meetings and study
sessions that occur in the R, T & D rooms. This would exclude the Executive Committee Meetings
that occur once a month in the Board Conference Room and reduce the cost of this initiative to a
not-to-exceed amount of $15,000 in the purchase and installation of equipment, and an annual notto-exceed cost of $28,080 including professional support services.
3. Accept an either further modified version of the Recommended Action. Authorize the General
Manager to implement a plan to video record only the regular monthly Board meetings. This would

Packet Pg. 255

13.F

exclude all Board Committee meetings and Study Sessions and reduce the cost of this initiative to a
not-to-exceed amount of $15,000 in the purchase and installation of equipment, and an annual notto-exceed cost of $7,020 additional in professional support services, for a total annual not-to-exceed
cost of $22,020.
4. Do not accept the Recommended Action or any modification of the action. Do not pursue the video
recording of RTD Board meetings and make them available for public viewing.

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Sr. Manager, Public Relations & Public Information
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 256

