Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
B. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - April 7, 2015
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:

 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 26, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 25, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Local Government Update - CRL Associates

Information

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 26, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 25, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

State
Legislative
Update
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs

-

Information

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 26, 2015

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 25, 2015

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update March 3 2015

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.3.a

MAJOR CONGRESSIONAL ACTIVITY:
The House and Senate spent a good part of last week locked in a stalemate over extending
funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS); the DHS includes the TSA and US
Coast Guard, among other agencies. Congress decided in December to provide only a shortterm appropriation for DHS through the end of February in order to preserve the option to reign
in President Obama’s recent executive actions on immigration by adding policy riders in the fullyear DHS spending bill.
In passing a stop-gap funding measure last Friday evening to keep DHS funded for another 7
days, the House and Senate this week will continue searching for common ground between many
Democrats in both chambers who support many of the President’s immigration actions and a
vocal group of House conservatives who strongly oppose those actions.
TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS:
Amtrak bill in the House:
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) announced
his intention to bring the Committee’s Amtrak authorization bill to the House floor this week.
The bill, which was reported out of the Committee on February 12 with strong bipartisan
support, would:
 authorize funding for Amtrak for the next four years,
 reform Amtrak’s accounting and procurement systems,
 end losses in its food/beverage service, and
 require revenues from the profitable Northeast Corridor to be reinvested in the Corridor.
House and Senate MAP-21 Reauthorization Hearings:
Transportation authorizing committees in both the House and the Senate have begun holding
MAP-21 reauthorization hearings. These deeper policy discussions on improvements to the
surface transportation program get underway even as Members of Congress acknowledge the
lack of progress in identifying additional revenues for the Highway Trust Fund.
On February 11, Secretary Foxx testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee on the Administration’s GROW AMERICA proposal.
 Foxx urged House members to “budget for results, not numbers,” noting that the HTF
revenue shortfall is a bookkeeping number, not a measure of actual needs.
 He advocated for the robust funding increases proposed in GROW AMERICA to
rehabilitate current transportation systems and make improvements to meet long-term
transportation demands.
 While acknowledging the continued role of current motor fuels taxes in funding
transportation, Foxx urged House members not to limit support for surface
transportation programs to user fees alone if they are inadequate to meet needs. A
repatriation tax, while a one-time source, would generate significant revenues for
transportation.

1

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Federal Update March 3 2015 (2265 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: MARCH 3, 2015

On February 25, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee held its second MAP-21
reauthorization hearing.
 Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) made clear his opposition to the “devolution” concept
pushed by some conservatives (including, for several years, by Inhofe himself) that would
dramatically reduce Federal transportation programs, shifting responsibility to build – and
pay for – road, bridge, and transit projects down to the States.
o Inhofe cited both the U.S. Constitution (article 1 section 8, regulation of
commerce among the several states and establishment of post roads) and the
actions of President Eisenhower in establishing the Interstate highway system in
the 1950s to back his view that the conservative position is to support a strong
Federal role in transportation.
 Ranking Member Barbara Boxer (D-CA) criticized the lack of action by the Senate
Finance Committee to identify a revenue solution, noting the need to act well before the
May 31 expiration of MAP-21, so as not to jeopardize the upcoming construction season.
 Senator Boxer pledged to bring her own revenue solutions to the Senate floor for a vote
if the Finance Committee does not act in time.
Chairman Shuster on MAP-21 Reauthorization:
Speaking at a stakeholders’ meeting on February 26, Chairman Shuster sounded more optimistic
than Senator Boxer about the prospects of passing a long-term surface transportation bill.




He stated that we will get a long-term bill because that is what everyone wants, “on both
sides of the aisle, both sides of Capital Hill, and both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.”
Yet he urged stakeholders to keep making the case for robust funding, to “bang the
drum” on Capitol Hill.
While citing Adam Smith’s Wealth of Nations to support his view that even in a free market
economy the Federal government should play a significant role in transportation, Shuster
pledged the House bill would contain reforms aimed at “getting the Federal government
out of the way” of projects, so they could be approved more quickly and built less
expensively.

WASHINGTON FLY-IN:





Looking forward to seeing many of you here in Washington next week.
Highly informative APTA Legislative Conference:
o CNN’s Candy Crowley will open the conference with her analysis of the most
pressing issues facing Congress and the Obama Administration today.
o You will also hear directly from Congressional and Administration officials on
their transportation priorities. Speakers include:
 US DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx,
 Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), the Ranking Member of the Senate Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee; and
 Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), the Ranking Member of the Highways
and Transit Subcommittee of the House T and I Committee.
Two busy days of meetings on Capitol Hill and at Federal agencies.

2

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Federal Update March 3 2015 (2265 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

1.B.3.a

