2022-05-11
Operations and Safety Committee
PAUL ROSENTHAL: The Operations and Safety Committee will now come to order. We are convened as
of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meeting some of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the
official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's [AUDIO OUT] site visit rtd [AUDIO OUT] .com, and scroll to the bottom of the
page for the link to the Board of Directors page. Would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceeding,
I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Can everybody hear me OK? My internet was a little unstable. Can you hear me?
BOB BROOM: I can hear you loud and clear.
TROY WHITMORE: There was some instability times there, Chair, but we're hearing you now.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to
the proceedings. Directors and staff [AUDIO OUT] participating by phone-- I know we're going to do the roll
call, but I believe we may have Director Tisdale by phone-- can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that
they would like to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your setting on the phone press star [AUDIO OUT].
I'd like to now call the role for the committee members. Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Shantel Lewis.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Doug Tisdale. Let's see if he is-- do we see any virtual hands? Let's see, where my-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Ope, there is-- Director Tisdale, I see your photo. You're there? All right, I'll assume
you're there based on your photo. Let me continue. For the record, I see that we have five Directors present.
Are there any other Directors? Perhaps I'll also acknowledge who are here who are not on the committee.
I beg your pardon?

I heard some noise, but I didn't hear somebody saying anything.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: My apologies. I apologize. Yes, I forgot to put the mute on. I will do that now. Thank you
very much for your kind patience.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No worries. There's Director Broom. OK. So welcome, as well, Director Broom. OK,
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the Committee regarding any topic
listed in the published Meeting Agenda for the current immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak
and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star nine on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star six to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for our committee or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please [AUDIO OUT] materials [AUDIO OUT] email address,
rtd.boardoffice [AUDIO OUT]. Directors or staff may contact speakers following in their comments if they
raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. And let's see. Ms. McManus, do if we have any speakers?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no speakers in the queue and there were no comments sent in via the email
box.
- Director Williams-- Director Williams has her hand up because she'd like to be recognized as being in
attendance.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, my apologies, Director Williams. So yes, we would like to recognize Director
Williams. And so I'm also sorry the Directors. I have one computer open, so I'm toggling between my video
and my script. So please do bear with me. My apologies to you, Director Williams and previously to Director
Broom that I did not immediately see you.
So we have no comments or nobody wishing to speak with us by phone or by video or-- rather by phone
and we have no emails. Therefore, we will close the public comment at this time. Information from external
entities, there is no information from an external entities this month.
And going to the next agenda item, we have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. That
recommended action is 2022 Title VI program update.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes, Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry to interrupt you. Apologize. I believe that the General Manager had something
that she wanted to say.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. I will get to that. Thank you very much, Director Williams. I'm just introducing the
topic. And I will most certainly ensure that our General Manager has an opportunity to say-- to introduce
this as well. For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 Title VI program update report and compliance
with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act 1964.
Title VI, do we have a motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Director Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Directors Lewis and Bouquet. Before we hear from Carl Green Jr., Transit
Equity Manager to present any pertinent information regarding this item, I'd like to call on our General
Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, if she has any introductory remarks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And good evening to all of you Board members
and to all those that are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO, as
introduced. As you stated momentarily, Carl Green Jr., who is our Transit Service Equity Manager will be
presenting to you our Title VI program update.
But in advance of this presentation, I would be remiss not to say that equity is a core principle of RTD's
functional mission to provide public transit services to the Denver Metro region. Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 and Executive Order 12898 pertaining to environmental justice has reinforced this principle.
From my review of previous RTD Title VI programs, equity was defined by law and was primarily used as
a conduit for compliance.
Expounding upon previous efforts, the 2022 Title VI program update was systematically developed and
organized not only meet compliance, but to exceed the standard. Thus supporting the momentous
opportunity to truly operationalize transit equity efforts within the agency and especially, for our most
vulnerable customers. The 2022 Title VI program differs from previous program updates in that the updated
program is positioned to be in alignment with the agency's strategic plan. Specifically the priorities of
community value, customer excellence, employee ownership.
And staff is integrated four metrics that are contained in the performance scorecard on pages 24, 25, and
26 of the strategic plan. And those metrics are community perception of equity, community perception as it
relates to language services accessibility. And those are in support of community value.
Equitable distribution of services and resources across the RTD system are the metrics in support of
customer excellence. And then employee awareness of the Title VI program rounds out our employee
ownership priority. So by integrating elements of the Title VI program into the strategic plan, this canonized

is the agency's overall approach to achieve true transit equity, to uphold our Title VI assurances as well as
to ensure we are making lives better through connections.
Simply put, this program update will serve as a catalyst to elevate equity in a way that exceeds the Federal
Transit Administration's requirements and that RTD is moving beyond the letter and spirit of Title VI, which
can be applauded across transit agencies as a best practice for achieving equity. So my sincere thanks to
Cal Green Jr., who was approached enhancing our Title VI program by embodying the agency values of
passion, trustworthiness, respect, collaboration, diversity, and ownership with the intention of making lives
better through connections.
So I will now yield the floor to Mr. Green to take you through the Title VI program. So I just wanted to give
them a shout out. So thank you so much. We're fortunate to have him on the team.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you very much, General Manager Johnson. Just real quick-- sorry Mr.
Green-- I do have to recognize a couple other Directors who have joined us. That would be Director Catlin
and Director Whitmore. Any other Directors I'm be missing who just joined us? I think that's it.
Without further ado, thank you, General Manager Johnson, and Here is Mr. Carl Green Jr. Thank you very
much.
CARL GREEN: Yes, I'd be remiss if I did not say thank you, thank you to our General Manager and CEO.
That was a wonderful introduction. And it got me-- got my juices flowing and a little bit pumped up. Just
really excited. I know I heard a lot about Title VI. And I can hear that all day and all evening long.
That's something that I'm truly passionate about, especially when we think about civil rights and social
justice. So I just appreciate that. And with that being said, Chair Rosenthal, fellow RTD Board of Directors,
I'll go ahead and pull up the slide deck and begin the presentation.
All right, once again, good evening, good evening. My name is Carl Green Jr., Transit Equity Manager Civil
Rights Division. And just to reiterate, I'll be presenting on the 2022 Title VI program update.
So just to give you an outline of what to expect for this evening, I will give it an overview-- a Title VI overview,
the requirements as it relates to the Federal Transit Administration and federal law. I will move into the
proposed policy changes. And then I will get into the service monitoring report, as well as provide an update
and overview update of our language access plan efforts.
And then rounding it out, I will be going over the recommendation as well as the next steps for the RTD
Board of Directors. So the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 essentially set is the authority that sets the
legal precedent for transit properties. In essence, Title VI provides transit agencies with non-discrimination
requirements for folks that fall under race, color, national origin.
One thing that I did want to mention as General Manager and CEO mentioned, equity defined by law. And
with this program update, this is something that we see as a floor. And it's and it's more or less a compliance
driven aspect. But the beauty of this 2022 Title VI program update, which is very exciting that I get to present

this to the RTD Board of Directors, is that y'all have the opportunity to adopt and approve of a civil rights
program update that's going to set the tone for years to come.
So I really wanted to express that and say how excited I am to present this to you all this evening. So as a
requirement of the FTA, they require that every three years, transit properties provide a summary of RTD
efforts to promote equity and ensure compliance, specifically non-discrimination within their Title VI program
update. Specifically, for this evening, what this update includes is system-wide service standards and
policies, the 2021 service performance monitoring report, and the language access plan.
As described on pages 22 and 23 of the Board packet, there are three proposed Title VI policy updates.
We have the disparate impact policy, the disproportionate burden policy, and access considerations, which
I will go into further detail momentarily. Prior to speaking to the proposed policy updates, I will first define
the current service disparate impact policy as described on Board packet 22. And as the policy is defined,
it is to determine the effects of a major service reduction at the line level the percentage of RTD's impacted
minority population compared to the percentage of RTD's impacted non-minority population.
If the percentage of the minority population impacted is at least 10% greater than the percentage of nonminority population impacted, then the impact of those changes will be considered disparate. As you can
see in the bottom of the slide here, I would like to make note that this is the exact same policy for low
income population but it is defined under the disproportionate burden policy. For simplicity sake and to save
one slide, I just wanted to communicate that it's the exact same policy at the line level.
As far as the proposed policy addition to supplement the line level, here is the proposed policy addition to
the way in which we conduct service equity analysis. This is a best practice or a methodology that we utilize- or that was introduced rather during the COVID service reductions equity analysis that took place-- that
was presented before the Board last April. So the addition is as stated.
To determine the system effects of major service change on more than one route or line, it's the percentage
of RTD's impacted minority population is compared to the percentage of the RTD's impacted-- of RTD's
impacted non-minority population. And the threshold is as following. If the percentage of minority population
is at least 10% greater than the percentage of the non-minority population impacted, then the overall impact
of changes will be considered disparate. Again here, the exact same policy is being proposed for low income
populations, which falls under the service disproportionate burden policy.
Before I move on to the next slide, I did want to mention, by introducing or adding this to our service equity
analysis policies, the DI and DB policy, this allows us to take a deeper dive and a better understanding of
the nature of impacts that we are proposing during our service run Board proposals. So again, this is a best
practice and something that allows us to really keen in on the nature of impacts, whether that is service
increases or reductions to our routes and our lines. So that's something that I did want to mention.
One thing I did want to call out in the original slide deck, it mentioned proposed policy. I did make one
correction and I just wanted to mention to you all this evening that is that this is, in fact, a proposed standard,
not a policy. But all the same this is something that needs to be approved by the Board as far as a method

a methodology that is being utilized as part of our service equity analysis. So the proposed standard is to
include access points of interest.
And the importance of this which aligns with the Reimagine RTD principles that was adopted by the Board
is, in addition to looking at how are we adding or reducing service to certain areas of our service district and
where people are-- and equally as important as that is to get a better understanding of where people are
going. So the key public service destinations that we're looking at is retail and convenience stores, schools- so pre-K to college-- social services, senior housing, grocery stores and affordable housing.
We're also baking in or in factoring in employment centers. So why are we making these changes? So this
is an addition to an alignment with the Reimagine RTD Guiding Principles, we received a lot of community
feedback. As it relates to the community feedback, this is another requirement of the FTA.
So for any proposed policy changes or standards to our program, we need to ensure that there is public
involvement. So by virtue of reaching out to community based organizations, which were over 36, to
administering a transit equity survey to presenting and garnering feedback from the Citizens Advisory
Committee to, again, directly connecting with community based organizations to inform the way in which
we are applying or adding in potential changes to our program.
So I now would like to cover the Title VI service monitoring report. As the slide here denotes, this is also a
requirement that's set forth by the FTA, which states that agencies will conduct ongoing performance
monitoring on all modes of service. And I'd like to emphasize that it's fixed route modes of service. It's
required from a compliance standpoint.
Again here, it's directly tied to the RTD 2021-206 strategic plan. And one thing that I wanted to emphasize
is the FTA requires us to conduct this on a triannual basis. RTD is moving in the direction of doing this on
an annual basis, as again, it relates directly to the strategic plan. So instead of waiting three years, we're
able to get in front of our service performance monitoring, which I'll get into a little bit more detail here in
just a moment.
So as reported on pages 56 through 71 of the Board packet, this analysis in this report compared minority
and/or low income access to that of non-minority and/or higher income access across six service
performance metrics for date for data compiled during calendar year 2021. So the six different metrics are
revenue hours, which is the hours while in service, including trips start to finish. And we're looking
specifically again at revenue hours. Secondly, we're looking at on time performance.
And RTD defines it as on time as no more than five minutes late or one minute early. And it's measured by
time points. And then vehicle loads. Essentially, what this looks at is how overcrowded or crowded our
buses are. And what we're looking at is looking at the maximum load factor both seated and standing. And
specifically, as the service monitoring report denotes, is we looked at midday and peak. And the justification
for this is that's where our highest ridership is. And if you look through the report, there's a comparison of
the results.

The next one is service availability. So in line with what the FTA describes, RTD considers persons within
one half mile of bus stops and rail stations as having service available. And then the next one is stops
amenities. So right here, we're looking at the distribution of amenities across our system, specifically looking
at shelters, seating, lighting, waste receptacles, et cetera, in order to identify any potential disparities. And
then the last item we look at is vehicle assignments. And differing from the 2019 is what we're looking at
here is the average age of vehicles that is being distributed across our service district, specifically our
routes.
So to get folks essentially on the same page, I'd like to cover down on the strategic plan and rating scale.
And this is something that I developed to be in line with the RTD strategic plan to more or less communicate
if we're on target, if there's a caution where there's an area for an opportunity or improvement. And then we
have off target. So by definition, what you can see in green to the left on target, it is as good or better on
minority or low-income routes or lines, and it's either equal or less than 10%.
Where we have caution where it meets the measure but flagged for an area of improvement. And that's
greater than 10% and less than 20%. And then we have off target, which basically means it does not meet
the measure and it results in an adverse impact. Within the FTA circular, there's only one measure. And it's
that 20% threshold. So being proactive, we have established this particular rating scale to ensure that we're
moving in the right direction and able to course correct any potential issues prior to getting to that off target
20% threshold.
All right, so the first results that I wanted to cover down on is distribution of amenities. I'd like to call out that
this metric is specifically looking at the percentage of stops with amenity types on minority versus non
minority lines or routes. And specifically, what we're looking at is, again, on the screen seating, lighting,
elevators, digital displays, shelters, signs, maps, trash cans, and ticket vending machines. And I'd also like
to call out little key legend on the bottom, which indicates if there's a green checkmark, that means the
performance metric meets-- or the performance meets metric at the level indicated. Whereas the x is the
performance does not meet.
The big takeaway here is, although we look at it by mode-- so whether that's local, regional, light rail,
commuter rail-- individually, where the results come into play is looking at it at the system level. So that's
something to keep in mind as we go through these results is although there could be a mode of service like
local where it could be flagged, in order to meet the metric, it's at the system level. So that's something that
I wanted to call out. But as you can see here, comparing minority versus non-minority that we did meet this
metric as far as an equitable distribution of our amenities across minority bus stops and platforms.
Now we will be getting into the other remaining five metrics. And that rounds us up for the service standards.
Again, we're specifically looking at minority versus non-minority. And before I get into the actual table, I did
want to call out the acronyms. And as you can see here, LCL is local limited, regional is RCL, light rail, LRT,
commuter rail, CRT and system, which is SYS. Let me move this I could look at the screen.
All right, so as we look at vehicle loads across the board, we can see that it does meet the performance
metric as far as comparing non-minority versus non-minority. It's as good or better. So that's a good thing.

And as we look at revenue hours, you can see that what's called out, it does meet the metric. Again here,
as we look at as good or better, if we look to the far right, at the system level, it does exceed that 10%-- or
it's within that 10% at the system level.
But if we move to the left where it's less than or greater than 10%, we can see that at the system level, it
does not exceed. So although one metric for light rail, it is flagged of exceeding that 20%. And that's an
area of for improvement. But overall, if we look at revenue hours, it does meet the metric. And then the next
item is on-time performance.
So again here, the results are overall. It does meet the metric. So we are in good standing. And then as we
look at vehicle assignment, something that I wanted to mention, which I'll round us out at the tail end, is
that there is a dashed line for vehicle assignment. But if I could just take a moment, I just might as well
bring it up to your since I'm seeing some head nods, is for vehicle assignments.
This is a metric that we are currently still working on. And we want to ensure that we are accurate. And I
know I received some great information from Fred Werhten and from Jessie and company on how we
assign our vehicles. So this is something that we are looking to take a deeper dive. But I did want to mention
that the FTA denotes this as permissible just so long as we have a plan, which we do. And I'll be able to
report on this a little bit later this year. But for the sake of this, we are in good standing by moving forward
with the adoption of the Title VI 2022 program update.
And then as we look at service availability, again here, we meet the metric as far as being able to provide
service or having service available as good or better comparing minority versus non-minority. All right, so
now I'll cover down on low income versus higher income lines and routes. Similar to the results of the
minority versus non-minority, is overall for distribution of amenities, we did meet the measure for an
equitable distribution comparing low-income versus non-low income.
The thing that I did want to call out that although there are red X's on the as good or better, it's still within
that 10%. So we still meet that standard. I will now cover the service standards, vehicle loads, revenue
hours, and on-time performance, vehicle assignment service availability. Similar to minority versus nonminority, it meets the metric for all-- it meets all five metrics with the caveat which is in comparison to the
revenue hours. Or when we're looking at revenue hours, it's specifically commuter rails where there is a
greater than 20%. However, at the system level, we still meet the metric.
So essentially, this slide gives a high level overview if we are going to have a dashboard, if you will. It gives
the overall results at a high level. Again, there's the service performance monitoring report that's in the
Board packet, which covers down on the specific percentages and it breaks it down pretty robustly. But if
there's any questions, feel free to let me know. But I just wanted to mention that.
Again, the RTD strategic plan ensuring equitable distribution of services and resources across the RTD
system, there's a green check mark a green upward arrow indicating that across these different metrics,
that we've met all targets. What I would say that's different from the previous program update that this took
a deeper dive into the analysis. And I would just like to applaud staff across the agency.

This dates back to six or seven months ago to be able to clean the data, compile it, wrangle it, and present
it in a way that's meaningful and to better understand if there are any potential disparities. But as the biggest
takeaway that I can say with this service performance monitoring report is that we met all targets and we
are moving forward with the vehicle assignments to be able to accurately and consistently report on this
measure. So I'll now get into the language access plan. This is something that I'm really excited about.
Overall the intent is to increase language access. And the beauty of this program is, there's a way in which
we-- a tool called the four factor analysis, which is very datacentric and also community engagement driven
on get a better-- internally and externally to better wrap our heads around, how do we increase language
access? What are the best practices? And how do we move the agency in a direction that is moving forward
with respect to language justice?
So by virtue of that four factor analysis, which differs from the previous one, which had seven safe harbor
languages, and that is defined as English language learners that understand read and write English less
than very well. So we have 21 that was identified. And I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge the level of
support across the agency ranging all the way to the top from our General Manager and CEO to our Chief
Administration Officer Lee O'Reilly and just the Civil Rights Division and across the board. AGMs and
communications and transportation, et cetera, because this is going to be all hands on deck effort.
And the beauty of this as you're seeing on the third bullet, the tier two, activities to deepen focus, what we're
moving forward with to really codify and solidify what we're doing as an agency is creating these guidelines
index. So what this affords us to do is being able to update and monitor our language access plan on a
consistent basis to be able to do the research, whether that's working directly with community based
organizations that are serving these populations. And I'm very excited what we have in store of being able
to hold focus groups in different languages. And really just get a better understanding, it's a two way street
of how do we improve this.
And then lastly, the 2022 to 2025 implementation calendar, this is something that's different from the
previous program update in the sense where we are creating a project timeline over the course of three
years. So we have a target that we are aiming for prior to the next program update in 2025. So this is going
to be a guiding map, if you will, for us to be able to increase language access across the board.
And as you can imagine by reading just the language access plan document in the Board packet, there's a
laundry list of items that the agency is moving forward with that already currently implemented, which can
be seen as our efforts as part of the system wide fair study and equity analysis project. But I just would be
remiss if I didn't say how excited I am to really take this deeper dive and just being afforded the opportunity
to have another dedicated resource-- another transit equity specialist to be able to handle the day to day
coordination across the agency as we implement these efforts.
So this is the last slide here. But I just wanted to mention that the recommendation is for the approval of
the RTD Board of Directors of the 2022 Title VI program update. And as far as next steps goes, there's a
Board action on May 24. And then we will then submit to the Federal Transit Administration by May 31,
2022. With that being said, I'll now open up the floor to any questions.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Thank you very much, Mr. Green, for that really incredible and lengthy and
very detailed report. That obviously took a lot of work between you and your team. So really appreciate
that. So at this time, I'd like to ask any Directors who have questions or wish to speak to raise your virtual
hands. I'll call on you in turn.
For Directors or staff calling into the meeting. if you wish to speak, please press star nine. And by the way,
we do have two Directors who are on the committee who probably need to leave around 6:30 PM our time.
So just also keep that in mind for discussion purposes.
One moment. I'm toggling between our-- OK, let's go to Director Lewis. Why don't we start with you? Thank
you very much.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. Green, for a phenomenal presentation. So
you know that equity is like probably the blood that is running through me. And I have never seen such a
beautiful example of how you weave equity into the fabric of an agency and thread the tenets of justice into
an agency.
And I took a few notes as an opportunity to just celebrate you in this moment, because, oh, my goodness.
What a thorough job you have done. But one of the first things I wrote down in my notes was compliance
is the floor. And you said it. And I was like, all right. We're going to be OK. Compliance is the floor.
I noticed in that rapport that you had the survey from the 36 folks. And I was just like, what a great addition
to go out into community and ask about their perceptions and to begin to create those partnerships. Really,
really appreciated that. I really appreciated the threads that you were able to bring from our strategic plan
and to the dashboards, I'll call them, and threading that all together.
So it's like, oh, OK, I see where we're going with this. And I see how equity fits in. And it's not this like an
esoteric thing that you can't really explain. But it's like, no, here are some very great examples of how you
do that from the access considerations to the service monitoring to the strategic planning, the distribution
of amenities.
I am just impressed, like, what a brilliant presentation. So thank you all. General Manager, thank you, Mr.
Green, for you all always hard work. I have not seen an update to this degree to this scale to this excellence
come before us. And so thank you so much. I don't have a question. I just wanted to say that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That's quite all right. You're absolutely right. And I ditto that for sure. Sorry, Director
Whitmore, before we get to you, can we go to Ms. McManus, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I would like, Mr. Green, if you wouldn't mind taking down the presentation so
we can see the gallery.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thanks so much.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I was like, uh-oh. All right, thank you very much, Ms. McManus. And Thank you, Mr.
Green. Director Whitmore. Just take yourself off mute. There you go.
TROT WHITMORE: Thank you. Mr. Chair. Like Director Lewis, I don't have questions. I don't know how
you could have questions after that report. We did see that presentation and heard that presentation last
night in the other committee meeting. And it was just as good tonight, maybe even better.
I appreciate all components and how you wove something that can be kind of benign like statistics into a
real actionable plan. And I learned from your presentation. Again, the one component that was a bit better
tonight was your introduction, Ms. Johnson. That was outstanding tonight.
I think he was shorted a little bit last night. So there you go, Carl. Good Job. Thank you.
CARL GREEN: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Tisdale coming in by phone.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that, Mr. Chairman. Can you hear me OK?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Absolutely.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I too join the comments as to the completeness and the
impactfulness of the report. I particularly noted that in the materials, we had about 16 pages or so of the
report that addressed what I had in the past considered as the basic equity issues that we were addressing.
And then I noticed we spent over 60 pages of the report dealing with the language issues.
And I must say, it's probably the first time that I recall having that kind of detail presented to us relative to
the limited English plan and how we have set forth a pathway toward improving our communications with
all populations in the region. I know that we have, in the past, made a special point of trying to have materials
included in Spanish. But now, to understand that we're looking at efforts to include some communication
capability-- not necessarily all materials, but communication capabilities relative to Vietnamese and
Chinese as being number three and four in language groupings in the Denver metropolitan area, I was
extremely struck by that and impressed.
So I join in the accolades that have been offered and would suggest that it is very appropriate for this
committee to approve the report. And that will be my vote. Thank you very much, Mr Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Next is Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry. I am also on my phone and having problems making this work. But yes, I want to
include my congratulations on a job well done and information that is very relevant to the work that all of us
do. I'd just like to ask that when we are looking particularly at limited English proficiency, that the help
translating our website is on the very bottom of the page. And that link might be better off if it were
prominently displayed when you looked at the top of our page.

Because people who are not speaking English, which the web pages are in, might have a hard time going
through it to find that at the bottom. So just a suggestion as part of this great work. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Director Williams, and also for that suggestion. We really
appreciate that. And I think putting that translation link maybe where it says Tools would be very helpful on
the website. So thank you again. Let's see.
Any other questions, comments? Director Williams, did you want to lower your hand or would you like to
ask another question?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll get it down. Hold on. I got to figure that out on the phone. Lower hand.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty then. I think that's everybody. So are there any no votes on this action?
Seeing none. The motion passes unanimously. There is one discussion item for this evening, and that is
the August 2022 service change proposals. I'd like to ask Mr. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer and
just to Mr. Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of service development to present this item.
Perhaps before I do, General Manager Johnson, did you have anything you'd like to present or add before
that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. Just thank you, Mr. Chair. You're in capable hands with Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you very much. Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you very much. I just want to give an update on the August 2022 service change
proposals. The service change process, though contractually required, is an opportunity for the agency to
update its transit services, utilizing projected available resources. Since April 19, 2022, RTD has operated
a level of service reflective of the impacts of COVID-19.
As the community and country move forward from the various mandates and emergency policies that have
affected commerce and mobility, challenges to workforce availability persist. Like many service related
entities the transit industry has seen workforce availability greatly reduced. Recognizing the agency's
reduced level of availability, transit operators, and mechanics.
Efforts to update service plans continue to focus on providing customers with sustainable and reliable
service within available resources. The service's proposals herein our combination of schedule adjustments
and restoration of seasonal services previously suspended during summer of 2022. Efforts to increase
operator availability through recruitment incentives and increased employee outreach continues, though
current levels do not support substantial increases at service levels at this time.
Additionally, the recently adopted CBA is anticipated to have positive impacts on both employee retention
and recruitment. By way of discussion and regularly implementing service changes to meet customers and
community needs while considering available staff resources, RTD demonstrates its commitment to the
strategic priorities of community value, customer excellence, and employee ownership. Recognizing the

agency's existing workforce challenges, this proposal herein is intended to improve on time performance,
maintain CBA compliance, and adjust service levels to match ridership demands.
By way of the Board adopted guidance, I just would point out again service performance evaluations based
on RTD service standards. The effects of the overall integrity of the transit network on transit dependent
markets. The availability of alternative services to affected customers. Cost effective distribution throughout
the district and family of services. And the ability to enhance services when possible.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act benefits and services are provided without race-- regard to race, color, or
national origin. Also disparate effects on low income and minority populations and responses to challenges
or changes in communities where services are provided. You have a summary of the proposed service
changes for August 2022. There are going to be public hearings June 21 at 12:00 and 5:00 PM and on
June 22 at 5:00 PM as well.
So with that, you do have a summary of these proposed changes. We do have meetings coming up. I would
ask at this time to take questions and to have Jessie Carter join me for any other comments that you might
have.
JESSIE CARTER: [INAUDIBLE] Thank you, Mr. Ford. And if I may, Mr. Chair?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please do. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: I don't want to forgo saying it but I never want to follow a Carl Green presentation again.
That is a tough act to follow for sure. And I look forward to continuing working with him.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry, Mr. Carter, you may not have that choice in the future.
JESSIE CARTER: I would imagine not. I would imagine not. OK, with that, as Mr. Ford has stated, the
service changes for August 2022 are largely focused on putting back the services that we suspended in
May. Those were largely school trippers and services in the Boulder area that are primarily aimed at serving
the CU campus.
So with that, we also have some on time performance work that will result in some small schedule changes
here and there. Although we are hearing that there may be some detours that will be necessary on the
route three. So I look forward to bringing you back more information on what's going on Alameda and a
subsequent meetings as we move towards July. So with that, I'd like to open to any questions.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford and Carter. And why don't we go to Director Tisdale first.
TROT WHITMORE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do have a question relative to commuter rail
service. And I recognize that when talking about the a-line we are principally addressing Denver Transit
operators and their operation of the a-line from Union Station to the airport. But I wondered, given the
frequency of the dropped runs text messages that I receive relative to that line, is there a sense that at least
until the CBA has an opportunity to increase operators-- and I know DTO is not covered by our CBA.

But is there a thought that we should look at the a-line at least on an interim basis and adjust the frequencies
that we are promising? Because I know we still hit high numbers. And it seems like I get messages every
20 minutes. And of course, I exaggerate to illustrate. I realize that we still have a very high percentage of
performance on those.
But I'm just wondering, should we consider working with DTO on adjusting frequency in order to address
that problem? And that is my question, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir. And go on ahead, Mr. Ford and Carter.
MICHAEL FORD: I think there's a lot of things that are going on behind the scenes in terms of what we're
trying to do with the second crew member. Obviously, not having that person armed. We are making some
headway with some recruitment opportunities. I think it's going to take a little bit of time.
But we are trying to be proactive and communicate with our public when we have these issues. And we're
working and meeting with Allied on a weekly basis. I know Chief Martingano been involved in that. And we
meet on a weekly basis to address the cadence of where we're at and what we're trying to do.
So I think it will be a matter of time, but I think we're making some headway. And I don't know about, at this
point, trying to rearrange times and schedules given where we're at. We're all having these challenges
within the system. But I do think we will be making some good headway here very shortly.
JESSIE CARTER: Mr. Chair, if I may?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please do.
JESSIE CARTER: Sorry, Director Tisdale, that is a really good and thoughtful suggestion in looking at the
level of service that we're offering. But one of the things that I would be concerned with is our current
ridership on the University of Colorado a-line is the highest among our commuter rail. It's actually the highest
among any of our rail lines.
And we would have to be very careful about basically chopping the frequency in half and how that would
affect crowding. And I'd like to have an opportunity to take a look at what that would mean from a load
standard basis before we could report back to you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the responses.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And thank you, gentlemen. Any other questions,
comments, thoughts, observations? Director Lewis.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate it. You all always do a very good job-- very thorough job as well.
So don't be too intimidated, Mr. Carter. Just one question about the 42 and the 45. I see that these are to
provide an allocation of respite for operators. And you know I'm always in support of that.
Does that change the headways any for these two routes? Or are they just slight adjustments?

JESSIE CARTER: Mr. Chair, if I may?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Oh, please do.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Actually, yeah. What we're looking at is one side of both of those routes are actually
in neighborhoods. So for our operators to use the restroom, we don't want them knocking on doors. So
instead what we have to do is make sure that they have enough time or ample time at the locations that
are at our facilities. And most notably, that would be Piora station.
So we need to kind of change some times around there. It will not reduce or change the level of frequency
that we're offering on those routes.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. Thank you. That's it.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other Directors would like to comment or have a
question? All righty, seeing none. Thank you very much to Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter for that presentation
and for the service change proposal. Are there any other matters to discuss at this time?
There you go. Director Lewis, go on ahead.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. This is more of a maybe a comment and an opportunity to maybe
come back at a later date for staff. But I've had a few inquiries from constituents regarding e-bites being
able-- e-bikes, excuse me-- being able to lock up their e-bikes at our park and rides and other areas
throughout the district. And so if you all might come back with us regarding a policy.
Because it's my understanding that is behavior that is not approved by RTD. And I am not aware of it at all.
And so we'd love to talk with you all about that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Appreciate that. Did anybody want to respond
to that immediately or just you'll get back to us?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, I just want-KATE WILLIAMS: Johnson has her hand up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director-- sorry General Manager, CEO Debra Johnson, would you like to respond to
that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, actually, I just wanted some clarification. So I think would help us out as staff so
we could adequately respond to your inquiry if we could have more information. So if I could ask just for
some elaboration relative to-- you said the behavior. Are you saying that our policy does not allow for electric
bikes to be-- OK, so I just wanted to clarify so we weren't going in one direction. So thank you.

SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if we could have a short discussion about overtime, about how
much it's currently being used to meet our scheduling and how much of that is mandatory.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Madam General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. And I will yield the floor to Mr. Ford because he probably
has a response. But to Director Broom's point, we could provide that information recognizing that that's a
financial aspect. We will discern-- since it came up in this committee, bring it back forward. But want to be
clear, RTD does not mandate overtime at this juncture.
So I just wanted to qualify that for all. But we will work in tandem with you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Ford will as we
schedule this item. So Mr. Ford, I'll yield the floor to you.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, CEO Johnson. I was just going to probably say the same thing. We can come
back with some more information. But we are currently not mandating anyone at this particular time. So we
will endeavor to give you some of the overtime information that you requested.
BOB BROOM: I'm guessing-- how much overtime do we normally budget for? And are we above or below
that usage would be what I'd be interested in. Because I think that shows whether there's still pressure in
terms of the amount of service that we're providing with the number of employees that we currently have
on hand. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Broom. Would anybody like to comment or just we will follow up?
MICHAEL FORD: I will follow up, as Mr. Johnson alluded.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Thank you very much. Any other Directors? Mr. Broom, did you have any
others or-- your hand is still up.
BOB BROOM: My hand is still up. I need the exercise.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. All righty. Well, in that event, the next meeting is Wednesday, June 15,
2022. The next operations and safety committee meeting will be Wednesday, June 15, 2022. A study
session for re-imagine RTD is also scheduled for that same evening. And with a study session scheduled
to commence first and the committee second.
Seeing no other discussion. Do I have-- Do we usually do a motion to adjourn or just adjourn?
KATE WILLIAMS: So move to adjourn.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Do I hear a second? All those in favor. Aye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aye.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Thank you very much to all the Directors and all the General Manager and your
team. Thank you very much.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Bye, folks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bye now.

