Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Daly, Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Deadwyler, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams
and Walker

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Anderson, Hoy, and James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Skip Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Garrett Christnacht,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Ed
Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Kate Iverson ,Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Pat McLaughlin, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Joni Goheen, Jane Donovan, Julie Skeen, George Gerstle , Claudia
Folska, Jennifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Bill Mosher,
Jacob Riger - DRCOG, Debra Wilcox.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m.

State Legislative Issues
 Update on end of session issues
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that SB 12-044 has passed. There was some
statute language that needed to be adjusted and with the help of Denver judges the
adjustment was made and we were able to get it to sail through.
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that SB 12-045 has passed.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 2
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that HB 12-1136 has died. It took a little longer
than anticipated. Staff provided some good education efforts with the proponents of
the bill and carving out some of the positive things we were doing on the TOD
project which outweighed the negative. The bill eventually died of its own weight.
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update that HB1069 had died in Senate. There were a
lot of behind the scene efforts that took place on this bill and we were able to
influence it not to pass.
Jennifer Brandeberry gave an update on the FasTracks Program audit request stating
that they met in May with the Audit committee and the audit was postponed until
June. Jennifer believes that this will not go away and doesn’t think this is a good
expenditure of state money. However, it has been expressed that the District has
nothing to hide and is willing to share any and all information requested. We will use
this as an opportunity if they decide to go forward. There are a lot of positive things
happening within the District that we do not get credit for but we will continue to
educate the public on RTD and their successes. We encourage the Board and staff to
continue putting out all of the projects and educating the public.
Discussion:
Jennifer Brandeberry indicated they will continue to have the tours as part of an
effort to educate the legislators. Next year she anticipates 1/3 of the legislative
body to change. Director McMullen thanked Jennifer and stated he is very pleased
with the report and all of their efforts. He asked for a list of all the legislators who
will not be returning.
Director Malpiede stated she would like a sheet of talking points to use as she
speaks to constituents and to the public; it would be greatly helpful and appreciated.
Director Williams stated that she has taken some tours of the DUS project along
with Director Hoy and it comes to mind that it may be a good idea to invite some of
our legislators to tour as well. Jennifer stated that they did a regional presentation
trying in their districts to really show how we are helping them and the economic
benefits to their district. Jennifer shared that it is one thing to talk about it but to
physically bring legislators to our property makes a huge impact.
Director Tobiassen commented that with it being election season, this may be a
great time to reach out to the candidates that are running for a position or reelection
and educate them on RTD and asked if that was something they did. Jennifer stated
yes they do outreach and will continue to do so with the new and upcoming
candidates. Director Williams suggested that maybe we could give legislators bus
passes to ride RTD for a week.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Page 3

II.

Local Government Issues
 Kim Kucera of CRL, shared she was in attendance today just to introduce
herself to the Board and that there were no new updates to report. Kim Kucera
has been with CRL for four years.
Chair Kemp expressed his thanks to Kim for all of her work done for RTD.
Director Malpiede shared that she has known and worked with Kim for years
and is happy to see her working with the CRL team for RTD. Director Malpiede
states that Kim is a great asset to the CRL team and looks forward to working
with her more.

III.

Other Matters
Sherry Ellebracht provided information from her trip to Washington last week at
Senator Udall’s Annual conference. Sherry stated that there were brief comments on
the re- authorizations but the 47 member conference committee is still working to
find a compromise between the House and Senate. The re-authorization bill ends on
June 13. We could see a short extension or perhaps a 6-month extension but then
we would be down to a one year re-authorization bill. We could find ourselves in this
same situation again next year trying to come up with transportation funding. A lot
could happen in the next two weeks; it comes down to just how much they are
willing to compromise.
On the Federal budget side, the Senate and the House passed their budget but will
need to pass the joint budget.
Director Tobiassen asked what would be the impact of sequestering if nothing
happens between now and Jan 1st. Sherry shared that it would likely be an across
the board budget cut. It will affect transportation funding as well. The majority of
the sequestration comes from the defense budget. Everything is up in the air right
now and they cannot finish the process until they get an authorization or
continuance.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – July 3, 2012

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:39 p.m.

