Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 15, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
May 15, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle,
Williams, and Walker.
Director Deadwyler participated via phone and Director McMullen had
left.

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp, Directors Cohen, Tayer, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter,
Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Mike Gil, Gary Googins,
Lou Ha, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Robin McIntosh
Jr., Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, R. J.
Rynerson, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Walt
Stringer, Phil Washington, William Weidenaar.

Others Present:
****

Stan Gronek – ATU1001

Call to Order:

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.

I.

Recommended Actions
CFO Terry Howerter asked to defer the vote on the action item, presentation of 2011
RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance, until the
independent auditor from RubinBrown arrived.
 Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit committee that the Board
of Directors adopt the attached 2013 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 2 of 5

Jannette Scarpino briefly went over the changes for 2013 from the 2012 adopted
goals. She shared that in response to the Board’s request the performance measures
as it pertains to prompt response to facility complaints, will be broken down by
elevator, snow, and ice.

Motion:

Director O’Boyle made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the May 22, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion PASSED Unanimously



Resolution No.____, Series of 2012 declaring the intent of the District to use
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement
to reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the
acquisition of buses and other transit equipment.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number__ (the “Reimbursement
Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds from a tax-exempt
obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to reimburse itself for certain
capital expenditures made in connection with the acquisition of buses and other
transit equipment.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the May 22, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Teresa Sedmak shared briefly that
within this process we are taking
precautionary measures.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The Motion PASSED Unanimously
Updates
 First Quarter 2012 Investment Report – Teresa Sedmak briefly went over the
presentation and shared that we did meet all the deadlines. She stated

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 3 of 5

conservatively we are on the positive side at about a 1.4% annualized return.
There were no comments or concerns from the Board.


First Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report – Bill Holmes gave a brief overview of
the Internal Audit Report. Director Anderson commented that she was pleased to
see the Hazardous Waste Controls and Disposal being completed.



2013-2018 Strategic Budget Plan Update – Terry Howerter introduced this item
and stated that the fund balance was not sustainable. Director Anderson asked
how much of a decrease in sale tax was due to the State changes to the vendor
allowance and questioned if we had the capability to our own sale tax. Terry
Howerter responded the impact was approximately $8M. Terry Howerter shared
that due to a decrease in the CU Leeds sales and use tax forecast, this could have
up to a 91.2M negative impact on the SBP projections for the cycle 2012-2018
compared to the SBP prior year projections. Terry indicated they have been
instructed by the General Manager to get rid of the red under the revised
adjustment to balance which they will attempt to do; however the expense
project eliminated/deferred and the capital projects eliminated/deferred will
probably remain outside of the line.
Jannette Scarpino summarized some of the impacts and changes:
The
uncontrollable variables include sales/use tax revenue and fuel price volatility.
The controllable variables include operating/expense projects, capital investment
in projects, fund balance development and service levels. She referenced the
page that listed a number of capital projects that had been deferred or eliminated.
Director Daly questioned the elimination item on the uniform and plainclothes
police officers in Aurora as this was a key item for Director Tobiassen. Jannette
indicated she would take a look at this item since it may need to be more of a
deferred item than an eliminated item.
Director Williams inquired if the same sales tax projections provided by CU Leeds
were used for the FasTracks projections.
CFO Howerter indicated these
projections are included.
CFO Howerter was asked the status from his meeting with the Department of
Revenue. CFO Howerter stated that the Department of Revenue had indicated
they had no objections to RTD pursuing collecting its own tax; however, this is a
legislative issue and the Department of Revenue does not set policy on this
matter.



March 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report – Doug MacLeod indicated that
ridership was down slightly compared to last year. This could be attributed to the
fact there was one workday less in 2012 than in 2011. On ridership YTD we are
at about a 6.6% positive variance, fare revenue at an 11.6% positive variance

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 4 of 5

and sales and use tax at about 8.5% YTD. There is an impact based on the CU
Leeds adjustment to the projections.
III.

Other Matters
None

IV.

Recommended Action (Resumed)
As of 7:45p.m., the independent auditor from RubinBrown had not arrived. The
committee determined they could proceed with the understanding from the CFO of the
recommendations from this audit. The Board requested RubinBrown to be present at the
Board meeting on May 22nd to provide their readout.


Presentation of 2011 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2011 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District’s independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.

Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to forward this item to the full board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter stated that Cheryl
Wallace who was to present the
report could not make it and gave a
brief overview of the report. The
report has nothing unusual, no
problems and no concerns. Terry
Howerter shared that if Cheryl were
here he is certain that she would
say that everything is correct in the
report. Director Williams asked
General Manager Washington if this
report would help with the Audit
request from Representative Swalm.
General Manager Washington stated
yes, he believed this Audit report
would answer some of the
questions that have been asked of
by Representative Swalm. He stated
that any questions that they had

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 5 of 5

could be answered through this or
existing Audits or Annual reports.
Director Bagley asked General
Manager Washington if the Audit
request from Representative Swalm
only pertained to FasTracks. General
Manager Washington responded
yes. Terry Howerter added to
General Manager Washington’s
comments by saying that RTD has
been very transparent and have
posted all the information, annual
reports, and previous audit results
on the FasTracks website.
Vote on
Motion:
IV.
V.

Next Meeting Date – May 22, 2012
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:45 p.m.

The Motion PASSED Unanimously.

