Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, August 1, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:18 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:15 PM
6:22 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:17 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Remote

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:17 PM
6:16 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

6:17 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:17 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Absent
Present
Present

6:17 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:17 PM
6:17 PM

6:17 PM
6:17 PM

Director Folska participated via phone, and Directors Deadwyler and Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Paul DesRocher, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
David Genova, Bob Grado, Ali Imansepahi, Carly Macias, Doug
MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill Sirois, Henry
Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Mark Tieman, Tanzania Trout, Gary
Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Theresa Brandorff, Ian Choudri, Mike Dino,
William Gross, Jessica Hernandez, Aaron Marx, Julie McKenna, David
Sauk, Roger Sherman, John Thompson, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Jeff Whitman

B. Recommended Actions

• Recommendation for Contract Award to HNTB for FasTracks Systems
Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize award of a five-year contract with
an option for a one-year extension with HNTB Corporation in the not-toexceed amount of $22,368,708 for Systems Engineering consulting work.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the Month August 15,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs and Facilities, reminded the Board that RTD has used
FRSC as technical consultants for the last twelve years, and
seeing as FasTracks is going to last for an additional few
years, staff went out and put out a new Request for Proposal
(RFP) for a scope of projects currently underway. He stated
that the funds for this item are for a work order contract for
specific tasks as needed. He noted that staff received one bid
from HNTB, and added that a lot of their subs work for RTD
under different contracts. He remarked that their proposal and
processes were reasonable, and staff is requesting to use
HNTB and their subs for five years, with a one year add on to
support RTD and the Base system. He stated that all of the
funding is tied to other projects and this is just a mechanism

to have the extension of staff as there is a need for the North
Metro Line and the South East Extension (SERE).
Director Menten said that it was concerning that there was
only one response to the RFP. She then asked why this was
in front of the Board as the Board approved a contract
extension with FRSC and Triunity Hill a few months ago.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that this action item was for
HNTB. He noted that the item for FRSC was for a one-year
add-on, which included a continuation of key staff. He added
that the continuation did not award FRSC more work, but
provided the ability to continue legacy projects.
Director Tisdale said that it would be helpful if the record
clearly articulated who RTD had, how long the agency had
them, and why RTD is not going to have them anymore. He
said that most cities have a process that every three to five
years they will re-bid positions to keep everyone focused on
their job, and some of that explanation could be added to the
board report for further consideration. He added that, since
there was only one bid, that was a bit worrisome, and asked if
there was a particular reason as to why RTD only received one
response.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that the list of subs includes the same
entities that RTD has already been using. He said that there
are not a lot of guarantees moving forward, and with the
market and RTD’s current financial constraints, he did not
know what additional problems RTD might have. He remarked
that staff’s evaluation was harder on HNTB since they were
the only bid to ensure it was the right decision.
Mr. Stopplecamp asked if the Board would need more
information added to the Board Report or if everyone was
satisfied with this explanation.
Director Tisdale commented that he was satisfied, and Mr.
Stopplecamp gave him the exact information he was looking
for.
Committee Chair Lubow inquired about the not-to-exceed
amount referenced in the Board Report and how that worked
in relation to the budget.

Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that this is a work order contract.
He explained that, if a project is approved, this would provide
the funding source. He noted that staff would still identify the
scope of work, set a project budget, and then create a work
order. He added that this would only be applied to Board
approved projects throughout the district.
Director Folska stated that she would be voting in favor of this
item.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska, Chuck Sisk
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• 2015 Quality of Life Report
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated that Lacy Bell,
Corridor Planning Manager, and Paul DesRocher, Planning Coordination
Manager, would be presenting the Quality of Life Report to the Board.
Ms. Bell said that the Quality of Life (QoL) study was set up to track how
the FasTracks program was meeting the three core goals outlined in the
2004 Board Adopted FasTracks plan. She stated that the intent was a
quantitative approach to see how the program was meeting those defined
goals. She stated that the three core goals were: balance transit needs with
regional growth, increase transit mode share, and improve transportation
choices and options. She commented that, at the time FasTracks was
passed, the Board and General Manager thought it would be beneficial to
track the progress of the program, and its achievement of the outlined goals.
She noted that staff tracked 60 to 70 available data measures to track
progress and commented that some of the measures are regional, at the
corridor level, and some are stationary. She added that the way staff had
set up the report is that a full measure report will be done every three to five
years and a high level, 12-metric report, will be created annually. She stated
that this report is the first time staff has provided a full report since a
FasTracks project has been opened, and this report is for 2015. In addition,
staff has also produced a video to demonstrate to RTD’s stakeholders what
staff has learned.

Mr. DesRocher stated that he would discuss the infographic and noted that
it had a similar format to the Downtown Denver Partnership’s (DDP) annual
commuter survey. He said that the first page was a 2015 retrospective
progress map and explained that it takes staff a year to collect the data and
another year to analyze it. He commented that the study examined 70
different measures that fit into the three primary goals, and in 2015 there
were three projects that were online, the W Line, Denver Union Station, and
the Free Metro Ride. He stated that over a five-year period from 20102015, staff observed 7,600 new passengers per day into the W Line
corridor. He added that Denver Union Station had significant development
around the area which included 2,700 multi-family units, 130 new hotel
rooms, and hundreds of thousands of new square footage in development.
Also, the Free Metro Ride was opened in conjunction with Denver Union
Station and staff saw great boarding numbers with that service as well.
Mr. DesRocher said that in reviewing the first goal in 2015, there was:
 10% population growth
 17% job growth
 230% increase in housing starts
 24% increase in areas served by high frequency transit
 22% more rapid transit infrastructure
 6% increase in Access-a-Ride service
 3% increase in transit service
He said that for goal two, the numbers were as follows:
 12% increase in daily vehicle miles driven in the region
 84 more miles driven per person each year
 2% increase in vehicle ownership
 13 days that exceeded the air quality standard
 15% increase in vehicle emissions
 3x more likely to die travelling in a car than on a bus
 27% more expensive for regional commuters to drive vs using public
transit
He noted that goal three had the following data points:
 Auto commute travel times got longer and less predictable
 8 minutes per day average additional time people sat in their cars
 14% increase in time spent in congestion each day
 24% of roadways experienced congestion for longer than 3 hours
each weekday
He commented that staff is continuing to make this data more accessible but
said that there is still quite a bit of lag between getting this data out to the
public. He noted that staff wants to put this information online so that it is
electronically accessible, and also staff wants to adjust the data points so

that the report is more flexible and can be reported on much faster. He said
that staff will be pursuing those changes for the 2016 report.
Director Williams said that while this report is really great, it is 2017 and this
is totally passé. She noted that the report should have a disclaimer on the
front to apologize for the two-year delay. She added that unfortunately this
is an era in which everyone can get immediate information and this report
for 2015 is almost embarrassing. She recognized that data collection takes
time, but it should also have a disclaimer.
Director Menten said that the 7,600 transit riders each weekday seemed
really high and almost impossible.
Ms. Bell said that staff reviewed bus ridership in the corridor before the W
Line opened and then examined ridership on the bus routes in conjunction
with the 12,000 riders each day on the W Line, and that equated to 7,600.
Director Menten commented that the routes that were coming out of the
Federal Center were eliminated and shuffled over, and those riders would
not have been new. She added that she would like to see the background
data for those numbers.
Director Francone stated that the infographic was beautiful and the video
was also very interesting. She asked about the information presented in the
info graph and what data sources were used to compile the report.
Ms. Bell explained that staff used several different data sources such as the
census, in-house work, and information from Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG).
Director Francone added that she did not understand the 5% increase in
annual boardings and the 4% decrease in boardings per capita.
Mr. DesRocher explained that the 5% increase in annual boardings was the
total number of annual boardings from 2010-2015.
Ms. Bell added that the boardings per capita actually decreased because
transit ridership had not kept pace with regional growth.
Director Francone asked how, if people have more access to public transit,
that translated into RTD’s interest in creating ridership.
Mr. DesRocher stated that staff has a detailed report that explains each data
point and that document might help with a lot of questions the Board may
have.

Director Walker remarked that this is a quick snapshot of what has
happened, and for those that want to look deeper, there are resources
available. He added that Chicago has a post rider survey and inquired if RTD
did something similar.
Mr. Van Meter stated that RTD had not done one recently.
Director Walker commented that in a post rider survey, 30% listed safety as
the main reason as to why they stopped riding. He added that when he was
in Vancouver, he felt extremely safe and that city is the same size as
Denver, though Vancouver only had 12 homicides and 15 traffic fatalities in
2016.
Director Walker added that there was a big announcement yesterday that
two large engineering firms would be consolidating. He asked what affect
that would have on RTD’s capital projects.
Mr. Van Meter explained that there was enough competition and capacity
that it would have a minimal impact to RTD. He added that overall, it would
create good competition and capacity to deliver on projects in the region.
Director Tisdale commented that this should actually be labeled as the 2017
report, which provides the latest information available, for 2010-2015. He
said that the since the infographic and video are accessible, the full report
should be, too.
Ms. Bell said that, when the report is finalized, it will be online as well.
Director Broom inquired as to who was the intended recipient for the report.
He asked whether it was for the tax payer or for a transplant into the metro
area.
Mr. Van Meter said that a broad range of audiences have expressed interest
in the report, including a number of stakeholders, chambers of commerce,
transportation professionals, economic development professionals and local
staff. He added that this has been presented nationally at APTA, and a lot
of agencies are interested in how RTD tracked the metrics and which
metrics were used.
Director Broom agreed with Director Tisdale and said that the report should
be renamed to the 2017 report.
Director Folska inquired if staff had considered distributing this to the state
legislature.

Mr. Van Meter noted that it was not something he had considered but said
that it would be a good idea.
Committee Chair Lubow said that in her opinion, RTD is not doing very well.
She said that RTD has spent a lot of money but at best, the agency is just
running in place. She said that there is a problem here and not talking about
it is not the best way to handle things.
Mr. Van Meter explained that staff endeavored to present both the good and
the bad. He said that the report is data driven with facts and there are some
continuing challenges. He noted that staff is aware of the ridership plateau
and it shows in the numbers metric.
Director Anderson remarked that this report shows that metro Denver is
growing and people are driving cars more. She added that what this report
does not show is where metro Denver is growing, which is Windsor, Fort
Collins, Firestone, Castle Rock, Douglas County, etc. She said that metro
Denver is growing in all of the wrong places, but the population growth has
kept up with DRCOG’s projections.
Director Williams added that she would like this report more if it said 2017
instead of 2015 and further added that there should be a question on the
back asking how RTD did with an option for people to complete a survey or
provide feedback.

D. Other Matters
Chair Hoy said that in the recent past Committee Chair Lubow had discussed a
resolution that she would like the Board to entertain regarding FasTracks. He said
that he would like to see as staff and the Board go through the Annual Program
Evaluation (APE) process to see if there is a best way to move forward. He
suggested that the Board wait for the APE and after that time he would consider
creating an ad hoc committee to discuss the matter and come up with an
appropriate resolution, or not, depending on the circumstances.
Committee Chair Lubow commented that she and Director Tisdale had an
appointment to review the wording of the resolution to make it more inclusive and
more viable. She added that this was a parallel track and will be continuing.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 5, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:17 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

