2022-10-11
Finance and Planning Committee (2)
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. We're going to go ahead and get started. So hopefully everybody is back.
Thanks for taking the break, I know this we're getting close here.
So I see cameras coming back on, that's good. Thanks, everybody. All right. So we're going to go to our
final discussion item, which is the 2023 proposed budget. So I'm going to go ahead and ask Mr. Doug
MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of Budget, to please present
the discussion item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I have a presentation that I'll go through, and Todd will help
me field questions, but I would like to point out that in the Board package, the committee package, in
addition to this presentation, there is a more detailed budget document which provides additional color
that I won't go through every point within there, and some additional tables and charts, but I intend to hit
mainly on the highlights since this is a discussion item.
So I will share my screen. OK. So this is the 2023 proposed budget. We bring the budget forward for
Board consideration in the fall of each year.
Typically in the past we've done an amended budget. I think probably the Board has recognized that we
haven't brought as many budget transfers over the past year or two, and we've really tried to cut down on
that.
And General Manager Johnson's direction is really we want to try to budget much more accurately to
avoid possibly even an amended budget, but also budget transfers, so we feel that we're in a good place
with this budget. At this point, we do have some further adjustments before bringing an action item to the
Board in November.
So the timing of this budget generally for this period is really to bring this as a discussion item to this
Finance Committee, then bring it to the Board later this month as a discussion item. Then we would come
back to the Finance Committee on November 1 with a proposed budget that would lay out what staff is
requesting as basically a final budget going into 2023 seeking the Board approval.
That intervening period is really intended for two purposes. One is statutory requirements require that
governmental agencies post their budget for public inspection by October 15 of each year. So as a result
of that, we will be posting this draft budget in the Board Office.
We will also provide a banner on the RTB website with a link to that these budget documents, and it will
also be-- a notice will go out in two daily papers, The Denver Post and the Boulder Daily Camera. So
we're trying to make it available as possible to the public to receive any feedback from not only the Board,
but also our constituents.

So in developing the budget, we went through basically the same process that we've gone through in past
years, however, it's been a little bit more detailed. Timelines, we always go through a period of where it's
always last-minute making certain decisions, but it was a very collaborative effort.
We start the budget preparation at the AGM and department levels and chief levels. They develop their
budgets. Then we bring it all together, put all this information together within our software and have
meetings with General Manager Johnson go through those.
So that's pretty much the budget development process. There's a lot of discussion, a lot of changes that
go on throughout that process. And one of the big intentions-- and when we set targets for the
departments when they start developing their budgets is really the target from a financial perspective the
MTF, the Midterm Financial Plan.
So back in September, the Board approved the 2023 through 2028 Midterm Financial Plan that pretty
much set the expenditure targets based on our outlook for the next six years of what was deemed to be
affordable. Of course, there's many other aspects that go into a budget development, funding being just
one of them, but that's our starting point.
So we use the Midterm Financial Plan operating expenditures, capital expenditures, and state of good
repair expenditures as the target to put these numbers together.
I would like to point out, too, that we've been working towards alignment with our strategic plan with a
focus on a system optimization plan, People Power, and our fiscal policy. So as we develop this budget,
it's really critical that we look at our strategic priorities and align the budget funding-- I think in past years,
especially when we had budgetary constraints, it was flipped the other way to where we basically put
together our plan based on our budgetary constraints.
That's really the wrong way to go about that. We really want to align our budget with our strategic
direction, and there's been several discussions this evening about scalability, and that's the intent, is that
we would scale things accordingly and prioritize certain initiatives.
Some of the assumptions that I think are important for the budget-- many years that are important, but
this year in particular, there are certain items that are different than other years. Ridership and fare
alignment to trend. So now that we've somewhat emerged from COVID and seen more of a steady trend
in terms of our ridership, we recognize that in 2022, we had budgeted additional ridership that didn't
actually return.
Part of that-- the biggest part of that was not knowing when we put together the budget in late 2021. Still a
lot of volatility in our ridership, a lot of uncertainty. Some employers were just returning-- requiring return
to work, schools still had some outstanding issues in terms of remote work versus site. So there was a lot
of uncertainty.
We have a better idea of pretty much our trends at this point in time. We've also looked at several reports.
Standard & Poor's put out another report and mentioned that their previous report about a year ago said
that they expected transit, public transit to recover eventually to an 85% of pre-COVID level in terms of
ridership.
They've redone that estimation and now they're saying 70-- up to 70% over the next several years. So still
a lot of uncertainty there, and they've backed off a little bit on their projections.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Hey Doug, sorry to interrupt you. I see Director Catlin's hand's up, but I think I know
what it might be. The slides aren't changing. I just noticed this as I'm following along in our packet here,
but we're still on slide 2. There we go.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Sorry, I've actually got it on two screens, so thank you for pointing that
out.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, no problem. Thanks, Director Catlin.
DOUG MACLEOD: So I'm on the third bullet here, really talking about our alignment-- sorry, I'm on the
wrong page still. On the fourth slide, I'm talking about ridership and fare alignment trends. So we've really
tried to align our ridership and fares accordingly.
You may remember the discussion that we had in the Midterm Financial Plan, that longer term, we're
actually talking about bringing down our average fare provider just based on certain assumptions and to
be conservative with the Midterm Financial Plan or the fare study and equity analysis direction that we've
gotten from public feedback.
However, within 2023, we haven't adjusted the actual average fare per rider. We've just adjusted the
ridership back to what our trend is so. What you'll see when we get to the cash flow statement on the last
slide is that there will be some decrease in fare revenue.
Sales and use taxes are largest source of revenue. We're using the CU Leeds forecast that was reviewed
with the Board during September. That does reflect an increase of approximately 22 million over the
March forecast for the year of 2023. So we are expecting an increase. Still, I'll talk a little bit more about
some of the challenges we may face, which is touched upon in the next bullet, higher inflation and supply
chain constraints.
So we've been experiencing supply chain constraints for well over a year now, and it appears that some
of those problems, depending on what type of product you're looking at, is more exacerbated at this point
in time, and very uncertain as far as feature goes.
So a lot of our discussions have been around projects, and as we determine which projects fit within the
strategic priorities, what's the timing for that? What's the lead time? We have People Power issues, of
course, but also the actual products that are necessary to make those projects happen. So there's a lot of
uncertainty there with higher inflation, supply chain constraints.
Asset management, we think we've got a fairly good hold on that in terms of what the needs are. That
was reflected in the Midterm Financial Plan as well. On average, we anticipate expending approximately
$120 million per year. That will go up and down because of the different sizes of the projects and the
timing of the needs.
And what we're doing is when we have additional cash flow, we put that into a capital replacement fund,
set it aside until those big needs are met. An example would be in 2029, it's projected that we will have a
large expenditure for rail replacements.
So we'll build up that capital replacement fund over the next several years and then spend it down as we
replace vehicles or some of these other large expenditure needs. So we're trying to manage cash flows to
those peaks and valleys that we experience.

We also, along with the Midterm Financial Plan, we have substantial reserves as you may recall. Nothing- I wouldn't put it as excess reserves, but we have enough reserves that we can provide a catch-up on our
asset management. Backlog has decreased significantly and we do feel we're in a pretty good place. Our
bigger constraints aren't financial at this point. They're more based on People Power and availability of
contractors.
So we feel we're in a fairly good place with our reserves. And especially with some of the economic
discussions that have occurred. A lot of talk out there about a recession. Some would claim that we're
already in a recession to have two consecutive corridors of negative growth, and potentially it could last
through the end of next year.
So reserves, in the past, we have kept those very, very small, basically spending-- most everything we
had available just try to get caught up-- caught up on asset management as well as provide service.
We've been able to build up those reserves through COVID. I think we're in a pretty good place.
Obviously it would be a shame if we had to spend that money on something it wasn't intended for, such
as a drop in our sales and use tax brought on by a recession, but it does provide us that stability that we
don't need to necessarily in the short-term go looking for substantial cuts in our expenditures.
Some of the considerations we already talked a little bit about flexing the strategic priorities and being
able to be scalable with certain expenditures. And so we do have that ability within this budget, we
believe, too. So I will get to a discussion here on the cash flows, and we'll focus in on some of the areas
that we have, potentially some areas to move, but we also have reserves.
So what we've seen to put that in context, what we've seen in the last couple of years and prior, we've
actually been underbudget on our expenditures. Most notably in the operating expenses. There's a variety
of reasons for that. One being that we-- according to statutory requirements in order to move forward with
a procurement, we have to have the funding available for the full procurement in place in order to issue a
purchase requisition.
So that's one constraint that prevents us from being dead-on to our budget, which would be next to
impossible anyway. However, we do have some amounts in our budget that we've come under budget
typically around 70 to $80 million per year.
And so one of our strategic metrics is to actually bring that variance down so we can budget a little more
accurately, and that will be reflected in our Midterm Financial Plan. There's a little more certainty as to
what funding is really available and not have that excess standing out there.
I think that will help accomplish a lot in terms of focusing our efforts on what we're really going to execute
on and not have additional funding there and still retain that ability to come back to the Board when
unplanned items come up or there's additional needs that need to be considered.
Economic volatility still a big concern. A lot going on obviously with inflation, supply chain issues. I'd also
throw in that category, the employment rate and the labor market particularly here in the Denver Metro
Area. We all know there's significant constraints. We've been experiencing that, particularly in certain
areas with operators and mechanics for many, many years, but it's just been exacerbated under the
current situation, and it's extended throughout our entire workforce.
There were discussions earlier about having the People Power to do new initiatives. We have many
individuals that are wearing more than one hat as was mentioned, and we have a lot of vacancies. But I

would point out that we have budgeted to fill those vacancies. So the funding is available, the intent is
there. It's just actually making that happen.
Strong financial position gives us that flexibility to be agile, to be scalable. I think in the past, in my
perspective, I think when we did have good years, we maybe got a little ahead of ourselves in terms of
spending money without a big focus on longer-term sustainability.
I think we're in a much better place now where we're really focused on sustainability, a strategic plan,
maintaining the assets that we do have, and keeping those reserves in the position that they're available
when we need to use them, which will help avoid things like financing purchases of vehicles which cost us
more money because of the interest factor. We plan to cash fund all these large cash expenditures, and
based on our projections, we believe that's doable.
Additional budget modifications remain. So with this draft budget, there were ongoing discussions some
outstanding items. We're still making a few small adjustments, getting things all in the right buckets for
Board approval. Nothing substantial there, and again, with an eye towards our Midterm Financial Plan
target staying within that range that the Board approved.
So to sum it all up, what you'll see is we have $783.2 million in operating expenses. We'll have a
comparison later that shows how that compares to 2022. $26.8 million in new capital, which is a total of
$810 million.
One of the items that we will bring that's not in this budget is a carry-forward-- reconciliation-- to carry
forward on the expense side is essentially projects that were started-- or not started, that were budgeted
in this year, and we don't need to budget for them again next year in 2023, we actually just take that
budget appropriation that's the Board to go ahead and reappropriate that. But we also reconcile it and
make sure that unneeded funds or projects that are no longer necessary that were budgeted for 2022 are
not carried forward.
This graph, we wanted to throw this in here just show where we've been versus what we anticipate for
2023. So the blue portions of those bars represent the COVID relief grant funding. So somewhere around
$780 million-- I think there's 783 million in total-- really, really helped us out during 2020 through 2022.
We've drawn those funds down. I know that in the mid-term financial plan we indicated that we anticipate
drawing those down over an extended period of time, but we do anticipate drawing the majority virtually
all of that money down into-- by the end of this year, which is great at this point in time because of with
interest rates being higher, in our short durations, we're not really affected a whole lot by movements in
interest rates, but it does give us the opportunity to actually get some yield on our investments.
We anticipate going from basically zero dollars in investment income up to $20 million-plus, maybe a little
higher in 2023. So actually good timing to pull that money in quickly, get it invested, and start yielding
some money-- some returns for our needs-- RTD's needs.
Moving on to a pie chart showing our expenditures, this is really just a breakdown by category. And the
intent of this graphic is really to impress upon everybody that salaries and benefits still make out the
majority of our costs. We have budgeted, as I mentioned for vacancies. We have budgeted for positions
both on the represented side and the non-represented side particularly make sure that we meet our
standard-- our System Optimization Plan.

It includes funding for all of our frontline workers as well as the support staff, a very large expenditure
there. Purchase transportation, a large majority of that also goes to pay contractors employees as well.
That makes up 27% of the budget. Those are the two largest slices of the pie.
We do have-- here at RTD we do have a tendency to-- contract a lot of our services. So in the services
pie slice, the orange slice there, 15% actually goes-- we found that it's actually much more efficient for us,
both on a financial basis and a performance basis, to contract many of our services where we may not
have that expertise in-house.
So rather than hiring somebody full-time for a project, we'll contract that service out, or try to go out and
get specific expertise that we really need for, say, an IT project. So it's a very large expenditure, but that,
too, is scalable depending on what the needs are of the organization in alignment with our strategic plan.
So here is a pictorial of a comparison showing our current budget for this year versus what is in this
requested budget at this point. As I mentioned, we'll have some adjustments to the total operating
expenses on line 14 and bring that down closer to the 750, $760 million range in alignment with our
Midterm Financial Plan.
Those are all-- nothing's necessarily being cut, it's just when we put these requests together, there are
certain items that we discuss and as you add those up and determine-- we're probably not going to be
able to execute on some of those initiatives or some of those expenditures just because of our People
Power problem, et cetera, and we really want to bring down that budget variance in 2023 to what we can
actually deliver on.
So with that in mind, you can see-- I'll just go through a few of these items on line 1, which is indicated in
the blue on the left. Line 1 fares, we-- by bringing those down more to what our trend is, we anticipate
collecting more in the range of $89.5 million as opposed to the budget of $98 million this current year.
Fares only make up 8% to 10% of our operating expenses. So it's not a significant amount anymore still,
a good chunk of money that we won't want to lose all those fares and we'd have to make adjustments to
our expenses. However, we do want to reflect what we think reality is.
Sales and use taxes, our largest revenue source, is right in line with what CU Leeds provided to us for the
medium-- median. Not the optimistic or the pessimistic, the median forecast.
And then line 3, I'd point out that the grant revenue-- so what was reflected in there is really our operating
grants, as well as some miscellaneous smaller income, but the primary number there of $157.7 million is
our preventive maintenance grants. That's all based on our NTD funding-- or our NTD reporting, and that
funding comes from the Federal Transit Administration through Section 5307 Preventive Maintenance
Grants.
In past years-- well, the most recent year that was approximately $92 million in 2022. With the IIJA and
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, those two combined were one initiative which increased funding, a
portion of that was for transit. The biggest piece that RTD qualifies for in that apportionment is an
approximate $30 million increase in our preventive maintenance grants, which is substantial. It's almost-it's close to a 30% increase in our annual apportionment.
So that's super, super helpful, especially with the one-time funding going away. The BIL, the bill, put that
in place, $30 million-- approximately $30 million additional in 2023, that stays there and increases by an
inflationary factor all the way through 2026. So that's recurring funding. All indications are is that will not

be taken away when 2026 comes and goes, that it would cause too much pain, probably, for the transit
agencies. So at least we've projected that that funding level would continue. So significant help on that
end.
Moving into expenses, row 6, just a few items that's detailed out in the budget document, but a couple of
things I'd like to point out. Is the reason for that increase is partially due to the collective bargaining
agreement that was put in place. I think the Board is well aware of the provisions within that and the
changes that took place. We have budgeted for that.
We also have additional monies in there mainly on the benefit side, and what we've tried to do under
General Manager Johnson's leadership is really, there was an employee survey put out for benefits on
the non-represents.
I got a lot of feedback, we've made some adjustments, made it a much more appealing, offering, in terms
of the health and welfare benefits, not a substantial increase, but something that is really in line with our
desires in agency, along with the CBA, to improve the appeal to employees, as well as working
conditions, and just the general overall employee environment.
We do have a decrease in materials and supplies. I would point out within that category, that does include
fuel. So within that category, you don't see it, but there is an increase included in there for fuel. We've
locked in our diesel fuel, which is our-- we use approximately $7 million-- 7 million gallons per year.
Locked that in at a price of 3.20 per gallon. In 2022 that was 2.30 per gallon. So a 90 increase, which we
all feel is relatively good, gives us budget certainty with all the volatility in the fuel markets, and not a
significant increase in terms of the overall budget.
That is offset by decreases due to supply chain issues, as well as some of our parts needs, et cetera.
We're really going through putting a focus on our inventory that we have, really ratcheting things down
and really taking a look through an asset information maturity program to really look at what the needs
are so that we don't overbuy, that we don't-- not that we have been, necessarily, but we don't overbuy, we
don't maybe do preventive maintenance earlier than necessary. So we've really tried to tighten that up.
I would point out outside services. You'll see a large decrease there. And a portion of that is shifting up
into row 6, salaries and benefits. What's happening generally is the security contract that we have to
provide security services, the intent going into 2023 is to reduce security services-- some of that is based
on People Power from them, too, and we're experiencing actually lower costs than was budgeted in 2022.
But we will shift that cost from security-- contract and security services up to actually having RTDemployed police officers. So it's really kind of an offset, but it's a noticeable change in those two line
items.
Purchased transportation, row 13, just wanted to point out that that increase there reflects the
amendments. We had planned for this. We knew there would be some increases coming as a result of
the CBA increases. So what drove that, really, is we had significant increases in our wages.
Our contractors on fixed route need to be competitive for their employees as well, so they need to be
somewhat in line with what we're offering in the marketplace, so those reflect those increases, a $6.9
million increase.

Finally, the last item I'd like to point out here is on row 15, debt service. So you see that $9 million
decrease, that's due to the most recent refinancing. So we're actually recognizing those savings. And so
that's all money that we're not going to spend next year and beyond. And it does scale up and down,
depending on the year, 9 to $12 million additional savings. And that was reflected in the Midterm
Financial Plan.
I said that was the last item, but what I'd like to say is on row 19, it shows a negative cash flow of 113
million. So we talk a lot about a balanced budget. Revenue should equal expenses. But the other part of
that equation is reserves or money that we already have.
Some of that expenditure, that negative costs, all that negative costs really covered by funding that we
have from previous years, that will be carried forward to cover that. It's just not reflected here because we
don't show it as revenue. Next year we show it-- it's really in our bank. And so that will pay for that.
So essentially, we're comfortable with where we are with this budget. It really is a balanced budget when
you take our savings or our reserves into account. And so I think I'll leave off that, Mr. Chair, and be
happy to take any questions. What I would offer up, too, is that Finance, myself, my staff, the whole team
is available to answer any questions. We'd love the opportunity, if you want to see more detail to go
through it in more detail.
We also offer that up to the public. Want to be transparent and share the information. We love talking
about finance, so if anybody were to have questions after this or want to go into more detail, we'd be
happy to sit down with you or take the time to go through it. So that concludes my comments, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Really appreciate it. And thank you for highlighting all of the
changes and differences from last year. Also, thank you for the comment early on about budgeting and
how we've historically-- what do we have available and how do we divvy it as opposed to what are we
trying to accomplish and how do we budget for that. Appreciate that comment, it's an important and
significant change.
Also, thank you for the stability that you and your team are bringing here. This has been a really hard
couple of years, and the way that the shape that we were in going into COVID was-- took us to the edge.
So I we, as you said, we're fortunate for the relief funding, but in addition to being fortunate, to having that
as well-managed, that we're coming out in a stronger position than we started.
So thank you very much for taking the time to go through this in detail, for sending this out, and most
importantly, for the stability that you've been leading us towards. So I'll go ahead and open the floor to
questions and comments from Directors. Dr. Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Thanks, Doug, for all the work that went into this. Really, it shows.
Your presentation was an excellent one. Chief Fitzgerald, in meeting with people, is talking about ramping
up his workforce considerably with post-certified officers. Does the budget reflect that? And how many
officers are we talking about there?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, thank you for the question. I'd like to also mention, it's the team-- the Finance
team putting the budget together, and they've done a ton of work, so I really want to give a shout-out to
them, so thank you for that. And yes, that is Chief's-- the Chief of Police's intention, Chief Fitzgerald. He
does have included in there 40 new positions for officers offset by a decrease in the contracted services.

Part of the certification process and alignment with the direction that we're taking in terms of our security
also involves not just the wages and benefits, also requiring space planning, equipment planning, all
those items are really considered in this budget as well. So there's a lot that goes into it. There's vehicles.
A lot that goes into-- the Chief is really considered and he's putting together a very detailed plan on that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then for salaries and benefits for non-represented employees, does that 10%
reflect in part a COLA that we have given or are planning to give?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. And what we typically do in our budgets until a decision has been made on items
like that, as well as other items, parts, et cetera, as we put an inflationary factor in there, so no decision
has been made. So we put a placeholder in there of an inflation rate of 3% on those wages.
So that's yet to be determined what that actually looks like. And in past years, that, too, is scalable
depending on the needs. Obviously we have a lot of external pressures in terms of market
competitiveness, et cetera. So I think that'll be a big larger discussion with General Manager Johnson, the
direction that we take with that.
But we do have a relatively small placeholder in here. What I would offer up, too, is the non-represented
employees make up approximately a third of the RTD's employee staff. So those increases are relatively
small. So whether it's 3%, 1%, 5%, it's something that we can absorb.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then just one last-- I happen to have, for some reason, an asset management
plan that was prepared, according to the footnote, on February 28, 2020. Well, right on the edge of the
precipice, we-- so what it showed was for 2023, it showed asset maintenance of-- your capital asset
requirements of only-- I can't even see if these are-- they're not thousands. It looks like it's a mere 3
million.
Whereas in 2021, we had 98 million. 2022, we had 39 million. What happened? I mean, how different did
our actual expenditures-- how different were they? And is the difference between what you're showing on
that chart of capital asset-- in the asset maintenance plan, is that restoring-- I mean, I'm trying to get a
sense for what we have done and how fully we've funded it. You said we'd fully funded it.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, and that's a very important point of this-- the whole financial projections, is our
capital maintenance needs, asset management needs. There's really two main factors that affected that.
Since 2020, you may recall when the Board approved the Midterm Financial Plan at one point. The Board
only went to approve two years because there was so much uncertainty.
That Midterm Financial Plan that was presented only showed that we had enough funding to provide for
70% of the projects-- or 70% of the capital maintenance needs that were needed, asset management.
What's changed is two things, essentially.
Number one, we've gotten additional clarity on those capital needs as we've continued to refine things. So
I would put that in context by saying we had a lot of large projects that were just nearing or had just
finished completion, large infrastructure projects.
We've gotten additional clarity in terms of the components that make that up. So when we put together
the asset management plan-- I'll use a simple example, the steel rails deteriorated a different rate than
the concrete and the ballast that's within that entire project.

So as we really tried to nail that down and get a little bit more information, in addition to our actual
experience with maintaining those, that all goes into the calculation of, when do we need the money, how
much do we need, and where do we need it? It's a very complicated process, as you can imagine, with $8
billion in assets. So we've got an additional clarity on there.
We've made some progress on clearing some of the backlog. And I would say COVID has been-- to a
certain extent, it's been relatively good from a financial perspective by resetting our expectations in terms
of expenditures, service levels, and operating costs. Some of the asset management needs have been
revised to say, as we align with the strategic plan, there are certain things that have fallen out and aren't
necessarily as important.
So we'll continue to get additional clarity moving forward and also aligning things more so with the
strategic plan. So I will-- I do anticipate there will be additional changes going forward. It could be by year,
it could be by amount. But yeah, it was a big nut that was out there that we really need to address at that
time, and it's come down quite a bit just based on that clarity as well as some of the needs going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks so much. That's all I have, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook, thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Other questions from
Directors, other discussion items? Yes, Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: I'm just going to jump on other matters, though. Hold still.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, OK. All right. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Doug, I apologize if I missed this during your presentation, but-- and maybe this
is a more fiscal policy question, but as we look at the possibility of debruising, and we're in a position this
year where we may be able to make a bigger contribution to reserves in the event that we don't debruise,
how are we-I know it was in the Midterm Financial Plan, but as I look at the increase from 3 to 3.4 months of reserves,
it doesn't quite seem to cover the amount of loss that we would experience as early as '24 or '25. Can you
help me understand maybe why we're not putting more in reserves to prepare for that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, that's a great question, and we did have some initial discussions. There was an
ad hoc committee set up to look at the TABOR issue. We tabled that until January. And we'll take-- pick
that back up, collect a lot of good information.
In terms of the reserves and its application to the impact from revenue limitations under TABOR, one of
the challenges that we have is because of that ratchet-down effect, it basically resets-- if we go through a
session afterward, we're no longer debruised. We go through a session and it drops our sales and use tax
level.
That's a new basis, as you know, for calculating increases beyond that based on property tax increases
and inflation within the Metro district. So we'd be limited to that growth. So if we saved up reserves, it
could get us-- it could get us over that hump of the drop, but it doesn't solve the problem of not getting
back up to what the actual growth rate is. So say it's 10%.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.

DOUG MACLEOD: So I think probably what we've talked about a little bit through that ad hoc process is
maybe more of a long-term solution. And one of the things that was kicked around-- there are many
suggestions potentially kicked around, none of them great, but some options.
But one of the things that we talked about particularly with this looming recession and inflation that has
the potential to bring down our sales and use taxes to a lower level right at the worst time because the
TABOR impact will be based on 2024 sales and use tax collections and take effect in 2025.
So it may ratchet us down right before we get limited on our revenue. So one potential option we have is
refinancing just one of the bonds and extending that to 2026 so we can get that-- the recovery potentially
coming out of a recession, get back up to a higher level, and start at least at that basis.
So those are the things we're looking at. I think the reserve issue fixes the drop, it doesn't necessarily
address the ongoing challenge of limited growth.
BOBBY DISHELL: It's a bad day definitely. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. It's a good question. Bad timing. Again, thank you for the
stability going into that, the Finance team. Other questions for Mr. MacLeod or his team? I had one-- I
guess just two more, one's more a point to make.
But Doug, there probably was not really time given the prior discussion that we had about partnerships,
one of the things that's on my mind about how that scales if we start talking about percentage of budget,
for example, is the indirect cost rate, and understanding-- I mean, here, we're talking about needing to
hire for that position and get an idea of what all the costs, direct and indirect, would be of administering
additional grants and additional partnership.
Just curious, did the team get a chance to get into any of that at all? I know it's a fairly new program, but
any discussion around the partnership program and modeling that into the budget? Or is it just kind of a
simple estimate at this point given the newness of it?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, thank you for the question, Mr. Chair. And yeah, it was a very simple
discussion at this point to have a placeholder in there of $2 million based on the 4 or $500,000 projects.
And I'm glad you brought that up, because I think it applies to many of our expenses, that it goes back to
this discussion about being agile with our budgets.
That while the Board appropriates the money, it's locked down and we have internal controls to make
sure it gets spent for what was appropriated and agreed to by the Board. We do have the flexibility, and
what we see what we see in the past is that a budget is an estimate at this point in time, and two months
later we get into the Board hopefully we'll approve the requested budget in early November.
Two months later, we'll get into the actual year. And as you get further into the year, the more differences
you have the budget, and they're always underbudget because we have the controls in place, you can't
go over budget, so you spend within your budget, but a lot of things don't get started or maybe there's
delays in hiring positions. So we often have positive variances, which gives us that flexibility.
We also have the agility to reprioritize. Something that may have been a project, for instance, it may have
been a high priority in October, November of 2022, in June of 2023, may not be feasible, may not go
forward, and that provides additional funding to maybe consider something else. Of course, that would go
through the Board for approval to relocate that money, too.

But I think to your point of that question, is really, we do have some ability to move within that budget
going through the approval process, that I do think we have that flexibility, where in past years we were
so tight on money, it didn't give us a lot of room for movement.
Right, right. OK, yeah, thanks for making that point and going through that. That flexibility is good to have.
And I guess this leads into my second question, which is, is it fair to-- and we talked about this a little bit.
Is it fair to expect that our highest risk in terms of budget variance at this point continues to be People
Power problem, that if we don't fill these vacant positions, given the substantial portion of our
expenditures, that is that, that we may have a substantial underspend again?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. And I probably should have put more emphasis on that, and it has a cascading
effect as you can imagine. So if you don't have the person there, they can't necessarily deliver projects
and execute on things that cascade down to other costs, external services where we need a project
manager to manage a contract or we need somebody to order parts, et cetera. So yeah, it's definitely is
our biggest concern in terms of budget variances, I think, at this point.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. OK. Yeah, it makes sense. Something to watch. Hard to control, but thank you
very much, I appreciate that. Look forward to seeing the final budget, and I know, working on the carryforward, so it'll be interesting to see where that comes out I know, and thank you for bringing this to us as
a discussion item.
Without any further hands going up, we'll go ahead and conclude that. Again, thank you very much to the
team, and Doug, really, thanks for going in deep on this. And also for the format of the budget that's
provided. I meant to mention that, it's great. The way the narrative is structured, the detail, it's really
awesome. Thank you.
All right. We're going to move into other matters. And Director Broom, you jumped the gun before, so I'll
go ahead and make sure to give it to you first. Go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The one thing that I missed in this whole budget discussion that we
would normally see by now is new data from the 2020 Census about what's going on within our district so
that we can properly plan for the transportation needs. And so I'm not sure why it's taking so long for
those numbers to come out, but I wonder if we should team up with DRCOG and with the CDOT and to
see if we can't get a consultant on board to pull together all these various numbers that we all need to do
long-term planning.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for making that comment, Director Broom. I'm going to take a note on that
as a planning item. I don't know if-- Mr MacLeod, if you have any comments you want to offer on that. I
know, unfortunately, we're working on changing the timing of this meeting in future years. I know we're on
top of the APTA TransPro. So I don't know if Ms. Johnson has anything she wants to chime in at this
point, but I'm also happy to take that if you're OK with this, Dr.-- or doctor-- Director Broom as a follow-up
item for us to follow up on. But Ms. Johnson, go ahead if you'd like to comment.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, no, I think that is great, and excuse the noise, as you indicated, I'm at the APTA
TRANSform. But yes, we can explore that going forward as well. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Ms. Johnson. Yeah, thank you for raising that, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: It's all I have, thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I had one very quick other matter, and I will be bringing this up again,
especially as we go into the new year, but this is the second-to-last finance meeting of the year, which is
hard to believe. But this is more just for my Board colleagues to start thinking about.
Something I've been really reflecting on has been as we're coming out of-- well, going into our audit
process, we had our risk assessment. And one item that didn't make it to the top list was our dependence
on sales and use tax. And it didn't make it into the top list largely because of the factor of its likelihood or
probability to happen.
What's interesting about that is both staff and Board rated it fairly highly as having an impact to the
agency. And the Board actually had it as its highest. And the likelihood of that, what strikes me, has
increased when we rate the likelihood of risk based on what we just most recently saw at our last meeting
from CU Leeds about where our sales and use tax are going.
And so that dependency on sales and use tax, and especially as we think about impacts from TABOR
and so forth, is a risk to the agency and our ability to operate once we do start to return workforce. So I
took some time and opening the door to work with other directors here to really start looking more closely
at other budgets of other transit agencies, not just locally in the United States, but also globally.
And some things really dawn on me. I know a number of directors have talked about the concept of
diversifying our funds and diversifying revenue sources. And I think that's something that we need to work
together as a board to start a regional conversation on.
We do have a, as we just were reviewing with this budget, a 75 to 80% of our revenue and proceeds
dependent upon sales tax. And I think given that we're in this new normal fare revenues, and here, we're
looking at fare simplification and reduction, are going to remain low. And when we look across the
country, I mean it's easy just to pick out examples. I mean, TRIMET that may not be the best one
because they don't collect sales tax, but they do have a payroll tax component.
The MBTA in Boston has 16% of their budget comes from local and state assessments. And that's
something that comes to my mind as we talk about these partnership programs and almost looking at
those as a pilot, and one of the reasons I'm very curious about what the contribution is from those local
partners, I think given our credibility as an agency and given what FasTracks has led us to, we certainly
have to look to those partners and local and state.
And again, when we look at Philadelphia as a system, a lot more familiar with having a lot of family in the
area and being used to the system, again, substantial state and local funding going into that. The same
thing is true, you name it. SB 21-260 passed last year represented a huge opportunity.
In my mind, one of the other reasons we need to diversify funding it's increasingly dawning on me that
sales tax does not necessarily scale the way it needs to for our area. We have 2,300 square miles, we
like to talk about that. What that means is we have these huge swaths of area that don't actually have
revenue-generating assets in terms of sales, or even land or even property for that matter.
And so things that we can look at, SB 21-260, I think, contemplated this fairly well with vehicle miles
traveled and fees on other services, and I know that we have political challenges in terms of our ability to
work with the state on-- I would say making transit a priority over just strictly road improvements.
But I do think that as we head into next year, that's something-- I look across this group here and I'm
appreciative of all of you. I think we have creative minds. I think we have folks who have the energy to do

this. I think we have folks who are interested in able to reach out to other elected officials to start this
discussion. But we are extremely dependent on a tax that does not scale for our service area properly,
and also exposes us to the type of risk that we're looking at from CU Leeds next year as Mr. MacLeod
pointed out right as we head into the TABOR ratchet-down effect.
So if anyone has any comments on that, I certainly welcome them, but also just throwing it out there as
something I'd like for this Board to start talking about and working on next year. Director Guissinger, go
ahead, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I totally agree with you, and looking at it recently when the question has
come up some, I think that diversifying our funding is critical. And obviously the-- I see that 10-year plan,
they've just changed to really focus on transit and multimodal improvements rather than roads.
So I do think that we need to be looking at it, and I think as we plan our budget and our partnerships and
everything else, we need to have a real serious focus on building the relationships that we need for
moving forward in that way. So I agree with you, let's discuss it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Director Guissinger, I appreciate it. Yeah. Not something for us to solve now
at 8:55, but I think next year is a good thing to be taking on both in finance and across the Board at large.
So thank you for allowing me to take the time on that.
Are there any other matters from other Board members? All right. Well, with that, the next meeting of this
committee will be Tuesday, November 1. It will be a different timing. So it's November 1 as opposed to
the second Tuesday. And so we'll see you then for the last Finance Committee meeting of the year.
Seeing no further discussion, thank you very, very much to all of you for the patience, the collaboration
both on staff and the Board. We will adjourn at 8:56 PM Mountain Time. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Good job, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. Have fun.

