2025-01-21
Performance Committee Meeting
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. The Tuesday, January 21 Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:31 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website during today's meeting. During
today's meeting, we are providing the Communication Access Real-Time Translation, also known as
CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would like to now call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Gutschenritter. I'm sorry.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Also here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [LAUGHS] Matt Larsen. Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Forgive me. This is my first time calling roll, y'all. Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am the Chair, Michael Guzman. I am here. For the record, and I might need
some help, I see we also have Director Paglieri. We have Director Ruscha. And I believe that-- oh, and
we have Chair Bouquet as well and Director Benker. Did I miss anybody? All right. Thank you. Please
help me keep an eye out. If somebody shows up and I don't recognize them, I would appreciate the
assist.
The next item on the agenda is the public comment. I would like to open public comment to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Guzman, we have a number of hands raised. At this time, I'm
seeing about a half a dozen hands. And the first individual is Bradley Miller.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. [CLEARS THROAT] And I feel it's incumbent to say this. We have
folks that have meetings immediately after this committee that need to be on time. I am going to request
that you make your comments. We want to hear them, but be brief and direct. We need to get our work
done. If the comments run too long, we may need to suspend public comment temporarily while we focus
on our work. That will be an absolute last resort. I believe in public comment, but we are on a time-limited
basis here. That said, what was the name that you gave me? I apologize.
JACK KROLL: That's OK. It is Bradley Miller.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I will recognize Bradley Miller. You will have 1 minute and 30 seconds to speak.
Please state your name at the beginning of your statement so we have it on the record. You are now
recognized.
BRADLEY MILLER: Hi, there. Yeah, this is Bradley Miller. I am a resident of District L in the RTD lineup.
I'm reaching out because recently, it came to my attention that the current lineup of goals that have been
established by the CEO and handed over to the Board laid out a set of objectives that are, frankly, very
concerning. RTD's ridership has not met post-COVID goals and has not met with peer cities in meaningful
ways.
And I am seriously concerned about this. I'm going to bring up a few numbers that were brought to my
attention by my fellow GTD constituents. We are actually behind almost every single peer city in terms of
dollars spent in relation to our ridership numbers. We are spending roughly $360 per operation and about
$17 per rider. And yet our ridership numbers are around 62%, where peer cities spending the same
amount of money or even less-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Miller-BRADLEY MILLER: --like Seattle-MICHAEL GUZMAN: --you're at a minute, 30.
BRADLEY MILLER: Oh, thank you so much.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: What is the next name in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Ryan Kenney.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Ryan Kenney, you are recognized.
RYAN KEENEY: Hi. I am-- well, OK. I can't figure out how to turn the camera on, but I am currently on an
RTD light rail train right now, crawling from Colorado Station to Yale. I boarded at Broadway about 50
minutes ago, almost a full hour ago now. With the frequency increase, the operator has said that there is
a gigantic traffic jam caused by the slow zone.
And I mean, the ongoing issues with the Southeast corridor are just thoroughly unacceptable. And any
performance evaluation of the GM and CEO must account for reliability and ridership because it's just
[INAUDIBLE]. As a taxpayer and an advocate of RTD, I mean, I want to encourage people to ride it, but I
can't, in good faith, do it. I mean, I can barely ride it myself.
So yeah, I took the opportunity to make a public comment since I have nothing better to do on this very
slow train, which has been stop and go. I've lost times the number-- lost count of the number of times this
train stopped mid-track or at stations for extended periods. So yeah, thank you for all the good work you
do, Directors. And yeah, that's it. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have someone who has phoned in, and their phone number ends in 5107.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please remember to state your name at the beginning of your comments. The
phone number ending in 5107, you are recognized.
MICHAEL FARRINGTON: Thank you. My name is Michael Farrington. I'm also calling in about the
upsetting goal session. I have lived in RTD's district my entire life. Our transit on-time percentage and
reliability has gone down in that time, especially over the last two years. Setting an on-time percentage
that is as vague and is unsubstantiated as it currently is in the goals is just not good enough.
We're lagging behind our peer cities, and, frankly, as constituents, we deserve better. I would encourage
this body to reconsider the goals and set goals that aspire to be a world-class transit agency, like the GM
always says that she seeks, rather than setting for something that is adequate at most. Thank you so
much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, the next one?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have Joe Meyer.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Joe Meyer, you are recognized. Please remember to state your name at the
beginning of your comments.
JOE MEYER: Thank you. My name is Joe Meyer. I'm a District L resident and involved with the Citizens
Advisory Committee and Greater Denver Transit. I'm happy to see that the three proposed goals show
that this committee is prioritizing issues that affect riders. But I would like to urge the committee to think
more ambitiously, set more aggressive targets, and show riders, employees, and taxpayers that you are
serious about meaningfully pursuing continued improvements in RTD's performance.

Increasing light rail service availability to 96% by the end of September is achievable and represents an
improvement over today. But I would like to see this coupled with a commitment not to cut service
frequency or service hours to achieve this. On-time performance must be improved far beyond the
proposed 1.5%. Commuter rail already has great on-time performance and should not be combined with
light rail for this metric, as it would mask the real improvements needed to light rail.
Bus and light rail are showing on-time performance of around 80% or less throughout 2024. Light rail ontime performance dropped by 30 percentage points from March to October. A 1.5% improvement is
laughably unambitious compared to that and doesn't get anywhere close to turning that around.
Yes, I recognize meaningful improvements here are going to require resources and effort, but that's the
point of these goals, to help shape how the agency allocates resources and effort. I'd propose that all
modes be improved to 85% or better on-time performance, with continued increases on top of this in
subsequent years.
Although bus performance is subject to many factors outside of RTD's control, targeted upgrades to bus
infrastructure and coordination with local governments can achieve this metric.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You are at 1 minute, 30-JOE MEYER: Some of the route splits-- oh. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is your comment wrappable?
JOE MEYER: Yes. I'd like to add just one more piece, that for ridership, 3% is too low. We're talking
much, much bigger operating budget increases than that and service hour increases by 3% from 2024 to
2025. So we need to provide better service, up to 70 million boardings in 2025. And I look forward to
more ambitious targets. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have Keith Brooks.
KEITH BROOKS: Hello. I just wanted to state that, looking through the goals, the three main categories
set out that the GM/CEO are evaluated on are pretty good, though I do have problems, like many have
stated here, with the exact details of the short-term goals. The three categories are about what you'd
expect.
However, my main concern is how points are apportioned between these categories, specifically, that
short term goals represent only 30 points this year, which is even fewer than last year. And I don't think
it's particularly fair to Debra Johnson if what she will hear about at every Board meeting, what the
Directors will hear about is things like ridership and revenue and safety.
But meanwhile, her actual goals, those will only be 30%, which kind of puts her in an awkward position.
So I would like to see the portion of the goals that we will be hearing and experiencing the most over the
next year to comprise a larger fraction of the goals, ideally somewhere in the 40% to 48% range. That's
my piece.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: Next, we have Cody-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. Before we do that, I did see Director Chandler joined us as well.
JACK KROLL: Great. Next, we have Cody Bryan.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Cody Bryan, you are recognized. Please state your name and begin.
BODY BRYAN: Yes, my name is Cody Bryan. I am a member of GTD and also a resident of District C. I
believe the Board has planted their flag in the correct place for the first two goals, albeit a little too low on
the hill for anyone to see. But the third goal, based around the survey data, provides no meaningful way
to judge the actual rider experience on board RTD's rail and bus services.
I believe a more meaningful target for this Board would be increasing farebox recovery. In order to
achieve this goal, having a more direct presence on Board trains and buses for the purposes of checking
whether riders have purchased a ticket or not, evidence from other agencies has shown that by
increasing fare enforcement leads to a decline in the types of illicit or uncomfortable activity that can deter
people from riding RTD in the first place.
This enforcement would not only have to be carried out by transit officers, as other agencies have piloted
the use of fare ambassadors to achieve these goals. An added benefit of targeting farebox recovery as a
potential added revenue to RTD's its budget, demonstrating sound financial stewardship. I would urge the
Board to reconsider their third goal for performance standards. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have Richard Bamber.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Richard Bamber, you are recognized. Please remember to state your name. Mr.
Bamber?
JACK KROLL: Perhaps we can move to the next individual, Director Guzman, and then we can circle
back to Mr. Bamber. Mr. Bamber, we're having audio issues. We can't hear you. So next on the list here,
we have Alexander Hoertner-- or, excuse me, Hoerter.
ALEXANDER HOERTER: Hi. Good morning. Thank you. My name is Alexander Hoerter, like I just said.
And I was phoning in this morning just to speak a little bit about what I thought about the goals. As some
of the previous public commenters have said, the ridership improvement goal is frankly not sufficient
given the scale of RTD and what we're trying to achieve here.
More specifically, in my previous discussions and advocacy with RTD, I've heard that driver retention is a
big factor, and nowhere in here am I seeing actionable, besides the goals, ways that this can be
improved. So for the particular case of driver retention, if you're trying to retain drivers, higher pay and so
forth is helpful.
But to speak more directly to the goals, you need to increase operator availability specifically, increase
frequency on certain routes. I would like to specifically call out the AB route from Boulder to airport, both
AB1 and AB2. In the most recent January surface changes, it has been increased, but frankly, it is still not
enough.

In some areas, people are frankly hurting for buses, in other areas, not so much. And so I think it's also
important to take a look at the allocation of resources and make sure we're putting resources where they
need to be. Specifically, as it comes to fare enforcement. I would also like to echo what another member
said. Fare enforcement is very critical, especially on the light rail and commuter rail lines, to ensure a safe
environment as well as it makes people follow the rules, frankly. That's all I have. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll. Shall we recognize Mr. Bamber one more time, see if we can
hear him?
JACK KROLL: Yes.
RICHARD BAMBER: OK. Can you hear me now?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. Please proceed.
RICHARD BAMBER: Perfect. Good morning, Chair Guzman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. The
goals are definitely an improvement on last year. We're starting to see focusing on the real things that the
voters and the customers care about-- ridership, safety, ridership, and reliability. That said, the waiting-we would like the waiting of the goals to be up in the 40s.
The rest of it feels like running the transit agency on vibes. We need hard goals and hard things to be
achieved. The goals need to be written with hard numbers. Ridership is a hard number, 60-something
million. Therefore, the goal needs to be a hard number, 70 million. Relative percentages can be able to
explain it, but they shouldn't be the goal.
Now, with the goals and setting these things, the goals need to be sufficiently challenging that the
response we want to incentivize our GM and CEO to do is that she's got to walk away going, I need to do
decisive action here. I need to bring in new policies, procedures. I can't just sit back and have a good year
and achieve it. That said, the balance is the goals are also SMART goals, and the A in SMART is
Achievable and Attainable.
OK, so the other thing I need people to understand is that for the first year, if the GM and CEO rolls out a
whole load of new policies to increase ridership, it's unlikely that the full effects of those policies will be felt
in year one. Therefore, we're keeping them quite almost on a level of unambitious. But that's good. But
the expectation will be year 2, 3, and 4, when these policies really kick in, that that ridership target will go
up in a non-linear fashion. The thing is, goal three, it needs to be-MICHAEL GUZMAN: We are at a minute, 30. I'm sorry.
RICHARD BAMBER: --needs to be replaced. Police and security need to board 70 trains a day. And we
need fare revenue to go to 70 million. And we'll support a fourth organizational resilience goal that we've
heard about should that be introduced. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. The name of the next speaker, please, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, the next speaker is simply listed as Matt.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Matt-MATT MAYERNIK: Hey, can you guys hear me?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, you are recognized. Please state your name for the record.
MATT MAYERNIK: Matt Mayernik.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
MATT MAYERNIK: And just wanted to briefly speak on my experience why using the light rail is just not a
viable option for my wife and I. We were using it consistently about a year ago, E and H line. We live right
by one of the stations. But she stopped using it because of safety concerns. So we need to increase fare
enforcement because there's people literally smoking drugs on the train.
And as for me, I can't take it to work anymore because it's super unreliable. I never know when there's
going to be a cancellation. And when it does show up, there's spots where the train moves five miles per
hour or less. So I would love to be a daily rider. We both would. We'll pay our fare. We'd love to support
the program.
But unfortunately, it's just not a viable option. And right now, we're both driving to work. And we just don't
want to do that. So if we can really reach these goals of fare enforcement and more consistency, you
have two solid riders and two solid supporters at my house. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, is there somebody else?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Committee Chair Guzman, I see no further hands raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Were there any matters emailed to this committee for the record?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all received two emails in advance of today's meeting, and a third came in during
the course of the meeting. The first-- excuse me, the first email came from an Evan Odelberg, and it was
in relation to today's agenda action item, the short-term goals for the GM and CEO. The second email
was from an Edwin Clark Silva, also related to the short-term goals item listed on your agenda. And the
third item is a follow up from Mr. Meyer, who spoke earlier on the topic of the short-term goals.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I do also want to state that in our work, there have been several
versions of goals that have been shared with folks, and there may be more today. I think it would be wise
to try and compile those so that the full Board has access to them, as this is a full Board matter.
We also want our CEO and General Manager, Debra Johnson, to be able to review those and opine. And
so if anything is new today, that is acceptable. But we want to make sure that we have that writing and
language in front of all parties so that it's fair. Thank you to the public for giving us your comments. I will
now close the public comment section, and we will move on to the recommended action.
Before we begin this, I do have a couple of comments I would like to make. And then I will accept a
motion. I'll turn it over to Debra to present, and then we can discuss. Please refrain from personalities in
our meetings. It is part of our Board operating guidelines. You will be interrupted, and I will call on the
next speaker, and you will no longer be recognized.
We will proceed with respect as it is one of our agency values, but we do our work through the values of
diversity, trustworthiness, collaboration, ownership, and passion. Those are clearly defined in our
strategic plan, and we need to follow them because leadership starts at the top. If we are out of order in

any of those, it would be responsible to either stop, or I will recognize the next speaker, and we will
continue on.
I would like to keep it to the matter before us only. Keep the comments and questions germane to the
subject we are discussing. It is our custom as a Board, and this is a learning moment, for us to remember
that one or two direct questions about the matter before us and perhaps a concise and clear statement on
the matter is best practice so that everybody has an opportunity to speak.
Do not speak unless you're recognized. If you do not hear your name called or I do not catch a hand, it
may be appropriate to unmute to get my attention. That is perfectly fine. But please allow me the
opportunity to recognize you first so you can continue.
We are on CART, so speak clearly and at a pace respectful of the transcriptionist. I'll remind speakers if
we see the transcripts getting a little jumbled because they cannot interrupt our proceedings, and we want
to work together as good partners. That said, I am going to request that General Manager CEO Johnson
please proceed with the presentation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Greetings. Debra Johnson, General Manager and
CEO. May I ask Jack Kroll to share his screen and bring up the presentation?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I'm happy to do that. While I do that, Director Guzman, would you like to ask for a
motion to put this item on the table?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So as this is coming to us for recommended action, which is only recommended
and we have the opportunity to speak here, I would like to seek a motion.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I hear Director Buzek as the movant.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: [INAUDIBLE] a second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair, if I may, my motion would be for the Board of Directors to approve, pursuant to the
GM/CEO's performance framework adopted in January 2024, in alignment with the Board's employment
agreement with the GM/CEO, the proposed short-term SMART goals for the performance period
commencing January 28, 2025 and continuing through October 15, 2025. That would be my motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there a proper second to that motion?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: I'll second. Gutschenritter.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. I have the movement as stated-- Buzek and a second from Vice Chair
Gutschenritter. Debra, if you are ready, you can proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Mr. Kroll, if you could advance to the next slide,
please. Thank you very kindly.

What I intend to do, in a succinct and concise fashion this morning, is present to all of you for your
edification the General Manager/CEO performance assessment framework, of which Director Buzek just
referenced in the recommended action, talk about the annual performance assessment components that
are comprised of the base job performance that basically was extrapolated from the job description that
was created by a third party when the Board of Directors was recruiting to fill the position of General
Manager/CEO in the summer of 2020. Going forward, talk about the short-term goals and have a
discussion relative to proposed-- operative word is proposed-- 2025 goals, of which both parties are to
align around. Next slide, please. Next slide, please.
So looking at the graphic depiction before you, we can clearly see to the left of the screen, there is the
General Manager/CEO accountability and, to the right, the Board of Director accountability. Recognizing
the assessment framework that was adopted by this body in January of 2024, agency values comprise a
portion of the framework, recognizing it's critically important that the General Manager and CEO
demonstrates the ideals and beliefs that the agency holds to be true through the adoption of the six
values, i.e. simply put, how does the General Manager and CEO show up while performing one's duties?
To the right of that box is the core/base job duties. It's the strategy, execution, and leadership, i.e. the
base job duties are critically important relative to the job in which I, holding the position of the General
Manager and CEO, was hired. And that is something clearly that's done 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
and 365 days of the year, recognizing that service delivery basically is provided through this organization
every day of the year.
Recognizing the importance of assessing what needs to be done through short-term goals that we have
qualified as being Smart, Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Time-bound, it's outlining what
will be done in the performance period, which, for a point of clarification, actually isn't a 12-month period,
recognizing that we're having a conversation today on January 21, and that due to the fiscal year, which
correlates with the calendar year, it's actually closer to nine and a half months about what will be done.
In the gray box, it's grayed intentionally. But optimally, as we go forward, there should be, excuse me,
long-term goals in support of the agency's core business, which is outlined in the RTD Act, which is
delivering transit services to this region, being the Denver Metro region. Next slide, please. Next slide,
please. Thank you.
So as we look at this coming full circle relative to the agency values and the core/base job duties, each
accounts for a designated percentage of the annual performance. And then the short-term goals relative
to what it that is collectively decided by this body with input from me as the General Manager and CEO
outlines a percentage of the annual performance, so i.e. agency values, which are critical in
demonstrating how I show up in doing my base job duties as well as the short-term goals. Next slide,
please.
So as a refresher, in 2024, the assessment scale basically mirrored three areas of ratings, with the
primary one being meet expectations because it is expected that I meet the expectations. If I'm not
meeting expectations, I would encourage this body to get somebody in the job that can, recognizing that
does not meet expectations would be less than 50 points accrued, and anything exceeding expectations
was in the 80 to 100 point range.
Recognizing in 2025 there needs to be a discussion relative to the assessment scale and point allocation
and then, pursuant to the employment contract, the Eighth Amendment that was approved on December

10 of 2024, the contract salary adjustment range goes from 1% to 7%. Next slide, please. Next slide,
please.
This is clearly a snapshot of the job description in which I've referenced. I believe every Board member is
in possession of this as General Counsel Snyder provided this in electronic form to you all last week. As I
indicated during my opening remarks, this was derived from the 2020 Chief Executive Officer/General
Manager position description, which was developed with input from the Board with a third-party executive
search firm, Krauthamer & Associates.
Also, what's critically important when you're managing any individual, regardless of position, it's critically
important said manager to provide quarterly feedback at a minimum and dialogue during the performance
period. This has been qualified into the Eighth Amendment to my employment contract as I had not
received that previously and then recognizing the evaluation or evaluative criteria assessed by the Board
would be done by the fourth quarter of each year, i.e. as I indicated, more likely in the November time
frame due to the fiscal year at this agency, which is in alignment with the calendar year. Next slide,
please.
So as a gentle reminder, these are the agency values, i.e. passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness,
collaboration, and ownership. These are critically important. As we talk about my base job duties as well
as any short-term goals, I need to possess these values and demonstrate those in the course of my work.
And this is something, as you heard from Committee Chair Guzman, it's indicative of all of us in our roles
at the agency to model the behaviors we like to see. Next slide, please. Next slide, please.
So this is a clear depiction of how our strategic plan falls in line with the short-term goals that I will discuss
momentarily. As you can see, in the middle of this pyramid, the strategic priorities, it's basically outlining
what it is that we will concentrate on for the life of the current performance plan, i.e. as we talk about
strategic priorities, it's our customer excellence, community values, employee ownership, and financial
success.
But delving more specifically into the strategic initiatives, it's what we're tackling this year. Focusing on
back to basics, people power, welcoming transit environment, and customer and community connections
are critically important. And as you can see, below that are the tactics. It's how will we get work done. And
so basically, every individual employee in this organization that's non-represented, as well as those on
the front lines, are making contributions.
But from a performance vantage point, there's tactical type initiatives that feed into our strategic initiatives
that fall into the priorities going back up to the values, our mission, and then our vision, what we are
utilizing as our north star, which is us being the trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value
to our community and our customers. Going forward to the next slide, please.
So as a gentle reminder, once again, these short-term goals are in support of the strategic plan, which
was adopted by the Board of Directors in August of 2021. And the goals that are being proposed are
clearly in alignment with the strategic initiatives of this year that are focusing on customer and community
connections as well as welcoming transit environment. Next slide, please.
So in relationship to the first goal, which is in alignment with customer and community connections, the
goal as written states that no later than September 30, 2025 to increase light rail service availability to
96%, which is 50% of the goal, and to increase annualized on-time performance by 1.5% for both fixed
route bus and rail. When we talk about fixed route, we are merely talking about our bus service.

And in relationship to this, I want to just provide some context that historically, RTD's bus and commuter
rail service availability metrics have remained above 99%, meaning that for every 100 trips scheduled,
more than 99 trips are operated. Light rail service availability has been impacted in recent years due to
several factors. You heard from several commenters earlier in the meeting, the factors including but not
limited to our operator availability and state of good repair and preventative maintenance activities.
So overall, light rail service availability for 2024 was 94.34%, meaning that of the 223,205 trips scheduled,
208,412 were actually operated. On-time performance is influenced by numerous factors, including
elements both within the agency's control, which could revolve around operator availability, scheduling,
and maintenance, and then outside of the agency's control would be regional traffic patterns, road
congestion, service impacts, construction detours, weather.
Increasing on-time performance by evening small increments requires budgetary support as well as
considerable concerted effort of bus and rail operations teams, as well as service planning and human
resources. And so for the first 11 months of 2024, average on-time performance for fixed route service by
mode is as follows, which is included in your packet. Bus was 80.4%, light rail 77%, and commuter rail is
95.2%.
I'd like to share, while I've heard comments about the number of 1.5%, it's critically important for those
that aren't familiar with how one develops a service plan that there's critical factors in recognizing where
we are with our budget and elements within and the time period. I would just ensure that there is a laserlike focus on what actually can be done.
I want you to know that I am committed to ensuring that we can deliver to the best of our abilities. I do not
shy away from challenges, but I do believe expectations need to be managed around what can be done.
When one develops a schedule, first, you look at the schedule in and of itself. Then you discern how
many vehicles that you need. From the vehicles, you determine how much people power you need.
From there, you determine how many supervisors you need because it's about managing the network. It's
critically important that one pulls out on time. It's critically important that you meet your time spots. And
then as you go from there, that's how you generate on-time performance. So there's certain mechanisms
that need to be in place as we move forward. If you can advance the slide, Mr. Kroll, to slide two, I would
appreciate it.
So the short-term goal 2 is to increase year-over-year fixed route vehicle boardings by 3% from the period
commencing October 1, 2024 and ending September 30, 2025 while optimizing the increase in RTD's
2025 annualized revenue service hours to 3,191,109.
Now, this goal aligns with the agency's efforts to improve performance metrics tied to community
perceptions, attitudes, and opinions of the value that RTD provides to the Denver Metro region and of
RTD's provisions of service to major activity centers, as well as the state's visionary ridership goal of 6%.
RTD continues to optimize service levels and is incrementally approaching the level of service delivery
contemplated in the comprehensive operations analysis branded by this agency as its own system
optimization plan, which was adopted by the Board in July of 2022.
Funding in calendar year 2025, which is also this agency's fiscal year for the increase in revenue service
hours of approximately 102,000, was included in the 2025 budget, which was approved by the Board
December 3. Annual boardings for the period commencing October 1, 2023 through September 30, 2024
totaled 65,000-- excuse me, 65,767,000. A 3% year-over-year increase as contemplated in this goal will

equate to nearly 2 million additional boardings, which is the equivalent of 5,400 additional boardings daily.
Moving forward to the next slide, Mr. Kroll.
So as we look at the next goal, which is an alignment with the welcoming transit environment, this goal is
to increase customer survey responses by 4% from calendar year 2024 to calendar year 2025 in relation
to questions pertaining to customers' perception of feeling safe and secure while waiting at stops or
stations and feeling safe and secure aboard vehicles.
Now, this goal intensely is to improve performance metrics related to customers' perceptions of personal
safety and security. So as you all are aware, customer excellence surveys were conducted in 2024, and
they indicated that 55% of bus and rail customers felt personally safe and secure while waiting for fixed
route transit vehicles, and 62% of bus and rail customers felt personally safe and secure while aboard
RTD vehicles.
While these responses are significantly higher than national averages for transit agencies, staff
anticipates that an increase in customer perceptions of safety and security will yield corresponding
increases in boardings as well as customer satisfaction with RTD services. Simply put, individuals have a
tendency to feel safer in numbers, and hence, we're better together. And so recognizing that, we can
advance to the next slide, please. Next slide.
So as it relates to the 2025 performance framework, putting forward the retention of the 2024 structure,
as you can see before you, I've already outlined the components, which comprises the framework in and
of itself, the agency values, plus the core/base job functions accounts for 64% of the annual performance
and in the short-term goals, at 36.
And then we have the salary adjustment relative to the expectation category for the ratings, starting with
the primary one being meets expectations in the center of the box to the right being 50 to 79, then going
to does not meet, 0 to 49, and then exceeds to 80 to 100. And then the point allocation you can see to the
right, which is also captured in the Board report that's attached in your packets. Next slide, please.
So as it relates to the annual performance assessment components as it relates to going forward, the
agency values 10%, the core/base job functions 50%, which equates to 60%, and the short-term goals of
30%. These are round numbers after having conversations with Board members independently
recognizing some angst, I would say, with the numbers that were utilized last year. But as we all know,
this is a discussion to be had. Moving forward to the next slide, please.
So as it relates to the adjustment alignment relative to meeting expectations, looking at the middle of the
screen with the rating category, 55 to 80 points for the range, adjusted base salary to 3% to 5.99%, then
basically jumping to the meet not-- not meet expectations, excuse me, 0% to 54% with 1% to 2.99%, and
then exceeds 81 to 100 points to adjusted base salary 6% to 7%. Next slide, please.
That concludes my presentation. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. I will yield the floor to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. In addition to this, we do have to discuss one matter that I would like to
address, and that is the Likert scale on which we do our review to make a simple change. So I am
presenting this to you, but we do need to make a decision about this. Last year, I think there was an
unforeseen circumstance in the way that it was done.
I would propose that we also send a recommendation to the Executive Committee along with this, that we
change the Likert scale to begin at 0 and end at 5, that is, a 5-point spread for every question we will be

answering on our review at the end of the year in order to get a true calculation of responses from the
Board. That is the only thing that I am suggesting as part of this going forward to the Board.
It is not in the slides here, but it is a component that we need to decide now because it will take effect at
the end of the month. And if we do not additionally speak to that, then we end up with potentially a
problem that was unforeseen last year. So it's not of great effect or consequence. It's just something that
we need to consider. Mr. Kroll, I'm going to ask you to pull down your screen for just a moment. Thank
you. And I am ready for the committee to have a conversation. First recognized is Vice Chair
Gutschenritter.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you very much, Chair Guzman. And CEO Johnson, thank
you very much for the energy, effort, and thought that went into defining all of that and walking us through
it. I know that was a lot of work. As Vice Chair, over the past week, I have individually spoke with majority
of the Board, again, individually.
And one of the strategic initiatives that kept coming up and that would really make people, I think, feel
more confident about the short-term goals is people power. And tied to that specifically is something that's
been discussed, I know, in 2024 and come up again in 2025. And that is around organizational resiliency.
We'd like to see that added as a fourth goal.
The reason adding it as a fourth goal and not substituting is that we're confident that it should be
achievable. We believe that's best for the agency. We believe it's best for you in the sense that it would
allow you to focus truly on the CEO/GM hat and not have to wear multiple hats.
The specific language, which would love to hear your thoughts and have more dialogue around it, is to
have two C-suite active or plain vacancies to be filled by end of April 2025 and to have a Board approved
succession strategy by July 31, 2025. I will pause and see if there's questions or thoughts.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. Sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Gutschenritter, for that addition. I'm seeking
a point of clarity as you qualified it as organizational resiliency. It sounds as if you're really speaking to
leadership resiliency, considering that most successful organizations create resiliency through
professional development of current and future leaders.
I would qualify as well as we talk about April, let's be clear that I am actively recruiting for several
positions, and there is a myriad of factors that go into place when one is recruiting. Simply put, I could put
anybody in the job, but I have to ensure that they meet the minimum qualifications, that they're
competent, that we're adhering to Colorado State law in reference to ensuring that there's equal pay for
equal work. So there's a myriad of different factors that have to be considered.
If, in fact, a conditional offer is presented to an individual and they don't pass the background check, we
could start anew. So I just want to manage those expectations going forward when we're sitting here at
the end of January having those conversations, and we're talking about two positions critically that we are
having discussions around. So could you provide some more specificity relative to how you derive the
time-bound date of April relative to what you just posed? Thank you.

CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Sure. Yeah. Thank you. So the thinking there with April is that
these roles have been open for some time. And we know that you have been working to actively fill those
and feel that having till the end of April should give you ample time to make those hires. But understood
on what you discussed. If somebody were to reject an offer, there's negotiations that have to occur. But
we think realistically that's going to best set up the agency for success, making the right hires by at least
end of April.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may ask one clarifying question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Committee Chair Gutschenritter, you said make the hire. So as we talk about
individuals that could be outside of the area relocating and things of the like, you're talking about actually
making an offer and having somebody accept with a hire date. And I'm just trying to manage expectations
because there's a lot of nuances that I wasn't able to glean by the statements that were put forward.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Sure. Yeah. And happy to clarify. I think the point would be to
have a-- the hire date could be in the future of April. But having a contract signed, person identified to be
in that role would be-- that's what we would be seeking by end of April.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Gutschenritter. And just for everybody's edification, I
just wanted to state that the only contract employee at this agency is the General Manager and CEO. So
there would be no contract offered to any of the new hires, just for clarification. Thank you very much. I
yield the floor.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Anything further, Vice Chair Gutschenritter. OK, thank you. Director
Larsen, you are recognized.
MATT LARSEN: Thank you. So I've sent each of you an alternative goal framework and set of goals that I
think it is better for driving focus on what we need to do for this agency. I would like to see those goals
mostly replace what we have currently on the table. Right now, I'd just like to highlight my reasoning
behind a few of them.
First of all, I think the large majority of the goals should be based on objective metrics. Last year, there
were 34%, in previous years, 50%. Now I think I see there they're going to represent or proposed to
represent 30%. I think that's going in the wrong direction.
I mean, fortunately for this year, the Board negotiated a contract that did not require a specific percentage
of subjective goals. And I think we should take advantage of that and make sure that the objective
measurements are by far the large majority of the goals since I think those really best reflect how well the
agency is doing to provide more value to current and potential riders.
I mean, alignment with agency values and base job performance, while important, won't really mean a lot
to our riders and taxpayers if we can't deliver a better service that attracts increased ridership through
better reliability and better security. And frankly, I think the objective goals are better for the GM and

CEO, too, since they reward actual results that we can measure more so than anybody's subjective
feelings about somebody.
Next, I'd like to propose-- or I think that the ridership goal should be at least 69.6 million boardings in
2025. I calculated that based on a 5% increase over the seasonally adjusted run rate of the last three
months of ridership data that we have, meaning April, May, and October. Those were the months that
were not affected by the coping panels project, so I thought they were as representative as we could get
at this point.
Some might say that 5% over that run rate is too modest of an increase as it would put us only at 65.8%
of our pre-COVID ridership goal, which is less than cities like San Diego, Salt Lake City, Houston, Austin,
Sacramento, Dallas, and Seattle had achieved in 2023. But I think it's still a good start given the short
amount of time we have had as a new Board to evaluate the situation.
I also think that we should set up the point allocation for this so that 5% represents an A-plus but a
smaller number. There are still a percentage of the points counted towards that goal. So it doesn't
necessarily mean that if 5% is not achieved, there are no points rewarded.
I also propose, and this is a comment you heard from many of the callers, that we have a goal on farebox
recovery. Right now. We are at a very low percentage of revenue in terms of farebox collections, 4% or
5% farebox recovery, lower than most of our peer agencies. I'm proposing the goal be to increase it to 7%
in 2025.
I know it's dropped tremendously in recent years, and I know a large part of that is because of decreased
ridership and lower fares. But I also think a large part of it is because we've had failed to enforce fare
collection in many cases. And that means many riders who should be paying are not simply because they
really have no reason to beyond the goodness of their heart. I think we need to reverse that trend for a
number of reasons, and I think we can if we try.
Last, some might say this new Board has not really had the time to think through the details of some of
the goals that I'm proposing. And so we should just stick with what we have here and focus on 2026. And
it is true, for reasons I don't really understand, that the time that's been allocated for considering
performance goals for this new Board or partially new Board has been really short.
But I still think it's our duty as representatives of the riding and tax-paying public to really risk erring on the
side of too high expectations for improvement than on the side of too low expectations. We all know that
increased transit ridership is crucial for the state to achieve its carbon emissions goals. I don't think we
can wait until 2026 to start accelerating our progress out there.
I think my proposed goals are achievable and would really do more to put RTD on the right track faster.
So whatever happens today, I intend to make sure that the full Board has the opportunity to vote on the
goals that I've proposed in some version. And I hope we can be as ambitious as I've just described.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen. Director Buzek, you are next in queue.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Ms. Snyder, are you there?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I am here, Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: And I just want to confirm that under Robert's Rules, that any amendments to a motion
that is on the table have to be done by a motion to amend that is seconded and then voted upon. Is that
correct, even in committee?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct, Director Buzek. I would just recommend that there be some
discussion. And then, yes, if there's going to be any motions to amend, those need to come with a
second.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, OK. I just want to make sure that the two Directors that have already spoken
understand that if they want to bring this forward for us as a committee to consider, you're going to have
to state it as a motion to amend. You're going to have to have a second. And then we'll dispose of the
motion to amend, and we'll dispose of them in however many orders. I know, Michael, you know that. But
I'm just not sure. We just have all this discussion about people that want amendments, but no one's
making any motion to do that. So maybe it's too soon for that. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, you are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Hi, there. And I apologize for the sirens in the background. The downside of living
downtown is that we have fire trucks on a pretty regular basis.
So I have a couple of comments. I'll start with this. During this meeting, literally just in the last hour or so,
I've received multiple emails and text messages about the substantial delays on the Southeast corridor.
There are people in my district who are going to be an hour late to work because of what's going on the
Southeast corridor and because we didn't effectively let them know at the stations and beforehand that
we were going to be doing such disruptive maintenance.
So that leads into my first comment, which is a 1.5% increase on on-time performance on bus and light
rail just isn't good enough. We used to be at 95% just a couple of years ago for light rail, and now we're
down below 70%. People use this to get to work. They use this to get to the things that they absolutely
have to depend upon to get to.
And when we're telling them 30% of the time what you're riding on is going to be at least five minutes late
and, in some cases, much later, they're not going to use it. So I think that it's-- for me, I don't understand
why we can't get back to 85% on bus ridership, which is where we were in 2022. And I don't understand
why we can't get up to at least 75% on light rail ridership-- or not ridership, sorry, on-time percentage,
which is well below where we were in 2022. So that's the first question.
The second point, I think that what's been said about ridership is absolutely right. I listened to the SMART
Act hearings on Friday. I was not there, but I bothered to take the time. And our CFO, Doug MacLeod,
said during those hearings that the expectation for 2025 was 68 million boardings. The SMART goal that's
proposed would get us to 67,740,000. boardings. So I would suggest that at a minimum, our SMART goal
should be meaningfully ahead of what the agency is already projecting as our ridership for 2025.
If we're saying publicly 68 million, the goal should be 70 million, though I'll admit I would take 69 million,
which would be a 5% increase, a little over 69 million. 69,055,000 would be a 5% increase over the
number cited in the packet for 2024. And I think it would be disturbing, quite honestly, to a lot of the public
if we couldn't manage a 5% increase considering how far below other peer agencies, as Director Larsen
pointed out, that we are right now.

And then the third thing I'll say is I'm uncomfortable with any type of SMART goal that's measured by a
survey rather than measured by data. There is good, hard data that we have when it comes to fair
enforcement, when it comes to security boardings on a train. The Greater Denver Transit folks pointed
out that we keep track of what our security officers do. Being able to say, we're checking in on 50% of
trains, 70% of trains, whatever it is, is a useful, hard metric that cannot be gamed by who we end up
asking with this and what kind of responses we get.
And so I think that we should have a conversation going forward about changing that goal. I'm not sure it's
something we can do on the fly because it would mean completely rewriting that. As a small note, if we
did get the-- so I'm fine with leaving number three where it is. You can only argue about so many things.
But I think that of those, it would be bordering on unconscionable if we didn't get ridership up at least 5%.
And I'm comfortable right now making a motion to increase that to 5%. And [INAUDIBLE] have a second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: May I have-- CEO Johnson raised her hand. So there's some dialogue that needs to
happen there, and the two of you are free to do so. You're both recognized to handle that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. And thank you, Secretary
Nicholson, for your comments. Just a point of clarification, you indicated that OTP for light rail was 70%.
It's 77%. You indicated that 30% weren't getting to where they needed to go. That's actually 23%. I'm not
making excuses, but I think it's important that we actually use correct data as we make comments.
And then moving forward, I know that Director Larsen mentioned this, and then you in turn as well-basically, have qualified peer agencies. And I don't necessarily understand the aspect of peer. You
mentioned San Diego MTS. There's Sacramento Regional Transit. When we talk about peer agencies,
recognizing they don't have to run sweeper trains to keep their catenary wires warm so you can deliver
service, those agencies are in Southern California and Northern California, respectively.
So when we talk about peer agencies, we go forward, we need to qualify what we're indicating as a peer
relative to fleet size, operating environment, the various modalities. I think that's critically important
because peer has a multitude of definitions, and I think it's incumbent upon all of us to be aligned around
what that is. So thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair, for allowing me just to put forward my thoughts relative
to statements that have been made. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I dialogue back?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, briefly.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yes, you're right. I apologize. I was speaking off the cuff. We are at
77%. We were at 90-something percent before the issues that we've had,
I think we should have a conversation about what those on-time performances should be. I think we
should state each one explicitly in the goals rather than a percentage increase. And we can have that
conversation. But I would suggest that we need to have a very-- I think this needs to come out of here
with a ridership increase, and I'm happy to have that specific conversation now.
So I'd like to make a motion to amend the SMART goals to increase the percentage to 5%, the second
SMART goal, to increase the percentage to 5% for the fixed-route vehicle boardings instead of 3%. And
we can then obviously have a discussion specifically about that.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, I apologize, but not all of the committee members have spoken
on the primary subject. Do you mind waiting just a moment to put that motion forward so that Director
Guissinger may speak? Because I don't know what she would like to say about these goals and the
matter before us, as I requested at the beginning of the meeting.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I will happily defer to Director Guissinger.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, you're recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I see Ms. Johnson has raised her hand.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And I just wanted to other-- excuse me. I just wanted to point
out another critical element to manage everybody's expectations. Recognizing that one of our strategic
initiatives is state of good repair, or I should say, back to basics that focuses on state of good repair,
Secretary Nicholson made reference to on-time performance with light rail and what it used to be,
recognizing that this organization had $290 million in backlog as it relates to state of good repair because,
whether good, bad, or indifferent, there was a laser-like focus on building out the network and ensuring
that we had new rail lines that were operable.
Recognizing where we are, it's critically important that we focus on having our assets in a state of good
repair, so they will be available for decades to come. With that as a backdrop, that is significantly
important when we qualify comparisons and talk about what OTP used to be because OTP will be for
naught if, in fact, we don't have rail network that are in a state of good repair because it would prohibit us
from operating trains. So I think that's important, and it's nuanced. But it's more than relevant to the
discussion at hand. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for allowing me to inject that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I just dialogue back very quickly?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No. Director Guissinger is recognized currently.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. One of my questions goes to your point just a minute ago,
Ms. Johnson, which is the light rail numbers for on-time performance have dropped to 77% largely
because of the maintenance we're doing. So when you're saying you're going to increase it by 1.5%, how
does that fit with the maintenance? Do you expect to be continuing the same level of maintenance? I
mean, we could hit that number by dropping the maintenance amount, right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Guissinger. You hit the nail on the head.
Because recognizing where we are collectively, we still are doing track inspections. We are getting to a
place where we should have been, whether good, bad, or indifferent, as I said before. And I'm not placing
fault or blame because I own this coming in but recognizing I didn't know what I didn't know relative to
where we are as an organization.

For instance, our coping panel project that was something that should have occurred back in 2018 did not
get underway until, as you all know, until 2023 into 2024. We still have other elements as it relates to
phase two, phase three, and phase four in our original downtown segment of our light rail corridor that we
anticipate to be working on, i.e., either the summer or the fall. We will be apprising you accordingly,
recognizing that we have an active solicitation out on the street.
So we're not going to basically abandon our responsibility to keep our assets in a state of good repair.
And as we go through looking at visual inspections, using other mechanisms to ensure that the rail is in
an operable state, there are going to be some impacts because that's par for the course with the
transportation network. And that's taken into consideration as we put forward service plans and things of
that can account for regular PMs as we go forward. So thank you very much for the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it's a little hard to judge the 1.5% when we have so much maintenance going
on that's affecting what the on-time performance is right now because obviously, it could vary a little next
year. Why has bus on-time performance been dropping? And I know you made explained several
reasons that it has gone down. I mean, will those change? Will we be able to raise that? I know we
haven't split it out, but can we get that back up to 1.5% on bus as well? Do you see that happening?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And thank you, Director Guissinger, for
the question. So recognizing that our bus network does not have dedicated right-of-way, we are
traversing arterioles just as single occupant vehicles do. And in the primary area of our service being the
central business district here within the city and county of Denver, there's been a myriad of different
construction activities.
For those of you that may be familiar, there have been various treatments that have been done in
reference to sharrows, bollards, and things of like to provide protection for bicyclists. We have been
working with the city and county of Denver as well, recognizing that when we turn, our turning radius had
to be adjusted. And there were some elements that included detours as well with all the construction
happening around the Metro area.
That basically plays into our on-time performance and our ability to be able to meet time points, as
illustrated in our schedule. With that, going forward, we have been communicating with DOTI, and I call
them out specifically. And that's not to alienate any other part of the district. But when you think about the
vast majority of the bus routes, they are within Denver and the others are more or less freeway-running.
As we try to get to critical areas outside of Denver, those factor in.
We cannot project the unforeseen detours or accidents or things of the like. But this is predicated upon
what we know to be relative to the engagement we've had with the Department of Transportation and
infrastructure and any type of construction that may be ongoing as we move forward. And one critical
piece is the projected completion of the 16th Street corridor that should be done in and around Memorial
Day, which will create a throughfare all the way from Denver Union Station down to Civic Center. I hope
that addresses your question. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I might have a couple questions on the ridership numbers and the
service hours, but it sounds like there is an amendment coming. I would agree with Director Buzek that
there are several things out there that aren't amendments at this point. And maybe we should move
forward on those. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Catlin, you are next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I apologize, I had mentioned that I need to leave early, and
I'm pressing right now to meet a deadline to leave. I would prefer to take action on the original motion
prior to my departure, if that's possible. And then any amendments that would be put forth could come
before the whole Board.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I oppose that. I think this is the committee where we're supposed to make-- I was
told repeatedly by Board members of this committee, this is where we're supposed to make amendments
to these things. This is where we're supposed to get the work done. And so I think if we're going to take
that position, we should get the work done in committee. I respect you, Director Catlin. But if you-PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: This is where we're supposed to get this done.
PEGGY CATLIN: We are 15 minutes out from the end of the meeting, and I don't know if we have time to
address all of these amendments. But I will yield to the Chair. I apologize. I let him know in advance that I
needed to leave early, and I'm running up against that deadline.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I'm not a member of this body, and it would be
inappropriate for me to call a point of order. May I be recognized as a point of personal privilege?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. As a Director, you are recognized. Proceed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just wanted to note, and I know it's hard for us to get into the speed
of Robert's Rules, but one does wait for the Chair to be called on before they proceed or interrupt another
member. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. OK. Director Nicholson, I did promise we would come back. Are you
certain you want to make this motion? There is going to be another opportunity to do some more work
before this goes before the entire Board. It may be wise so we can collaborate together and make sure
everybody has the information before the Board takes action on this.
I would also like to remind you, I received a quick message from the Chair that perfection is the enemy of
good, and we cannot let that happen right now. We are on a tight deadline. So if you are willing to wait, I
am promising you I will make a commitment to you in committee that I will work with you to circulate the
information properly to all Board members so that we can have things done in proper order.
Any amendments, by the way, that anybody has considered should properly be sent to General Counsel
so that they may be shared with the entire Board and Debra Johnson and the language can be reviewed,
understood before it comes to the Board because we don't want surprises, and that is not how the Board
is to operate. So please make a decision at this moment.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Let me ask a question then because I think that it behooves us to present to the
public the amendments that are going to be considered in the Board packet, essentially, as amendments
in the Board packet so that people can see them, and, hey, what's this? What's it going to go on?

What is the process by which those amendments could be added to the Board packet for consideration
on the additional? So we would have on the agenda the original item and then amendment, amendment,
amendment, amendment. How do we do that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Kroll, I'm going to turn to you now, and I'm going to request, is it possible for us
to collect all of the amendment suggestions or goal suggestions so that we can add an appendix to this
committee's work and recommendation going forward so that everybody will have the opportunity to read
through those and understand them?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm sorry. Hold on. I asked a question.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, so, Committee Chair Guzman, typically, what's been the case when Directors have
wished to amend an action item coming forward, they'll distribute that proposed amendment to the Board
Office, and we would email those out. I recognize Director Nicholson's concern, Secretary Nicholson's
concern that those be included in the packet.
I don't have any objection to that other than there needs to be a deadline set by you, Committee Chair
Guzman. I would recommend no later than the end of the day on Thursday, January 23. We publish the
packet on Friday typically. The Executive Committee meeting will do its work earlier that day. And so we
would want to make sure that those proposed amendments as they will be presented are included in the
packet at that time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. I'm going to look to my Vice Chair for just a moment. I apologize. Vice Chair
Gutschenritter, end of day Wednesday, the 22nd, tomorrow.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, he said 23.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am saying Wednesday the 22nd. I have to choose the deadline so that there is
sufficient time to ensure that there are no spelling errors or any other issues so that we can hand that to
the Board Office and allow them to publish it so we don't look foolish. Mr. Kroll, who would be the
expected recipient of such communication? Is it myself? Is it General Counsel Snyder? Is it the Board
Office general email? Who is the appropriate person in this situation to receive that information?
JACK KROLL: I think it would be best to communicate with myself, with GM/CEO Johnson, since this
would be her performance that would be-- her goals that would be impacted. And it's always good to
include your General Counsel in matters such as this.
The one thing that I would ask members of this committee, this is I don't want to say necessarily
unprecedented. There has to be a mechanism by which the Board can propose these things, review
them, consider them, and then make decisions. But let us not have this be open season. I would ask that
serious amendments be forwarded and not necessarily those that are simply curiosities of Board
members.
I leave that to you all to determine what amendments may have merit to rise to this level, but
understanding that it will take the Board time to work through amendments during the open meeting on
Tuesday, January-- I'm not going to get the date exactly right. I believe it's the 28th, actually. You're not
going to be able to effectively move through 40 amendments.

You're not going to be able to effectively move through even 10. The smaller the number, the more
focused, the more likely that those will be able to be digested, considered appropriately by your
colleagues, and acted upon by the Board. So to recap, I would recommend sending any amendments
that have serious merit to the Board Office-- that would be myself-- the GM/CEO, and your General
Counsel, Melanie Snyder.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And myself. One Director.
JACK KROLL: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. OK, so tomorrow, end of business, serious considerations in writing to
those four people, please. Director Nicholson, I'll return to you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. One last thing. So with that deadline, I would ask as a member of the
Executive Committee that we include those amendments in the Executive Committee-- sorry, that they be
forwarded to the Executive Committee in case we want to specifically agendize any of those amendments
as amendments to the main motion so that instead of them just being in the packet-MICHAEL GUZMAN: That would be improper until a motion is made on the main subject, and the
Executive Committee does not handle performance issues. That is the purview of this committee or the
full Board as the final entity to receive that conversation and do that work.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I apologize. I was under the impression that as the folks who were setting the
agenda, we could amend the agenda. But, that's a technical matter. I just like the idea of being able to list
on the agenda what the amendments were that were going to be considered. Because like you said, if we
get 40 of them, it would be helpful for the Executive Committee to say these are the five or something that
we're going to deal with first and if anyone else wants to propose them. But it's really technical. It's not
actually-MICHAEL GUZMAN: The Chair would have purview over that. OK. So are we good for right now?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: If we're comfortable with it-- or I can defer to Director Catlin if she's still on.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: She has left the meeting.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: All right. In that case, I'll make a motion to accept-- sorry, to-- what's the right word?
Accept the recommended action? Pass the recommended action?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We have a motion and a second already. So it would be proper to call the question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry. Oh, yes. You're right. Sorry, my apologies. Then I'll pull a Director Buzek and
call the question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: If there's no further discussion on the item, it might be procedurally unnecessary to call the
question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, well, there you go.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. All right. Are there any no votes on this recommended action?
MATT LARSEN: What is the action?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I got to scroll back up. Give me one moment. We've talked a lot.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: It's the recommended action in the packet for today's meeting.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, sorry, I was looking for your specific words. The recommended action,
pursuant to the Board CEO framework adopted in January 2024, in alignment with the Board's
employment agreement with the GM/CEO, the proposed short-term SMART goals for the period of
January 28, 2025 through October 15, 2025 is on the table for action. We're accepting the recommended
action as presented on the agenda at this point. Are there any no votes?
MATT LARSEN: No votes to as to whether or not we want to pass forward these recommended actions?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If we are going to send the recommended action to the Executive Committee so it
may be agendized properly for the full Board meeting in order to meet the deadline of goals that must be
established, the framework with the change to the Likert scale, 0 to 4 on the questions, and we recognize
the changes to the salary adjustment percentages and the ratios of points to those percentages. It's not
just goals. It's all of this together, one package. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of clarification. With the change to the Likert scale, does that need to be a
motion and of itself?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, that's a technical matter just for the review process. I'm sending it as a
recommendation to the Executive Committee to agendize as part of this. But if we don't add all of this
complex together, all of this holistically together, we run out of time to do any of it.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I will call again. Are there any no votes on the motion on the table before us? On
the motion before us? Sorry. Are you raising your hand as a no, Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, sorry. My apologies.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Seeing no no votes, with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 members of the committee present,
this passes with six yes votes, one absent, and it moves to the Executive Committee to be agendized for
the full Board. Thank you for your participation. I know that this is a stretch and learning, so I appreciate it.
And thank you for keeping the meeting tight.
The next item we have is a recommended action-- or, excuse me, a discussion item. I apologize. I'm lost
in between two screens. Good thing I did my homework and tried to remember all of this. A discussion
item about our work plan. Two quick comments. One, it is a living document. This is not the final draft.
This is nowhere near the final draft.

But it's close, and it's got the structure of the work that we need to get done this year, including some key
meetings between this committee and the General Manager/CEO for performance review, as indicated
during the presentation. To that end, I know forms were sent out. Please fill them out properly so that we
can have a conversation about it. Mr. Kroll, I will defer to you to present this.
JACK KROLL: I will share some very quick remarks on this item. And then obviously, I think it would be
appropriate to see if GM/CEO Johnson had anything further to add. You all have sat through explanations
of how the work plan came to be in its current form at your previous committee meetings and the steps
you all will take to get these over the finish line. So I won't rehash those in their entirety.
But suffice to say that the form that we discussed last week at the Operations, Safety, and Security
Committee meeting, as well as the Finance and Planning Committee meeting, has been distributed to you
all. Please avail yourselves of the opportunities to submit forms with your objectives for the coming year.
We ask that those forms be submitted back to the Board Office no later than the end of business on
Monday, January 27.
That way, we can compile all of those and put them forward for your consideration at the retreat on that
coming Saturday, February 1. This committee will next meet again on February 3. So there's going to be
a tight turnaround to get this document updated. So my recommendation is that this committee wait until
March to approve its work plan to allow yourselves greater time to add to it.
One thing that I do want to highlight on this is the quarterly GM and CEO performance discussions to
occur in executive session. Those were added pursuant to the Eighth Amendment to the employment
agreement. And so those dates are listed here. And I would recommend that all Board members, not just
Performance Committee members, circle those dates in their calendars so that you may participate in that
conversation.
And then one thing to get your interest flowing, the Board briefing materials that you all receive on a
monthly basis are set to be discussed at next month's meeting. So that's just about 12 or so, 13 or so
days from now. So please take a look at the Board briefing documents. They're online on the website.
And consider what you might like to add, what you might like to see move out of that document.
And also keep in mind and perhaps have a broader discussion in your back pocket as to whether those
documents need to be continued to be published in their current form given the strong evolution and
continuing investment that is being made in the performance dashboard for the agency. And with that, I
have nothing further to add on the work plan at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. In reference to time, I would appreciate if you have any questions to reach out
to me directly either by email or by phone call as members of the committee so we can continue the work
on the work plan. I think all ideas will be received. We'll figure out what is the priority and what we need to
do and what we would like to do. And we will rank them accordingly and try and organize a plan that will
get the work done this year and get the right work done this year.
It's also my commitment-- and GM/CEO Johnson knows this-- that we will work together to make sure
that we are balancing our workloads so that there is not too much on any part of the year. The heaviest
work that this committee does is at the end of the year. Are there any other matters to discuss? Director
Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to make a notation of the previously referenced
point scale. However, I recognize that we are at or beyond time. So I will yield to you and just recognize
we can follow up via email.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, I think that would be best. And we can send that out to all members. That
way, [? we know ?] what we're talking about.
JOY ANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. Thank you, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right. The next Performance Committee meeting is scheduled for
Monday, February 3. I'm sorry. Vice Chair Gutschenritter.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. Yeah, I was just going to see if it's appropriate to-- in
an effort to limit the amount of amendments related to short-term goals, is it appropriate to say if it was
not discussed today on the call, it won't be accepted as a proposed amendment submitted to-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Unfortunately, that would be an inappropriate way to proceed. I think we can
consider everything at the Board meeting that comes up, but if we have a way to structure this in an
organized manner, it might be helpful to have that information, which is why I said the deadline is
tomorrow. End of business means 5:00 PM in my head, in writing.
The amendments to be sent to the four people that were mentioned-- General Counsel Snyder, the Board
Office, Jack Kroll, myself as the Committee Chair, and Debra Johnson as the General Manager/CEO-will help us ensure that everybody has opportunity to understand and digest what the amendments might
look like before they go to the full Board.
Then they can be shared out properly to everybody on the whole Board, all 15 members. And then it
would be the Board's determination as a body whether they would accept any further at that time. I do
understand what you're trying to do, which is to make this a process that is efficient, but unfortunately that
would violate the rules of procedure.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Just to Director Kroll, I would ask that those amendments be included in the
appendix or however you wanted to put it in the Board packet for Thursday so that we can take a look at
them if we want with the Executive Committee. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It is Executive Board Office Manager Kroll.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am a Director, and you are a Director, but we are elected to those positions, to be
clear. All right. Are there any other matters? Seeing none, I will announce again the next meeting is
scheduled Monday, February 3. Do I have a motion to adjourn?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movant. Thank you so much. Thank you for a good meeting. Have a
good afternoon. General Manager/CEO Johnson, we will follow up, OK? Thank you.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Evan Odelberg
RTD Board Office
Comments for Performance Committee: Short-Term Goals
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 6:56:33 AM
20250106_RTDBoard_Letter_GMCEOGoals.pdf

Hello,
I am a transit-rider and member of district A (before that I was a long time member of districts
I and M). I am unable to attend the 8:30 Zoom meeting with the Performance Committee
regarding RTD's short-term goals for 2025, but I would like to offer comments in this email.
I feel that RTD has lagged far behind peers in its post-COVID recovery, and, as such, needs
much more ambitious short-term goals than those proposed.
I support the goals proposed by Greater Denver Transit in the attached document. These goals
are much more ambitious than the current goals and, more importantly, set RTD up for longterm growth.
While ambitious, these goals are specific and attainable. I understand that increasing ridership
is easier said than done, but there are also some easy wins here: hiring a police chief, CTO,
and COO are no-brainers, and the goals include publishing documents like a Customer Bill of
Rights and CIP book that would go a long way in restoring the public's trust in RTD.
Modest short-term goals would be appropriate if RTD was operating at a level that makes
most metro Denverites happy. That is currently not the case. The post-COVID recovery has
been anemic. Denverites are hungry for better transit. We will only get there with more
ambitious short-term goals. I urge the Committee to reject the current short-term goals
proposal and adopt goals closer to Greater Denver Transit's proposal.
Thank you for your time and consideration,
Evan Odelberg
RTD District A

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

January 6th, 2025
RTD Board Members
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
GM & CEO Short-Term Goals
Dear RTD Directors,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit to the Board our position on the GM & CEO's
short-term goals for 2025. We see four essential and mandatory categories of goals that will determine the
agencys success in 2025: (1) Ridership, (2) Organizational Excellence, (3) Safety & Security, and (4)
Reliability and have therefore suggested goals below that fit in with these categories.
As a precursor, we would recommend the Board adjust the amount of points awarded for the successful
completion of short-term goals by increasing the allotted points from 36 to 48. In the context of the four goal
categories, this would mean 12 points per goal category achieved, and between 1 and 6 points per individual
goal, contingent on the number of goals present in each category.

1. Ridership (12 points)
Ridership Goal 1: Increase Ridership (6 points)
Without reductions to overall levels of service within communities or lowering fares, increase annual total
system ridership to 70M trips.
Background
This represents an ~8% increase over 2023 ridership which was at 62% of the 2019 pre-COVID levels, near
the very bottom of ridership in comparison to RTDs peer agencies. For that same year in 2023, Sacramento,
San Diego, Austin, Dallas, Houston, and Salt Lake City each exceeded 72% recovery, indicating RTD is both
lagging behind its peers, and potentially missing major network upgrades and service improvements needed to
bring back riders. This goal will be assessed on a pro-rata basis from February 1st, 2025 to October 31st,
2025.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Provide easy to understand, comprehensive maps of the system that include both rail and bus.
Complete a revamp of the service planning & scheduling process that will conform to SB24-230
statutory requirements before Q425 to ensure the most impactful implementation of new service
increases.
Collaborate with state, city, and municipal partners to launch redevelopment initiatives of station parking
lots as station destinations to encourage ToD development.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Ridership Goal 2: Customer Excellence Program (4 points)
By June 30th, 2025, introduce a Customer's Bill of Rights that sets expectations regarding safety, security,
service reliability, on-time performance, transfers, information provision, temporary service disruption
arrangements, cleanliness, customer service and management accountability.
Background
The rider experience needs to be central to RTD management decision making, and each of RTDs
strongest-performing peer agencies in terms of ridership recovery such as Seattles Sound Transit, Dallas-Fort
Worths DART, San Diegos MTS, and San Diegos NCTD each have Customer Excellence programs that are
leading the way in increasing ridership and customer satisfaction.

Ridership Goal 3: Increase Fare Revenue (1 point)
Without raising fares, increase fare revenue to $70M. This goal will be assessed on a pro-rata basis from
February 1st, 2025 to October 31st, 2025. Increased costs associated with expanded fare enforcement should
be deducted from revenue growth.
Background
RTDs farebox recovery ratio of 5.7% in 2023 is well below the 7.2% average of Western US peer agencies,
which has strained RTDs operational resources.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal



Produce strategies that focus on customer-friendly fare collection rather than solely enforcement
including mobile fare checking teams, fare gates, fare paid areas and the ability for staff to sell tickets
on the spot.
Fare enforcement decisions to be based on ensuring best fare revenue collection practices, not solely
crime deterrence.

Ridership Goal 4: Introduce Contactless Payment in Ticketing (1 point)
By October 31st, 2025, implement or have a completion date agreed with a supplier for contactless payments
(tap to pay) for all RTD rail, fixed-route bus, FlexRide and Access-on-Demand services.
Background
Contactless fare payment is a widely-adopted best practice that has expanded the accessibility and ease of
using transit across RTDs peer agencies, and is a major opportunity to expand ridership locally and increase
customer satisfaction.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

2. Organizational Excellence (12 pts)
Organizational Excellence Goal 1: Bolster Management Team (4 points)
By June 30th, 2025, publish a plan to respond to the 2024 Organizational Assessments findings relating to
how employees and departments can collaborate to better serve the agency.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Hire a Chief Operations Officer (COO) with transit leadership experience including bus route
modernization programs, rail operations, and major transit capital projects (or equivalent management
position).
Hire a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) with demonstrated leadership from managing advanced
information systems in the transit, freight rail, and/or logistics spaces (or equivalent management
position).
Hire a new Chief of Police.

Organizational Excellence Goal 2: Responsible Capital Projects (4 points)
By September 30th, 2025, publish a Capital Investment Program (CIP) book that includes a page dedicated to
each project and shows how approved / appropriated funds for that project will be spent per year throughout
the projects duration. The document should also clearly demonstrate how capital projects are prioritized in
accordance with the Targeted Asset Management Plan (TAMP).
Background
This visibility is vital for informing RTD Board actions as well as bolstering confidence among state and city
partners that RTD will improve the quality of its operations and the state of its property.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal



Hire an experienced capital program manager (CPM) (or equivalent management position).
Expand in-house construction (design/build) and maintenance expertise to more efficiently address
state-of-good-repair backlog.

Organizational Excellence Goal 3: Transparent Asset Management (4 points)
By October 31st, 2025, complete the cataloging of all of RTDs assets into a single asset management system.
Background
This current lack of consolidated detail is hampering the Boards ability to measure progress of the agency to
maintain a state of good repair across the RTD system.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal






Hire a chief technology officer (CTO) (or equivalent management position).
Hire a capital program manager (CPM) (or equivalent management position).
Introduce / review / update detailed asset inventory policies and procedures to catalog assets.
Introduce a staff training program on asset inventory / management.
Introduce a system where members of the public can report faults / issues (e.g. graffiti), that feeds
information into the same asset management system utilized by staff.

3. Safety & Security (12 pts)
Safety & Security Goal 1: Contact on Transit (6 points)
By October 31st, 2025, publish a plan for RTD Police, security officers, ambassadors, and customer service
supervisors to engage in daily contacting and circulation of trains, buses, stations, and waiting areas during the
full extent of RTD operating hours and ensuring the Respect the Ride Code of Conduct is being adhered to
by all.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Review existing security contract with Allied Universal outlining allocation of hours to time on transit
vehicles and coverage of the network, including during the early hours of the morning and late hours of
the evening.
Collect and analyze public feedback to identify and address both geographic and time-of-day gaps in
security coverage.
Follow up on the Respect the Ride code rollout with a compassionate rules education campaign.

Safety & Security Goal 2: Address Corrective Action Plans (6 points)
By October 31st, 2025, ensure that no Public Utilities Commission (PUC) mandated Corrective Action Plans
(CAPs), unless closed, has been in the same status for more than six months. Previous lack of progress has
garnered increased levels of scrutiny from state regulators which must be addressed swiftly.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal

 Support the 2025 Colorado Railroad Accident Investigation Report Confidentiality Bill.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 4

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

4. Reliability (12 pts)
Reliability Goal 1: Revamped Service Planning & Scheduling (6 points)
By June 30th, 2025, update and reissue the 2016 service planning document including stating how much
transit service an in-District community can expect for a particular housing density and available public facilities
(e.g. hospitals, schools, shopping malls). This visibility is needed for cities and municipalities to constructively
weigh in on RTDs service planning and scheduling proposals.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal






Publish clear guidance on how the System Optimization Plans proposals will be prioritized for
implementation.
Carry out a review of service planning and scheduling IT infrastructure, identify shortcomings and
opportunities for modernization.
Carry out a review of how timed transfers are assessed and planned in the District.
For the September 2025 service changes, publish draft proposed schedules at least 90 days in
advance, in time for public engagement.
Publish preliminary schedules for all transit routes impacted during the Service Changes process in
advance of Board Approval for public review. Every train and fixed-route bus must run to a publicly
accessible and accurate schedule.

Reliability Goal 2: Represented Headcount (6 points)
Goal
By October 31st, 2025, implement or have a completion date agreed with a supplier for a new online-based
route bidding system for operators that is capable of planning meal and bathroom breaks into operators
runboards. The system should offer users an easy way to arrange shift swaps and emergency replacements.
The current pen & paper approach is vastly outdated and is exacerbating the lack of flexibility that is cited as
core to RTDs operator retention challenges.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal


Update the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) as appropriate.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 5

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

June Churchill

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 6

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Edwin Clark-Silva
RTD Board Office
2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals - Comments
Monday, January 20, 2025 2:25:35 PM

Greetings RTD Board,
My name is Edwin and I live in Boulder (District O). Today, I would like to comment about
the 2025 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals.
Goal 1: It is not clear the time period this goal will be measured over. If there is not a
specified beginning and ending time it will be hard to determine if this goal is achieved.
Goal 2: I would like to see year-over-year fixed route vehicle boardings increase 6%. As
RTD's ridership recovery has lagged far behind peer transit agencies and this number better
aligns with the 2025 budget increases.
Goal 3: I like this goal!
Thank you board members and GM-CEO Johnson for your work. I appreciate the
opportunity to share my thoughts.
Best,
Edwin Clark-Silva

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Joe Meyer
RTD Board Office; Jack Kroll
Performance Committee Meeting Public Comment 1/21/2025
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 8:49:19 AM

Good morning Director Guzman, members of the performance committee, and Mr. Kroll,
I would like to submit the following comment regarding the proposed GM-CEO's short term
goals. I made verbal public comment but would like to use this written comment to address
points that I was unable to get to in the allotted 90 seconds.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed GM/CEO short term goals today.
My name is Joe Meyer and I am a district L resident and involved with the Citizens Advisory
Committee and Greater Denver Transit.
I am happy to see that the three proposed goals show that this committee is prioritizing issues
that effect riders, and the inclusion of easily measurable and reportable metrics is welcome.
This is absolutely a step in the right direction, and I look forward to this boards efforts in
rebuilding rider experience and system performance. I would however like to urge this
committee to think more ambitiously, set more aggressive targets, and show riders, employees,
and taxpayers that you are serious about meaningfully pursuing continued improvements in
RTDs performance.
Increasing light rail service availability to 96% by the end of September is achievable and
represents an improvement over today, but I would like to see this coupled with a commitment
not to cut service frequency or service hours to achieve this. Reducing the number of trips
must not be considered an appropriate solution to increasing service availability metrics.
On-time performance must be improved far beyond the proposed 1.5%. Commuter rail already
has great on-time performance and should not be combined with light rail for this metric, as it
would mask the real improvements needed to light rail. Bus and light rail are showing on-time
performance of around 80% or less throughout 2024. Light rail on-time performance dropped
by 30 percentage points from March to October  a 1.5% improvement is laughably
unambitious compared to that, and does not get anywhere close to turning around that
performance! Yes, meaningful improvements here require resources and effort, but that is the
point of these goals  to help shape how the agency allocates resources and effort! I propose
that all modes be improved to 85% or better on-time performance, with continued increases on
top of this in subsequent years. Although bus performance is subject to many factors outside
of RTDs control, targeted upgrades to bus infrastructure and coordination with local
governments can achieve this. Some of the route splits proposed in the SOP are also likely to
have meaningful impacts on on-time performance. Please go beyond paltry 1.5%
improvements and show the riders that you understand that their time is valuable.
Similarly, a 3% YoY growth in ridership is nowhere near ambitious enough. Revenue service
hours are planned to increase by slightly more than 3% from 2024 to 2025, so a 3% ridership
growth target implies to me no improvement in service quality or customer experience  it
simply reflects a proportional growth relative to service hours. My read of RTDs operating
budget, excluding Colfax BRT grants, is an increase of about 9% from 2024 to 2025. Taking 3
percentage points out of that to account for inflation over the same time period suggests that
we are paying about 6% more for service in 2025, and I would argue that we should target at

least the same amount of ridership growth. Greater Denver Transit proposes a target of 70
million boardings, which would be slightly over this 6% number and puts us on track to start
recovering ridership lost during covid and during this most recent summer of major service
disruptions. RTD currently lags far behind peer agencies in post-covid ridership recovery,
comparing 2023 ridership to 2019. Most peer agencies and regions have by now exceeded
70% and many are approaching 80% of their 2019 ridership levels, with RTD lagging behind
at just over 60%. A 3% YoY increase means we will only fall further behind our peer cities
performance  were ten percentage points behind Dallas, far behind San Diego, and the only
agency were far ahead of is St Louis, where population has been declining for years. Its time
to stop blaming work-from-home and time to start getting ambitious about bringing back
ridership. Its going to take creativity, effort, and dedication but it is possible- a target of 70
million boardings is very much achievable, shows a willingness to truly improve our systems
performance, and will lay the groundwork for continued increases each year.
I am also happy to see a goal focused on safety and security, however a 4% increase in survey
responses is neither ambitious nor meaningful. To get more ambitious and serious about safety
and security, this goal should instead focus on measuring contacts made with RTD vehicles by
security and support staff (70 boardings per day), along with increases in fare collection and
enforcement to increase fare revenue to $70mm. Both of these create measurable metrics with
more direct impacts on customer perceptions of safety.
The voters and riders need to see ambition, need to see meaningful improvement, need to see a
board that shows they care about pushing this agency to achieve its full potential. These goals
are the right time to start.
Thank you, and please do not hesitate to reach out for followup, questions, or comments.
-Joe Meyer

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Alex Landry
RTD Board Office
Public Comment for 2025 Short Term Goals
Monday, January 20, 2025 2:19:27 PM

Hello,

I would like to leave a public comment and feedback for the 2025 short term goals for RTD in
2025

As a light rail user who has been critically affected by the southeast corridor maintenance, I do
not believe that the increase in RTD on-time performance of 1.5% goes far enough, even as a
short-term goal. I believe a higher and stricter standard should be used for this metric.
Considering this metric is averaged across bus, light rail, and commuter rail, this metric can be
met simply by increasing performance in one mode of transportation rather than boosting all
three. Additionally, since the slowdowns and maintenance that impacts service reliability of
the light rail is dictated by RTD itself and can be planned around, the 1.5% goal does not seem
to be a meaningful increase. I am afraid simply adjusting the schedule or improving only bus
service will allow this goal to be met. Finally, the current impacts along the rail are not
projected to last until September 2025, meaning that if these projects are completed in the next
6 months, this 1.5% increase will most likely be met with little to no intervention from RTD
leadership or Debra Johnson. I believe a higher standard should be used, and that RTD should
set a more aggressive goal for itself. One out of every five light rail trains are not arriving on
time, and this poor standard would allow this to continue for months, affecting ridership,
revenue, and the publics perception of RTD after it approved millions of taxpayer dollars for
the agency.

Thank you,
Alexander Landry

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Michael Guzman
RTD Board Office
Fw: Performance Committee
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 12:17:51 PM

I just saw this. I'm forwarding immediately.
Michael Guzman
Director District C
Board of Directors
he|him
c. 720.252.4961
f. 303.299.2312
Michael.Guzman@rtd-denver.com
www.rtd-denver.com
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202
From: Allen Cowgill <allencowgill@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, January 20, 2025 11:18:55 PM
To: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Performance Committee

Hi Director GuzmanThank you for your service on the RTD Board.
I was writing you tonight to encourage that RTD have more aggressive goals regarding on
time performance and increasing ridership. I saw the goals proposed for the CEO and they
seem like a ridiculously low bar to set. We should be setting high standards for our riders, and
this feels more like an easy way to give the CEO a full bonus as opposed to focusing on riders.
This article in Westword the other day shares quite the hardships that riders have been dealing
with. https://www.westword.com/news/denver-woman-wakes-up-at-415-to-commute-late-rtdarrivals-23100321
Thank you for your consideration and again thank you for your service on the board.
Regards,
Allen
Allen Cowgill

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Ryan Carter
RTD Board Office
Goals
Sunday, January 19, 2025 7:48:10 PM

Dear RTD Board,
These goals will not increase ridership unless safety is increased. I used to love taking the light
rail to/from Arvada to Denver, Union Station, and DIA until the trains became populated with
homeless, drug use, mentally ill outbursts, gang activity, etc. I saw many assaults, robberies,
and unsafe events before I stopped taking trains altogether in 2021. Ridership will continue to
decline until the security is addressed, no matter how many other improvements are made. I
would gladly pay more per ticket to have an increased security presence on the trains.
Thank you,
Ryan Carter

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Alex Landry
RTD Board Office
Public Comment for 2025 Short Term Goals
Monday, January 20, 2025 2:19:27 PM

Hello,

I would like to leave a public comment and feedback for the 2025 short term goals for RTD in
2025

As a light rail user who has been critically affected by the southeast corridor maintenance, I do
not believe that the increase in RTD on-time performance of 1.5% goes far enough, even as a
short-term goal. I believe a higher and stricter standard should be used for this metric.
Considering this metric is averaged across bus, light rail, and commuter rail, this metric can be
met simply by increasing performance in one mode of transportation rather than boosting all
three. Additionally, since the slowdowns and maintenance that impacts service reliability of
the light rail is dictated by RTD itself and can be planned around, the 1.5% goal does not seem
to be a meaningful increase. I am afraid simply adjusting the schedule or improving only bus
service will allow this goal to be met. Finally, the current impacts along the rail are not
projected to last until September 2025, meaning that if these projects are completed in the next
6 months, this 1.5% increase will most likely be met with little to no intervention from RTD
leadership or Debra Johnson. I believe a higher standard should be used, and that RTD should
set a more aggressive goal for itself. One out of every five light rail trains are not arriving on
time, and this poor standard would allow this to continue for months, affecting ridership,
revenue, and the publics perception of RTD after it approved millions of taxpayer dollars for
the agency.

Thank you,
Alexander Landry

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Michael Guzman
RTD Board Office
Fw: Performance Committee
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 12:17:51 PM

I just saw this. I'm forwarding immediately.
Michael Guzman
Director District C
Board of Directors
he|him
c. 720.252.4961
f. 303.299.2312
Michael.Guzman@rtd-denver.com
www.rtd-denver.com
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, BLK-36
Denver, CO 80202
From: Allen Cowgill
Sent: Monday, January 20, 2025 11:18:55 PM
To: Michael Guzman <Michael.Guzman@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Performance Committee

Hi Director GuzmanThank you for your service on the RTD Board.
I was writing you tonight to encourage that RTD have more aggressive goals regarding on
time performance and increasing ridership. I saw the goals proposed for the CEO and they
seem like a ridiculously low bar to set. We should be setting high standards for our riders, and
this feels more like an easy way to give the CEO a full bonus as opposed to focusing on riders.
This article in Westword the other day shares quite the hardships that riders have been dealing
with. https://www.westword.com/news/denver-woman-wakes-up-at-415-to-commute-late-rtdarrivals-23100321
Thank you for your consideration and again thank you for your service on the board.
Regards,
Allen
Allen Cowgill

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Edwin Clark-Silva
RTD Board Office
2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals - Comments
Monday, January 20, 2025 2:25:35 PM

Greetings RTD Board,
My name is Edwin and I live in Boulder (District O). Today, I would like to comment about
the 2025 2025 GM-CEO Short-term Goals.
Goal 1: It is not clear the time period this goal will be measured over. If there is not a
specified beginning and ending time it will be hard to determine if this goal is achieved.
Goal 2: I would like to see year-over-year fixed route vehicle boardings increase 6%. As
RTD's ridership recovery has lagged far behind peer transit agencies and this number better
aligns with the 2025 budget increases.
Goal 3: I like this goal!
Thank you board members and GM-CEO Johnson for your work. I appreciate the
opportunity to share my thoughts.
Best,
Edwin Clark-Silva

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Evan Odelberg
RTD Board Office
Comments for Performance Committee: Short-Term Goals
Tuesday, January 21, 2025 6:56:33 AM
20250106_RTDBoard_Letter_GMCEOGoals.pdf

Hello,
I am a transit-rider and member of district A (before that I was a long time member of districts
I and M). I am unable to attend the 8:30 Zoom meeting with the Performance Committee
regarding RTD's short-term goals for 2025, but I would like to offer comments in this email.
I feel that RTD has lagged far behind peers in its post-COVID recovery, and, as such, needs
much more ambitious short-term goals than those proposed.
I support the goals proposed by Greater Denver Transit in the attached document. These goals
are much more ambitious than the current goals and, more importantly, set RTD up for longterm growth.
While ambitious, these goals are specific and attainable. I understand that increasing ridership
is easier said than done, but there are also some easy wins here: hiring a police chief, CTO,
and COO are no-brainers, and the goals include publishing documents like a Customer Bill of
Rights and CIP book that would go a long way in restoring the public's trust in RTD.
Modest short-term goals would be appropriate if RTD was operating at a level that makes
most metro Denverites happy. That is currently not the case. The post-COVID recovery has
been anemic. Denverites are hungry for better transit. We will only get there with more
ambitious short-term goals. I urge the Committee to reject the current short-term goals
proposal and adopt goals closer to Greater Denver Transit's proposal.
Thank you for your time and consideration,
Evan Odelberg
RTD District A

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

January 6th, 2025
RTD Board Members
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
GM & CEO Short-Term Goals
Dear RTD Directors,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit to the Board our position on the GM & CEO's
short-term goals for 2025. We see four essential and mandatory categories of goals that will determine the
agencys success in 2025: (1) Ridership, (2) Organizational Excellence, (3) Safety & Security, and (4)
Reliability and have therefore suggested goals below that fit in with these categories.
As a precursor, we would recommend the Board adjust the amount of points awarded for the successful
completion of short-term goals by increasing the allotted points from 36 to 48. In the context of the four goal
categories, this would mean 12 points per goal category achieved, and between 1 and 6 points per individual
goal, contingent on the number of goals present in each category.

1. Ridership (12 points)
Ridership Goal 1: Increase Ridership (6 points)
Without reductions to overall levels of service within communities or lowering fares, increase annual total
system ridership to 70M trips.
Background
This represents an ~8% increase over 2023 ridership which was at 62% of the 2019 pre-COVID levels, near
the very bottom of ridership in comparison to RTDs peer agencies. For that same year in 2023, Sacramento,
San Diego, Austin, Dallas, Houston, and Salt Lake City each exceeded 72% recovery, indicating RTD is both
lagging behind its peers, and potentially missing major network upgrades and service improvements needed to
bring back riders. This goal will be assessed on a pro-rata basis from February 1st, 2025 to October 31st,
2025.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Provide easy to understand, comprehensive maps of the system that include both rail and bus.
Complete a revamp of the service planning & scheduling process that will conform to SB24-230
statutory requirements before Q425 to ensure the most impactful implementation of new service
increases.
Collaborate with state, city, and municipal partners to launch redevelopment initiatives of station parking
lots as station destinations to encourage ToD development.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Ridership Goal 2: Customer Excellence Program (4 points)
By June 30th, 2025, introduce a Customer's Bill of Rights that sets expectations regarding safety, security,
service reliability, on-time performance, transfers, information provision, temporary service disruption
arrangements, cleanliness, customer service and management accountability.
Background
The rider experience needs to be central to RTD management decision making, and each of RTDs
strongest-performing peer agencies in terms of ridership recovery such as Seattles Sound Transit, Dallas-Fort
Worths DART, San Diegos MTS, and San Diegos NCTD each have Customer Excellence programs that are
leading the way in increasing ridership and customer satisfaction.

Ridership Goal 3: Increase Fare Revenue (1 point)
Without raising fares, increase fare revenue to $70M. This goal will be assessed on a pro-rata basis from
February 1st, 2025 to October 31st, 2025. Increased costs associated with expanded fare enforcement should
be deducted from revenue growth.
Background
RTDs farebox recovery ratio of 5.7% in 2023 is well below the 7.2% average of Western US peer agencies,
which has strained RTDs operational resources.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal



Produce strategies that focus on customer-friendly fare collection rather than solely enforcement
including mobile fare checking teams, fare gates, fare paid areas and the ability for staff to sell tickets
on the spot.
Fare enforcement decisions to be based on ensuring best fare revenue collection practices, not solely
crime deterrence.

Ridership Goal 4: Introduce Contactless Payment in Ticketing (1 point)
By October 31st, 2025, implement or have a completion date agreed with a supplier for contactless payments
(tap to pay) for all RTD rail, fixed-route bus, FlexRide and Access-on-Demand services.
Background
Contactless fare payment is a widely-adopted best practice that has expanded the accessibility and ease of
using transit across RTDs peer agencies, and is a major opportunity to expand ridership locally and increase
customer satisfaction.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

2. Organizational Excellence (12 pts)
Organizational Excellence Goal 1: Bolster Management Team (4 points)
By June 30th, 2025, publish a plan to respond to the 2024 Organizational Assessments findings relating to
how employees and departments can collaborate to better serve the agency.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Hire a Chief Operations Officer (COO) with transit leadership experience including bus route
modernization programs, rail operations, and major transit capital projects (or equivalent management
position).
Hire a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) with demonstrated leadership from managing advanced
information systems in the transit, freight rail, and/or logistics spaces (or equivalent management
position).
Hire a new Chief of Police.

Organizational Excellence Goal 2: Responsible Capital Projects (4 points)
By September 30th, 2025, publish a Capital Investment Program (CIP) book that includes a page dedicated to
each project and shows how approved / appropriated funds for that project will be spent per year throughout
the projects duration. The document should also clearly demonstrate how capital projects are prioritized in
accordance with the Targeted Asset Management Plan (TAMP).
Background
This visibility is vital for informing RTD Board actions as well as bolstering confidence among state and city
partners that RTD will improve the quality of its operations and the state of its property.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal



Hire an experienced capital program manager (CPM) (or equivalent management position).
Expand in-house construction (design/build) and maintenance expertise to more efficiently address
state-of-good-repair backlog.

Organizational Excellence Goal 3: Transparent Asset Management (4 points)
By October 31st, 2025, complete the cataloging of all of RTDs assets into a single asset management system.
Background
This current lack of consolidated detail is hampering the Boards ability to measure progress of the agency to
maintain a state of good repair across the RTD system.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal






Hire a chief technology officer (CTO) (or equivalent management position).
Hire a capital program manager (CPM) (or equivalent management position).
Introduce / review / update detailed asset inventory policies and procedures to catalog assets.
Introduce a staff training program on asset inventory / management.
Introduce a system where members of the public can report faults / issues (e.g. graffiti), that feeds
information into the same asset management system utilized by staff.

3. Safety & Security (12 pts)
Safety & Security Goal 1: Contact on Transit (6 points)
By October 31st, 2025, publish a plan for RTD Police, security officers, ambassadors, and customer service
supervisors to engage in daily contacting and circulation of trains, buses, stations, and waiting areas during the
full extent of RTD operating hours and ensuring the Respect the Ride Code of Conduct is being adhered to
by all.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal




Review existing security contract with Allied Universal outlining allocation of hours to time on transit
vehicles and coverage of the network, including during the early hours of the morning and late hours of
the evening.
Collect and analyze public feedback to identify and address both geographic and time-of-day gaps in
security coverage.
Follow up on the Respect the Ride code rollout with a compassionate rules education campaign.

Safety & Security Goal 2: Address Corrective Action Plans (6 points)
By October 31st, 2025, ensure that no Public Utilities Commission (PUC) mandated Corrective Action Plans
(CAPs), unless closed, has been in the same status for more than six months. Previous lack of progress has
garnered increased levels of scrutiny from state regulators which must be addressed swiftly.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal

 Support the 2025 Colorado Railroad Accident Investigation Report Confidentiality Bill.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 4

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

4. Reliability (12 pts)
Reliability Goal 1: Revamped Service Planning & Scheduling (6 points)
By June 30th, 2025, update and reissue the 2016 service planning document including stating how much
transit service an in-District community can expect for a particular housing density and available public facilities
(e.g. hospitals, schools, shopping malls). This visibility is needed for cities and municipalities to constructively
weigh in on RTDs service planning and scheduling proposals.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal






Publish clear guidance on how the System Optimization Plans proposals will be prioritized for
implementation.
Carry out a review of service planning and scheduling IT infrastructure, identify shortcomings and
opportunities for modernization.
Carry out a review of how timed transfers are assessed and planned in the District.
For the September 2025 service changes, publish draft proposed schedules at least 90 days in
advance, in time for public engagement.
Publish preliminary schedules for all transit routes impacted during the Service Changes process in
advance of Board Approval for public review. Every train and fixed-route bus must run to a publicly
accessible and accurate schedule.

Reliability Goal 2: Represented Headcount (6 points)
Goal
By October 31st, 2025, implement or have a completion date agreed with a supplier for a new online-based
route bidding system for operators that is capable of planning meal and bathroom breaks into operators
runboards. The system should offer users an easy way to arrange shift swaps and emergency replacements.
The current pen & paper approach is vastly outdated and is exacerbating the lack of flexibility that is cited as
core to RTDs operator retention challenges.
Suggested Actions to Achieve Goal


Update the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) as appropriate.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 5

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

June Churchill

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 6

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Ryan Carter
RTD Board Office
Goals
Sunday, January 19, 2025 7:48:10 PM

Dear RTD Board,
These goals will not increase ridership unless safety is increased. I used to love taking the light
rail to/from Arvada to Denver, Union Station, and DIA until the trains became populated with
homeless, drug use, mentally ill outbursts, gang activity, etc. I saw many assaults, robberies,
and unsafe events before I stopped taking trains altogether in 2021. Ridership will continue to
decline until the security is addressed, no matter how many other improvements are made. I
would gladly pay more per ticket to have an increased security presence on the trains.
Thank you,
Ryan Carter

