Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

March 22, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March
22, 2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Director Cohen and Bagley. Directors Malpiede
and Tayer participated via phone.
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:

Chair Kemp

Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Call to Order:

Acting Chair Pro Tem, 2nd Vice Chair Cohen
called the meeting to order at 12:02 p.m.

Approval of March Board Agenda
General Manager Washington introduced this item. Seeing there were no
major concerns, Chair Pro Tem Cohen asked for a motion to move the March
agenda before the full Board for approval on 3/27/12
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
the March Board Meeting Agenda before
the full Board at the regular Board
meeting on 3/27/12.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Director Bagley explained why he had given a “no” vote in the FasTracks
Committee meeting on the Northwest Corridor item. The reason was so this
could have final discussion in the Board meeting where he intends to provide
his comments.


Unanimous Consent

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6


Amendment to Lease Agreement for Office Space at Civic Center
Plaza – 1560 Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000 and
1075
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to amend and
extend the lease agreement by and between the Regional
Transportation District and CCP/MS SSIII Denver Post Tower Property
Owner, LLC for office space in Suites 510, 605, 610 and 700 on the
5th, 6th and 7th floors of the building commonly known as Civic Center
Plaza. This is for the co-location of Planning and Capital Programs
personnel and program management consulting services related to the
planning and implementation of the FasTracks program as wells as
Capital Programs, Planning and IT personnel and Suites 1000 and
1075 on the 10th floor for the housing of Paratransit Services and
Competitive Services, Transportation Contracts for a period of seven
(7) years, expiring October 31, 2019. Base rent of $16.50 per sq. ft.
will increase annually by $0.50 concluding with an annual base rent
in the final year of November 1, 2018 through October 31, 2019 of
$19.50 per sq. ft.
 Office Space Lease Agreement – Civic Center Plaza
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to enter into a
Lease Agreement for 7,780 square feet of office space on the 10 th
floor, Suite 1099, of the Civic Center Plaza located at 1560
Broadway for a minimum period of five years. Base rent of $16.00
per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50 concluding with an annual
base rent in the final year 2017 of $18.00 per sq. ft.
 Commit $750,000 for I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve a commitment of
$250,000 per year for three years toward the local match for CDOT’s
I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension. This will be funded in future
base system budgets through RTD operational savings that would
accrue as a result of the project



Recommended Action
 Grant of Permanent Easement for Roof Overhang over RTD light rail
tracks at the intersection of 16 th Street and the consolidated freight
main line, City and County of Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to convey a permanent
easement allowing for the roof overhang of the adjacent DaVita
Building containing approximately 462 square feet to encroach into

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
property owned by RTD near the intersection over the light rail tracks
at 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City and County
of Denver, Colorado.
 Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the General Manager enter into a contract with the Union Station
Alliance (USA) for $5 million for the purposes of designing and
constructing renovations to the Denver Union Station (DUS) historic
building in advance of RTD and USA signing a lease. The purpose of
this early work agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is relocated back
into DUS to coincide with the opening of the new commuter rail
terminal and termination of the lease at Amtrak’s temporary facility.
The source of funds for the $5 million is a Colorado Department of
Transportation FASTER grant and RTD's associated local match to
the grant which was awarded to RTD in early 2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board authorize a transfer of $5 million from
unrestricted net assets to fund this contract. The unrestricted net
assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended Budget by the
proceeds of the FASTER grant.
 2012 Annual Program Evaluation – Decision on Northwest Corridor
Implementation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve a hybrid of the options previously
presented for the Northwest Corridor, which incorporates, and is in
collaboration with stakeholder feedback, input and elements from the
other options. Approval of this option by the RTD Board of Directors
will allow staff to include these assumptions in the 2012 financial
plan that will then be submitted to DRCOG for review as part of the
SB 208 process. The RTD Board of Directors does not have the
authority to unilaterally change the use of the tax and debt authorized
for the FasTracks plan that was approved by the voters in 2004. If
the RTD Board of Directors chooses to proceed with a sales and use
tax election in 2012, an amended plan will be referenced as part of
the ballot question. Approval of the ballot measure will include
approval of the plan amendment. If the ballot measure fails, the 2004
plan will remain unchanged.
The recommended option assumes a successful sales and use tax
election in 2012, and would include the following:

No schedule or cost impacts for any other partially-funded
corridor projects as compared to the 2011 Annual Program Evaluation
(APE)

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6

Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its
entirety from Church Ranch to Longmont as funding becomes
available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax. Also, with the full
understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all alternate sources
of funding and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as soon as
possible.
Funding is anticipated to be available to initiate
construction and begin revenue service during the period of 2028 –
2034
o

This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for
Northwest Rail, inflating the cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE)
dollars, and testing the financial model to determine when
RTD has the financial capacity to expend the funds needed to
complete the rail line


A combination of an incremental segment of diesel-multiple
unit (DMU) commuter rail in the Northwest Corridor Area with
revenue service commencing at a point between 2020 - 2022 and a
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020, as depicted in Figure 1
below, that will provide comprehensive, immediate relief/mobility
improvements for the region
o

Including funding for an Environmental Assessment or
Environmental Impact Statement that will be required prior to
finalizing an exact BRT alignment.


Extension of the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver
Union Station (DUS) to the Church Ranch Station to provide bidirectional peak period service for commuters connecting to/from
DUS. Extending rail to Church Ranch would provide approximately 12
of the 41 miles of commuter rail for the Northwest Corridor (30% of
the complete corridor length), and will allow RTD to continue moving
forward with our ultimate vision of building rail to Longmont


Based on conservative estimates of cost, it is currently
anticipated that funding would be available to complete this
rail segment with revenue service commencing at a point
between 2020 - 2022


RTD’s remaining financial commitment to Phase 2 of the US
36 Corridor BRT project, $82 million (YOE), would be available in
2014 and 2015

In addition to the $82 million (YOE) remaining for the US 36
Corridor BRT project, $894.6 million (YOE) would be provided to
expand the BRT system in the Northwest Corridor area by 2020. This
financial cap (including prior expenditures) was based on last year’s
Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and was chosen to reflect the level
of capital funding available to complete the FasTracks program by
2020

Consistent BRT service levels, as identified through the SB
208 process and subsequent environmental analyses, until five years

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
after opening of the full BRT system – after which time all routes
would be required to meet service standards. RTD will also increase
service during or after this five year period, according to service
criteria, if ridership levels increase to such levels where they dictate
more BRT service in the corridor.
 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption and Approval of
2011 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize a financial plan that
assumes an election in November, 2012 with a new sales and use
tax increase of 0.4% commencing in January, 2013. This
financial plan incorporates all of the assumptions of the “hybrid”
option presented to the RTD Board of Directors on March 5,
2012, and updated on March 20, 2012, including:
 Extending the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver
Union Station (DUS) to the Church Ranch Station with revenue
service commencing at a point between 2020 - 2022 to provide
bi-directional peak service for commuters connecting to/from
DUS;
 Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its
entirety from Church Ranch to Longmont as funding becomes
available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax. Also, with
the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all
alternate sources of funding and corridor savings to complete
the rail vision as soon as possible. Funding is anticipated to be
available to initiate construction and begin revenue service
during the period of 2028 – 2034;


This timeframe is based on taking the remaining
cost for Northwest Rail, inflating the cost to yearof-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing
the
financial model to determine when RTD has the
financial capacity to expend the funds needed to
complete the rail line;

 Building a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020 that will
provide cost effective, immediate relief/mobility improvements for
the Northwest Corridor.
The opening day (2022) cost for the FasTracks program under
this staff recommendation is $7.4 billion.
It is further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors
approve submittal of the RTD 2011 Annual Report on
FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 22, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which
have been approved by the Board during the last year.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this
time by the Board of Directors to place a sales and use tax
increase on the ballot, but it preserves the capability for the RTD
Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential
scenarios for completion of the FasTracks program.
III. Other Matters
Chair Pro Tem Cohen asked if there were any items to be discussed at
Executive Session. Director Tayer indicated the Board may want to discuss
contract negotiations as it relates to the USA Denver Union Station. The
Committee determined they would have an executive session at the next
P&D meeting in April.
General Manager Washington announced they were tugging the first LRT
train for West Corridor.
V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:15 p.m.

