Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, June 17, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 18, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on June 17, 2010 at
p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair McMullen, Directors Bagley, Busck, Daly, James,
Malpiede, Tayer, Tobiassen
Director Brohl, Christopher, Cohen, Martinez, O’Boyle, and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin
Magee, Paula Perdue, Scott Roberts, Pranaya Shrestha, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Jane Donovan
****
Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:20 p.m.

Call to Order
I.

Recommended Actions:


FasTracks Fare Collection Contract Award to Scheidt & Bachmann USA,
Inc. – Rick Clarke introduced this action item. Staff has come up with an
innovative approach for this contract by ordering along with another
transit agency. This contract will be awarded as FasTracks lines come
into operation.
Director Daly wanted to know if the technology would be compatible with
smart card technology. At this time, the machines will not have smart
card capability but it is something that can be added. Also we have to
replace the existing TVMs on the other corridors. Scheidt & Bachmann
makes a credit card only machine and we have some in this order so we
can mix and match them at our stations. Credit card only machines require

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, June 17, 2010
Page 2
less maintenance.
Director Tobiassen is glad to hear that smart cards and credit cards are
being considered.
Director Bagley would like to see a cost estimate of what it would take to
upgrade the systems on the Southwest and Southeast corridors.
Rick Clarke added that the TVMs on the Southwest corridor are ten years
old which is at the end of their useful life.
Mr. Abel added that there will be a proposal coming to the Committee in
the third quarter of 2010 to upgrade the TVMs on the Southeast corridor
and then later there will be a proposal for upgrading the Southwest
corridor.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for the FasTracks Fare
Collection Project (Ticket Vending Machines) to Scheidt & Bachmann
USA, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $14,000,000.00. Funding for this
project is included in each FasTracks corridor’s budget.

MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 22,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Recommendation for Contract with the Union Pacific Railroad for Advance
Relocation Work In the Vicinity of Denver Union Station
- Marla Lien
introduced this item to the Committee. This has been in negotiations since
2007. This is an advance contract before right of way negotiations on the
East Corridor are complete. The work needs to begin now so as not to
hamper the schedule for DUS.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract
with the Union Pacific Railroad (UP) for reimbursement of design, material
acquisition and construction necessary to relocate UP tracks in the vicinity of

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, June 17, 2010
Page 3
Denver Union Station (DUS), in an amount not to exceed $600,000. This
work in advance of a comprehensive agreement for relocation of UP on the
East Corridor is necessary due to construction at DUS that is impacting the
adjacent UP property. Funding for this relocation is included in the 2010
Adopted Budget for the East Corridor project.

MOTION:

Director Busck made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 22,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

REVISION TO RESOLUTION NO. 6, Series of 2010 – Ms. Lien introduced this
item. The Board passed Resolution No. 6 which authorized the RIFIA/TIFIA
loan agreements execution. Last week the USDOT reformatted the trust
document to become more of a Master Trust Indenture, the changes to the
resolution give specific authorization to sign a master trust indenture. The
General Manager will also be a signer on documents as well as the Chair of
the Board.
Resolution no. 6 adopted by the Board on April 20, 2010 shall be amended
to add authorization for execution of a master trust indenture by RTD and
authorization for the General Manager to sign all documents, as shown in
the attached revisions.

II.

MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 22,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates



CAC – There was no update given.
Fiber Optic Agreement – Pranaya Shrestha gave this update. A fiber optic
system has been designed from Jefferson County Government Center to CPV

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Thursday, June 17, 2010
Page 4
Junction. City and County of Denver and Jefferson County have approached
RTD about adding their own fiber optic network at their own cost. Private
companies have also approached RTD about leasing some of the fiber and
staff will put out a RFP to see what kind of interest it generates. This could
be a way for the District to generate some additional revenue.
General Manager Washington said this is a potential value capture and praised
staff for their innovative ideas.
Director McMullen asked about the potential revenue. Mr. Shresthra said the
estimates are anywhere from hundreds of thousands of dollars to several
million per year.


Property Acquisition Review- Susan Altes gave an update on current property
acquisition. Three hundred nineteen impacts have been advised. Eight-four
percent have been released to the contractor, DCTG. The acquisition
program began in April 2009. Agreements have been reached on several
other properties.
The Eagle P3 will require acquisition from 170-190 property owners. Staff
has issued 45 notices of intent to acquire on the East Corridor. We are only
issuing notices for people we can immediately contact with appraisers. This is
a direct result of the “lessons learned” from the West Corridor property
acquisition process.



Number of properties that will be required for currently unfunded projects:
 I-225 - 127 properties
 North Metro – 139 properties.

Ms. Altes and Mr. Washington reminded the Committee that there is no budget to
purchase properties on unfunded corridors.
Director Daly wanted to know how many residential properties would be affected on
the East Corridor. Ms. Altes replied that on the entire Eagle P3 project one
residential property will be affected.
III.

Other Matters - No other matters were discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for July 6, 2010.

V.

Adjourn – Committee Chair McMullen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee at 6:52 at p.m.

