1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, November 19, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
B. Public Safety Update - Denver Police Chief - Robert White
C. Recommended Actions

• Award Contract to Purchase Video Event Recorders for Bus Safe Driving
Management

• Award of Access-a-Ride Services Contracts
• Amendment of ADA Contracts for Call-n-Ride Service Awards
• Award Contract to Supply 125 – 40’ Low-Floor Transit Buses
• Paratransit Service Extension and Funds
D. Updates

• Smart Card Project Status Update

 Update on DUS Service Change Meetings - No Back Up
 DesignLine Update - No Back Up
E. Other Matters
F. Next Meeting Date - December 10, 2013
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 12, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Purchase Video Event
Recorders for Bus Safe Driving Management

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award the contract to SmartDrive Systems of San
Diego, CA, for the purchase of up to 600 event recorder systems and five (5) years of managed services
to host and review data, provide event management in web application and produce driving behavior
reports to allow coaching of drivers on safe driving and accident reduction.
BACKGROUND
The safe driving management system is made up of onboard recording equipment and back office data
review and evaluation. The onboard equipment consists of an event recorder mounted on the bus
windshield with outward and inward facing cameras controlled by an onboard computer. The system
records video, audio, GPS location, speed, and accelerations in all three axes. The system saves data 15
seconds before and 15 seconds after an event. An event is triggered either automatically by preset
parameters, like g-forces being out of normal range signifying an impact or unusual maneuver of some
sort, or by the driver manually initiating the recording. Data for these events are uploaded to the service
provider each night and reviewed for the cause and severity of the event. The information is filtered,
prioritized and then fed back to RTD to enable effective coaching with the drivers.
Driver coaching based on data from video-based data recorders has been shown to reduce risky driving
behaviors. Poor behaviors can be addressed and good behaviors reinforced. The coaching process to
reduce poor driving behaviors will result in fewer accidents, more comfortable rides, and safer buses. In
addition, the system has been shown to provide objective data to document the cause of accidents for
reducing false claims.
The Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on June 11, 2013 for the procurement of a Video-Based
Fleet Safety Management Solution.

DISCUSSION
Proposals were received from two (2) companies: SmartDrive Systems and DriveCam. The proposals
were rated according to their proposed costs and company technical ability. SmartDrive was the lowest
cost proposal. It also showed compliance with RTD's technical requirements, to include the provisions
for connecting systems to our onboard mobile router for data transfer to WIFI cloud available in each of
the bus garages, and interfacing with RTD's new CAD/AVL system to retrieve driver assignment data.
DriveCam's system is lacking the WIFI transfer. It uses a cellular connection for data transfer, which
requires recurring cellular phone fees and contributes to their higher proposed cost. In addition, their
proposal did not detail how they would document driver bus assignments.

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

SmartDrive

DriveCam

Item

QTY

Unit Cost

Subtotal

Unit Cost

Subtotal

On Board Equipment
Prototype Installation
Testing,Documentation Services
Total One Time Costs

600
10
1

$438.80
$160.00
$3,175.15

$263,280.00
$1,600.00
$3,175.15
$268,055.15

$693.00
$450.00
$2,800.00

$415,800.00
$4,500.00
$2,800.00
$423,100.00

Bus
QTY

Cost per
Bus/Month

600
600
600
600
600

$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00

Monthly Costs
Managed Services to host and
review data, provide event
management in web
application, provide reports.
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Year 5
Total Recurring Cost

Total Cost

Subtotal

$201,600.00
$201,600.00
$201,600.00
$201,600.00
$201,600.00
$1,008,000.00

Cost per
Bus/Month

$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00

$1,276,055.15

Subtotal

$302,400.00
$302,400.00
$302,400.00
$302,400.00
$302,400.00
$1,512,000.00

$1,935,100.00

RTD has used two approaches to reduce the cost of this system. First, RTD requires the integration
with the existing onboard mobile router for daily data transfer via WIFI cloud, thus eliminating recurring
cellular fees. Second, RTD will use in-house personnel for the equipment installations.

FINANCIAL IMPACT

This contract is for the purchase of up to 600 sets of onboard equipment and five years of managed
services to host and review event data, manage the events in a web application, and provide reports and
program reviews. The funding for the equipment purchase is approved and available in the District's
2013 Adopted Budget. Funding for year one is included in the District's 2014 Proposed Budget and the
following years will be included on an ongoing basis. Total not to exceed costs are $268,055 for the
equipment and $201,600 per year for five (5) years of managed services.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There was no DBE requirement for work performed under this contract.

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

ALTERNATIVES
1. To authorize the General Manager to award a contract to SmartDrive Systems for the purchase of up
to 600 event recorder systems and for five (5) years of managed services to host and review data,
provide event management in web application and provide reports. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Award the contract to the DriveCam, the second high rated proposal. This is not the recommended
action as it would contradict with RTD's procurement practice.
3. Do not authorize the award of the contract. This is not desirable as it would not provide the expected
safety benefit to our drivers, passengers and communities.
4. Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it would
result, at the very least, in a delay in the expected benefits and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
MinuteTraq Admin,
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 13, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Award of Access-a-Ride Services Contracts

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts for the provision of Access-aRide services using dedicated (RTD owned) vehicles with MV Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, and
Via Mobility Services. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year options for a 5-year, with
a cumulative not-to-exceed cost of $145,700,972 for Access-a-Ride service and $28,125,117 for
Access-a-Ride fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $173,826,089. The contract amounts by
service provider are as follows: MV Transportation - $66,279,862 for service, $14,062,559 for fuel,
for a total not-to-exceed amount of $80,342,421; Horizon Coach Lines - $42,484,584 for service,
$7,031,279 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $49,515,863; and Via Mobility Services $36,936,526 for service, $7,031,279 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $43,967,805. The
committee further recommends that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of Access-a-Ride services with non-dedicated
(contractor provided) vehicles with Veolia Transportation on Demand. This contract is for three years,
with two one-year options for a total 5-year, not-to-exceed amount of $9,811,727. Fuel for this
contract is included in the total contract price. These proposals represent the most responsive and
responsible proposals received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-035, to provide
Access-a-Ride Services.
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. All
policies regarding services were developed in concert with a citizen advisory committee comprised of
individuals from the disabled community. The original design of the Access-a-Ride program was adopted
by the RTD Board of Directors and was forwarded to the Federal Transit Administration for their
approval.
The current Access-a-Ride structure consists of one Call Center Contractor and four Service Provider
Contractors. First Transit operates the Call Center while Global Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines,
MV Transportation, and Via Mobility Services provide the service. In addition, all paratransit eligibility
functions are handled under contract with Easter Seals of Colorado. The current Access-a-Ride service
provider contracts are currently scheduled to expire December 31, 2013.
On August 16, 2013, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals
to provide Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services. Proposers had the option of bidding on 50%, 25%,
or 16.6% of the Access-a-Ride service and up to two packages of Call-n-Ride service. This service
represents the re-bid of service currently provided by Global Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, MV
Transportation, and Via Mobility Services. The RFP was available on the RTD external website for public

Packet Pg. 6

1.C.2

download. In addition, announcements were placed in transit publications. Proposals were due on
September 20, 2013.
DISCUSSION
Twelve (12) proposals were received in response to RFP 13-DH-035 for the Provision of Access-a-Ride
services. Proposals were received from Apple Bus Company, First Transit, Global Transportation, Horizon
Coach Lines, McDonald Transit Associates, MV Transportation, Ride Right, SCR Medical Transportation,
Trinity Transit, Veolia Transportation and Veolia Transportation on Demand (separate proposals for both
dedicated and non-dedicated vehicle service), and Via Mobility Services (formerly known as Special
Transit).
It is the recommendation of the evaluation committee formed to evaluate proposals received in response
to RFP 13-DH-035, that RTD award contracts for the Access-a-Ride service provision to MV
Transportation (50% of the revenue hours), Horizon Coach Lines (25% of the revenue hours), and Via
Mobility Services (25% of the revenue hours). This recommendation is based upon the evaluation of the
proposals according to the evaluative criteria as set forth in the RFP for this procurement. The
evaluative criteria established for this procurement were: a) understanding/approach and organization for
implementation (40%); b) experience of firm and individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines
(25%); c) Small Business Enterprise (SBE) Submittal / Compliance (5%) and d) price (30%).
The evaluation team consisted of Larry Buter, Manager, Paratransit Services; Maria Christian,
Technician, Contracted Services; Steve Gieske, Assistant General Superintendent, Maintenance; Kenn
Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights; Pat Heye, Senior Alternative Service Planner / Scheduler; Brian
Matthews, Manager, Special Services; Chris Sills, Paratransit Safety and Training Compliance Officer;
Joy Volz, Paratransit Quality Assurance Supervisor; and Mac Weeden, Senior Quality Control Inspector.
The members of the evaluation team individually reviewed the technical proposals submitted by the
twelve proposers. Each team member evaluated the proposals on how well the proposal met the
evaluative criteria set forth for the procurement and assigned a score for “Understanding and Approach”
and for “Experience and Proposed Key Positions.” “SBE Submittal and Compliance” was evaluated and
scored by the Civil Rights Division. The score for the “Cost” element of each proposal was calculated
by the RTD procurement staff and was then added to the technical score and the SBE score of each
proposal to determine the overall score or rating of each proposal.
The key strengths of each proposal are as follows:
Apple Bus Company – previous experience with a similar sized system.
First Transit – previous experience, proposed installation of DriveCam system, comprehensive training
and maintenance program.
Global Transportation – incumbent, good training program, no start up.
Horizon Coach Lines – incumbent, good maintenance program, no start up.
McDonald Transit Associates – good maintenance program and quality control systems.
MV Transportation – incumbent, proposed new technologies to monitor service, good maintenance and
training program.
Ride Right – previous experience with a similar sized system.
SCR Medical Transportation – previous experience, good training and quality control systems.
Trinity Transit – previous experience with Access-a-Ride Project Management.

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2

Veolia Transportation (dedicated vehicle) – previous experience, good maintenance plan, good training
program.
Veolia Transportation on Demand (non-dedicated vehicle) – existing provider, limited start up, offers
scheduling flexibility.
Via Mobility Services – incumbent, strong maintenance and training, no start-up.
The key weaknesses of each proposal are as follows:
Apple Bus Company – proposal failed to address all operational requirements.
First Transit – requires start up activities.
Global Transportation – proposed Maintenance Manager, not acceptable to RTD, maintenance plan
undeveloped.
Horizon Coach Lines – expansion to 25% service levels would require facility relocation.
McDonald Transit Associates – several key personnel did not meet minimum requirements.
MV Transportation – high turn-over rate.
Ride Right – proposal failed to address all operational requirements.
SCR Medical Transportation – proposal failed to address all operational requirements.
Trinity Transit – proposal failed to address all operational requirements.
Veolia Transportation (dedicated vehicle) – proposed Maintenance Manager has limited experience at the
25% service level.
Veolia Transportation on Demand (non-dedicated vehicle) – limited quality control.
Via Mobility Services – operational logistics concerns at the 25% service level.
The total overall scores regardless of the proposed service model, including SBE rating and cost rating
were as follows:
MV Transportation –
Via Mobility –
First Transit –
Horizon Coach Lines –
Veolia (dedicated) –
Global Transportation –
McDonald –
SCR –
Ride Right –
Apple Bus Co –
Trinity Transit –
Veolia (non-dedicated) –

96
83
81
71
71
69
67
66
60
59
46
Veolia was the only proposer to bid on the non-dedicated vehicle option.

An evaluation of the total program cost was made by identifying the firms that scored in the competitive
range and then comparing the proposed prices for the 50%, 25%, and16.6% service levels. The service
model deemed most advantageous to the District in terms of both quality and cost resulted in a
combination of one 50% provider (MV Transportation) and two 25% providers (Via Mobility and Horizon
Coach Lines). It was the consensus of the evaluation team that these firms presented the best proposals
in terms of the understanding of the project, proposed management team, proposed organization,
approach to deliver the requested service, attainment of SBE goals and proposed price.
The evaluation team also considered maintaining the current four provider model. Using the costs
provided by the lowest priced service provider for the 50% service level plus the lowest prices of the

Packet Pg. 8

1.C.2

three service providers in the competitive range for the 16.6% service level, resulted in an overall
program cost increase of $4.5 million dollars over the five-year contract term. However, the evaluation
team had questions regarding changing the service model from four contractors to three and increasing
the proposed providers from a 16.6% to a 25% service level. Oral presentations were conducted with
the firms in the competitive range for the provision of 25% service model: Horizon Coach Lines, Veolia
Transportation (dedicated vehicle), and Via Mobility Services. The purpose of the oral presentations was
to offer these firms an opportunity to further articulate their operating plan and to respond to the
questions of the evaluation team. Furthermore, Veolia Transportation on Demand (non-dedicated
vehicle) was invited to provide clarification on the non-dedicated vehicle approach to providing Access-aRide services. At the conclusion of the oral presentations, the evaluation team again met and concluded
that the three provider service model represented the best model for the District and our passengers.
Therefore, the recommendation of the evaluation committee was to contract with MV Transportation to
provide 50% of the revenue hours, Horizon Coach Lines to provide 25% of the revenue hours, and Via
Mobility Services to provide 25% of the revenue hours; and to contract with Veolia Transportation to
provide non-dedicated-vehicle Access-a-Ride service.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended action is based upon the evaluation committee’s determination that the recommended
firms’ proposals represent the most responsive and responsible proposals received in response to the
RFP issued by the District. This determination is based upon the evaluation of technical, SBE and price
issues consistent with the evaluative criteria established by RTD and communicated in the RFP
document.
An RTD internal financial analysis indicated that the estimated cost to provide these services would be
higher than the prices offered by the recommended service providers. The estimated cost was based on
current and projected wage rates and other operating expenses. The financial comparison of the top
three proposals at the 50% and 25% service levels to the top four proposals at the 50% and 16.6%
resulted in the three provider model yielding a $4.5 million dollar savings to the District over the fiveyear contract term.
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are included in the 2014 requested
budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and therefore, there is no start-up cost impact on the
2014 budget. Funds will be requested in future budgets for the provision of service in future years.

ALTERNATIVES:
1)
2)

3)

Award contracts to Horizon Coach Lines, MV Transportation, and Via Mobility Services,
and Veolia Transportation on Demand as recommended.
Maintain current levels of service, one 50% service provider and three (3) 16.6% service
providers for an additional cost of $4.5 million dollars. This is not recommended as it does
not reflect the outcome of the evaluation team’s evaluation process.
Resolicit the RFP. This is not recommended as the proposal process has resulted in a
responsive and responsible proposal and is less expensive than the RTD internal cost
estimate (ICE).

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.2

Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 13, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Amendment of ADA Contracts for Call-n-Ride
Service Awards

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the new ADA paratransit services contracts
with MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services (per solicitation #13-DH-035) for the provision of Calln-Ride services. The amendment to the MV Transportation contract is for three years, with two one-year
options and shall not exceed $19,039,885 for the 5-year period for Call-n-Ride services. The
amendment to the Via Mobility Services contract is also for three years, with two one-year options and
shall not exceed $8,692,084 for the 5-year period for Call-n-Ride services. In addition, these contracts
will include a cost for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The total 5-year estimated
cost for Call-n-Ride fuel for MV Transportation is $3,333,539 and for Via Mobility Services is
$1,380,399. The total 5-year not-to-exceed cost for MV Transportation is $22,373,424. The total 5year not-to-exceed cost for Via Mobility Services is $10,072,483.
BACKGROUND
On August 16, 2013, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals
to provide Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services. Call-n-Ride services were included in the Access-aRide services RFP because these services had been assigned to and were operated by ADA paratransit
service providers under the existing contracts. Past experience has shown that the cost of Call-n-Ride
service is lower when combined with Access-a-Ride service because of reduced overhead costs.
All of the existing Call-n-Ride services (with the exception of the Evergreen CNR) were divided into three
(3) service packages and proposers were allowed to bid on one or two packages. Proposers were
required to bid on Access-a-Ride service in order to also bid on Call-n-Ride service (Call-n-Ride service
was not a “stand alone” service option). Proposers were not required to submit a separate proposal for
Call-n-Ride service, but they were required to detail how they would address the unique operational
requirements of the service.
The Call-n-Rides included in each package are as follows:
Package A
Arapahoe
Belleview
Dry Creek
Highlands Ranch
Lone Tree
Meridian
North Inverness
Orchard
Parker

Package B
Belmar
Golden
Green Mountain
South Jeffco

Package C
Brighton
Broomfield
Federal Heights
Interlocken
Longmont
Louisville
South Thornton
Thornton

Packet Pg. 11

1.C.3

South Inverness
The new contracts for ADA paratransit service include the option for the assignment of Call-n-Ride
service so that Call-n-Ride service can be assigned to those contracts.
DISCUSSION
Subsequent to the evaluation of the Access-a-Ride RFP responses and recommendation for contract
award, the Call-n-Ride proposals were evaluated. Only proposers that were recommended to provide
Access-a-Ride service were considered to provide Call-n-Ride services. The Call-n-Ride proposals were
evaluated on the following criteria: a) understanding/approach and organization for implementation
(40%); b) experience of firm and individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines (25%); c) Small
Business Enterprise (SBE) Submittal / Compliance (5%) and d) price (30%).
Via Mobility Services, formally known as Special Transit, has operated Call-n-Ride service for
approximately twelve years. The management team is well experienced in the provision of Call-n-Ride
service. Via Mobility currently provides Call-n-Ride service from a facility in the Boulder area and a
facility in the Denver area. This allows a quicker response time in case of vehicle maintenance problems
and cuts down on excessive deadhead mileage and fuel expenses.
MV Transportation has operated Call-n-Ride service for approximately ten years. MV Transportation
proposed a team comprised of experienced Call-n-Ride managers and drivers, and it has provided quality
Call-n-Ride service throughout its tenure. The MV Transportation facility is located in the south metro
area which provides good access for the Call-n-Rides in service packages A & B.
Horizon Coach Lines does not have any experience operating Call-n-Ride service for RTD. Horizon’s
initial RFP response provided pricing for Call-n-Ride package C. During the follow up interview with the
Horizon team, the organization identified that it had intended to bid on package B, not package C. In
addition to this oversight, the Horizon proposal provided very limited discussion on the operation of the
Call-n-Ride and the proposed Call-n-Ride Supervisor had limited experience managing this type of service.
The evaluation of the Call-n-Ride service proposals and pricing resulted in a recommendation to assign
Call-n-Ride Packages A and B to MV Transportation under the ADA paratransit contract and Call-n-Ride
Package C to Via Mobility Services under the ADA paratransit contract. The contracts to provide these
services are scheduled to be effective April 1, 2014.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are included in the 2014 requested
budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and therefore, there is no start-up cost impact on the
2014 budget. Funds will be requested in future budgets for the provision of service in future years.

ALTERNATIVES:
1)

Assign Call-n-Ride service to MV Transportation and Via Mobility as recommended. This is
recommended as both contractors’ personnel have Call-n-Ride experience and can provide
the direct supervision for a smooth contract transition.

Packet Pg. 12

1.C.3

2)

Assign Call-n-Ride service to another ADA paratransit contractor. This alternative is not
recommended as the other contractor will be experiencing an increase in their Access-aRide revenue hours and this will be a new service for them. This would also contradict the
results of the evaluation process.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 14, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 14, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Supply 125 – 40’ LowFloor Transit Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to Gillig LLC for the purchase of 125 – 40’ low-floor
transit buses and associated spare components in the amount not to exceed $51,800,000, with an option to
purchase up to 307 additional 40’ buses over a five year period.
BACKGROUND
RTD’s existing 2000 Series Orion 40’ transit buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years or 500,000
miles. The buses are coming up to 14 years old and have accumulated on average 585,000 miles of stop-andgo transit service. They have become unreliable and require intensive maintenance to keep them in service.
The bus manufacturer, Orion Bus Industries, went out of business a few years ago. Many components for bus
repair have become difficult to obtain. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) calls for the replacement of
the 2000 Series buses over the next three years, 125 buses in 2013, 110 buses in 2014, 64 buses in 2015 and
10 buses per year afterward.
The Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on May 24, 2013 for the procurement of 40’ transit buses. The
RFP solicited proposals that offer buses in different power configurations: clean diesel, CNG and hybrid
electric. Proposals were received on September 4, 2013.
DISCUSSION
Proposals were received from four companies: Gillig, New Flyer, Nova Bus, and North American Bus Industries
(NABI).
The proposers submitted their costs as follows.

Gillig

Clean Diesel
Bus
$412,662

CNG Bus
$460,622

New Flyer

$439,990

$478,941

NOVABUS

$429,950

$486,100

Hybrid Bus
$579,227 (Series Hybrid)
$604,081 (Parallel Hybrid)
$585,681 (Series Hybrid)
$626,951 (Parallel Hybrid)
$595,270 (Series Hybrid)
$627,600 (Parallel Hybrid)

Packet Pg. 14

1.C.4

NABI

$473,066

$512,269

No Bid (Series Hybrid)
$665,570 (Parallel Hybrid)

Staff has performed a life cycle cost analysis of the different power configurations to determine the most cost
effective and efficient propulsion power system for the new buses.
The hybrid buses are $166,565 (for the series hybrid) or $191,419 (for the parallel hybrid) higher in unit cost
than the diesel buses. Accordingly, RTD would only be able to purchase 85 to 89 hybrid buses for the available
budget instead of the 125 replacement vehicles desired.
Based on RTD’s experience of 20% better fuel economy for the hybrid buses and its current diesel fuel
purchase price, it would take between 31 and 36 years to reach the break-even point on the capital
investment for hybrid buses. This far exceeds the twelve (12) year useful life of the vehicle. Accordingly, hybrid
vehicles were eliminated from further consideration.
The CNG buses are $47,960 higher in unit cost than the diesel buses. Accordingly, RTD would only be able
to purchase 112 CNG buses for the available budget instead of 125 replacement vehicles desired.
In order to convert to CNG operations, RTD must also invest in new CNG stations and safety modifications
of existing maintenance and parking facilities. Since the 40’ buses will be distributed to all three RTD’s
divisions and four private operators’ divisions, all seven divisions would have to be modified for CNG. The
CNG stations required for fueling CNG vehicles at seven divisions are estimated to cost upward of $17.3
Million. The facility modifications to these divisions to bring them into compliance with fire codes for safe
operations of CNG fuel are estimated to cost up to $31.4 Million. The total facility upgrades for the seven
divisions are estimated to result in a $48.7 million investment. No funding has been identified to finance
these necessary capital improvements.
Currently, CNG fuel cost is equal to about 50% of diesel fuel cost. Based on the RTD’s average year to date
purchase prices of $3.26 per gallon of diesel and $1.62 per diesel gallon equivalent of CNG, together with
the assumption that the price differential between diesel fuel and CNG fuel would stay the same
throughout the future years under this analysis, it would take 13 years to reach the break-even point on
the capital investment for CNG buses and required facility upgrades.

The CNG analysis by staff indicates:

Savings in CNG fuel cost will be more than offset by the higher cost of bus purchase and
upgrading the maintenance and parking facilities.

Prices of natural gas and diesel fuel have been historically extremely volatile. There is no
guarantee that the current pricing advantage of natural gas over diesel fuel will continue into the
future. Examples of the price volatility are shown below.

Packet Pg. 15

1.C.4

Nov-04
Nov-05
Nov-06
Sep-08
Aug-11
Sep-13

Diesel
$/gallon
$1.690
$1.980
$2.000
$3.200
$2.365
$3.260

CNG
$/gallon
$2.017
$2.585
$1.752
$1.576
$1.889
$1.635

CNG Cost as
Percent of
Diesel Cost
119%
131%
88%
49%
80%
50%


There are no significant air quality impacts to convert from diesel to CNG operations. Both new
clean diesel and new CNG buses have significantly lower emissions than the older buses they replace.
The emissions of new clean diesel and CNG buses are considered to be the same.

The CNG facility upgrade will take at least two years to implement. Going with CNG buses will
delay the bus procurement process at least two years.

In the past CNG buses showed higher maintenance costs than diesel buses. However, in the
last several years, CNG engine technology has improved. Even though CNG buses require certain new
costs for CNG related maintenance such as CNG engine sparkplug replacement and high pressure fuel
system maintenance, staff has assumed CNG and diesel maintenance costs to be equivalent.

The reliability and durability of CNG engines are still questionable at high altitude and cold
weather conditions, coupled with the usage of low energy natural gas available in Denver metro area.
High altitude conditions cause loss of engine power and hotter engine operating temperature. Cold
weather causes CNG engine starting problems. Denver’s natural gas has lower energy content than the
rest of the country. Low energy gas causes engine operating issues.

CNG is a combustible gas at very high pressure (3,600 pounds per square inch of pressure).
Safety and security for the operation of CNG are of concern.

The high cost CNG stations and associated facility upgrades may become obsolete in 12 years at
the end of life of the buses under this procurement. Electric vehicle technology appears to be the
preferred technology of the future. A number of electric buses are currently in production or under
demonstration by bus manufacturers. As electric bus technology is still in its infancy, it currently has
issues such as high purchase cost and low operating range. In the upcoming years, it is expected that
the technology will advance and production processes will improve, allowing the bus cost to come
down and the operating range to increase.
There are risks that the very large investment in CNG facility upgrades and CNG buses may not pay off; that
the savings on CNG fuel may not be realized due to commodity price fluctuations; that the CNG technology
may become obsolete to better engine technologies currently being demonstrated such as electric vehicles;
and that CNG operational difficulties may be experienced under RTD’s high altitude, cold climate and low
energy natural gas usage. In addition, no funding has been indentified to finance the CNG facility upgrades.

Packet Pg. 16

1.C.4

Based on the above considerations, staff has recommended that RTD stay with clean diesel technology as a
good public policy.
The proposals were also rated according to their proposed costs and company technical ability.
Gillig submitted the lowest cost proposal, which is also rated highly for its technical ability. Gillig’s proposal is
the most responsive, responsible, lowest cost and best value proposal. Gillig meets and exceeds RTD technical
specification requirements. Gillig has the experience and qualification in the manufacture of transit buses,
being one of the oldest and most financially stable manufacturers in North America. Gillig offered a lifetime
warranty against bus structure corrosion damage. Gillig proposed a delivery schedule that meets RTD’s 12month delivery schedule requirement.
The 40’ buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be equipped with a
wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance. Their clean diesel engines will
meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up to 90% from the level of the existing
buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger count system and a security digital camera
system. The 40’ buses will have two passenger doors and 36 passenger seats.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This current contract is for the purchase of 125-40’ low-floor transit buses and associated spare components
in the amount not to exceed $51,800,000. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the
District’s 2013 Adopted Budget, and also identified in 2014 Requested Budget.
The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 307 additional buses over a five year period. Pricing for
additional option buses will be based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price adjustment
computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is published monthly.
Additional buses to be purchased from the options will require separate authorizations from the RTD Board of
Directors.
DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required proposal
submittal documents, Gillig has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES


To authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Gillig for the purchase of 125 clean diesel 40’
low-floor transit buses and associated spare components. This is the recommended alternative.



Award the contract to Gillig for a smaller quantity of CNG 40’ buses (112 buses) with the available
budget. This is not the recommended action as it would delay the bus purchase from one to two years
due to the long process to construct the CNG fuel stations and modify the maintenance and parking

Packet Pg. 17

1.C.4

facilities. CNG requires higher bus purchase costs and multi-million dollar facility costs, which will
offset the CNG fuel savings. There are risks of operational difficulty for CNG buses in RTD’s high
altitude and cold weather conditions, in addition to the availability of only low energy natural gas in
Denver metro area. In addition, no funding has been identified to finance the necessary capital
improvements.


Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it would result,
at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 18

1.C.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 14, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

November 14, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Paratransit Service Extension and Funds

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to extend contracts with Horizon Coach Lines and Global Transportation
for the provision of Access-a-Ride services and with Via Mobility Services and MV Transportation for the
provision of Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services for a period of three (3) months at the following notto-exceed costs. For Access-a-Ride services: Horizon Coach Lines – service $1,385,003, fuel
$207,513, total $1,592,516; Global Transportation – service $1,343,251, fuel $207,513, total
$1,550,764; Via Mobility Services – service $1,386,102, fuel $207,513, total $1,593,615; MV
Transportation – service $3,676,213, fuel $622,543, total $4,298,756. For Call-n-Ride services: Via
Mobility Services – service $358,632, fuel $60,444, total $419,076; MV Transportation – service
$824,052, fuel $150,659, total $974,711. The cumulative total not-to-exceed costs are as follows:
Access-a-Ride service $7,790.570, Access-a-Ride fuel $1,245,081 and Access-a-Ride total
$9,035,650; and Call-n-Ride service $1,182,685, Call-n-Ride fuel $207,356 and Call-n-Ride total
$1,390,040.

BACKGROUND
In June of 2012 the RTD Board of Directors approved a one (1) year extension to the Access-a-Ride
service contracts with MV Transportation, Global Transportation, VIA Mobility, and Horizon Coach
Lines.
The extension also included the Call-n-Ride services which were assigned to MV
Transportation and Via Mobility. The extension was approved, in part, to allow staff to fully analyze
the benefits of utilizing non-dedicated vehicles for a portion of the Access-a-Ride service.
Approximately two years ago, several Board Members requested that an evaluation be conducted
with respect to a relatively new concept of offering paratransit services via non-dedicated vehicles.
While the usage of non-dedicated vehicles has been a viable form of transportation within the taxi
and human services arena, their use within the strictly enforced parameters of ADA paratransit had
not yet been fully demonstrated or analyzed. During the last two years, staff had been critically
assessing new service delivery models to include the possibility of incorporating non-dedicated
vehicles as a resource.
Non-Dedicated Service operates with vehicles that do not provide
transportation exclusively for a particular service such as Access-a-Ride, but are also used to
transport other passengers when not engaged in providing paratransit service. These drivers and
vehicles are in essence, hired for a particular time and when released, continue to use their vehicles
for other matters.

DISCUSSION
Subsequent to the recent procurement of the Access-a-Ride service and the recommendation by staff
to move from four (4) dedicated vehicle providers to three (3) dedicated vehicle providers and one (1)

Packet Pg. 19

1.C.5

non-dedicated vehicle provider, an extension of three (3) months is being requested in order to
facilitate a smooth transition to the new service model. Two of the dedicated-vehicle providers will
be increasing their service level from 16.6% of the Access-a-Ride service to 25%. This will require
increases in driver, mechanic and staff levels and modifications to operating facilities. A three (3)
month extension to the existing Access-a-Ride contracts will provide adequate time for the
contractors to accomplish these tasks.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
There will be no budgetary impact as these funds have been budgeted for in the 2014 requested budget.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 20

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: November 14, 2013

From:

Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

November 13, 2013

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2013

Subject:

Smart Card Project Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
RTD’s Treasury Department has taken ownership of the installation of additional platform validators at
various locations throughout the RTD light rail system. Due to budgetary constraints some of the
planned installations are being delayed until 2014. By the end of 2013 the platform validators at Colfax
and Auraria will be moved to more convenient locations. New and improved network connectivity will be
installed at Sports Authority Field, and additional validators will be installed at 30th and Downing. In
2014 platform validators will be installed at Southmoor, 16th and Stout, Orchard and 27th and Welton.
Over 35 Street Supervisors attended a series of 6 classes focused on the use of the Handheld Smart
Media Reader to scan SmartCards. 98% of those scheduled to attend participated in the training.
In partnership with Xerox, the SMT Program Team continues to work on Phase 1 improvements and has
defined the scope of changes in the following areas:
 Ticket Management changes that will help manage requests for assistance with SmartCard.
 Increased search capabilities within the web portal
 Inventory Management changes that will create a better audit train of SmartCard transfers from
one warehouse to another.
Other activities that are under way include
 EcoPass Card Renewal will be completed by 12/31/13
 ADA compliance improvements on existing platform validators
 Development of a Disaster Recovery Outline and Plan
The information outlined below contains the current status of SMT Program activities:
1. BUS INSTALLATIONS
Key

Elements

1a

Stanchion Replacements

1b

Bus Validator Inventory


Green

Status
All of the broken bus stanchions have been repaired. RTD
has quality checked the replacements and has passed the
inspection. We are awaiting the Deliverables Approval
document from Xerox.
Work continues to complete the bus validator inventory
entered into Maximum. As many of the validators were
purchased with federal ARRA funds, RTD is required to be
able to report on the installation location of the hardware.

2. PLATFORM INSTALLATIONS & UPGRADES

Packet Pg. 21

1.D.1

Key

Elements

2a

Installation

2b

Changing Cellular
Connectivity to Network
on Platform Validators

2c


Green

Status
Due to budgetary constraints some of the planned
installations are being delayed until 2014. By the end of
2013 the platform validators at Colfax and Auraria will be
moved to more convenient locations. New and improved
network connectivity will be installed at Sports Authority
Field, and additional validators will be installed at 30th and
Downing. In 2014 platform validators will be installed at
Southmoor, 16th and Stout, Orchard and 27th and Welton.
As part of the validator installations in 2013, a proof of
concept installation is being completed at Sports Authority
Field, the goal of which is to increase the ability of the ticket
sales machines to report sales more consistently. If this test
proves successful, more work can be planned for 2014 in an
effort to change all cellular connectivity to hardwired network
connectivity.
A new Braille sticker for the platform validators has been
designed and printed in-house using technology that exists in
RTD’s print shop. The new sticker will be reviewed by
members of the Coalition for the Blind to obtain their
feedback during a meeting in December.

ADA Compliance on
Platform Validators

3. HANDHELD SMART MEDIA READERS
Key

Elements

3a

HSMR Training

3b

Fare Inspection


Green

Status
HSMR training has been delivered to 98% of the Street
Supervisor Staff.
The SMT Program Team is working closely with Fare
Inspectors, the Bus and Light Rail Driver Training Team and
Marketing to assess the appropriate date for Fare Inspection
to begin in earnest. Currently plans are in place to go live
with Fare Inspection on February 1, 2014.

4. WEB PORTAL
Key

Elements

4a

Marketing Review

4b

Bulk Upload & Suspend


Yellow

Status
All of the requirements outlined in the Marketing Review have
been taken into account by Xerox. An initial estimate of
1000 hours to complete the work has been submitted by
Xerox. The SMT Program Team is working with Marketing to
create screen mock-ups for newly designed pages.
Work continues to assist colleges with their bulk
upload/suspend/deactivate activities. This same functionality
may be used to assist with EcoPass renewals.

Packet Pg. 22

1.D.1

5. CARD DISTRIBUTION
Key Elements



Status

Green
5

The SMT Program Team is beginning conversations with
Marketing and Operations Finance to determine the best
approach to follow when producing MyRide cards. More
discussions are planned for the near future.

Card Issuance

6. MARKETING
Key

Elements

6a

Strategy

6b

Mayor’s Office, City &
County of Denver and
Denver Public Schools


Green

Status
The Marketing strategy for re-educating the general public on
tapping procedures has been altered to accommodate the
date for Fare Inspection go-live. The team has an estimated
date of February 1, 2014 for Fare Inspection to begin in
earnest. Marketing plans to move forward with installing
signs on trains reminding riders of the correct tapping
procedures as well as when a rider is required to show their
ID. The SMT Program Team is also working with Bus
Operator Training specialist to begin the SmartCard 101
training for the drivers.
Members of the SMT Program Team met with
representatives of the Denver Mayor’s Office and the City &
County of Denver to discuss the strategy and technical
requirements of creating a smart card system that would
provide students with the ability to use one card to gain
access to RTD transportation, Denver recreational centers,
libraries, and their schools. Although members of the Denver
Public School District were invited, no one was able to
attend. Marketing is scheduling a follow-up meeting with the
appropriate participants to talk about timing and next steps.

7. RETAIL POINT OF SALE (RPOS)
Key

Elements

7

Factory Acceptance
Testing


Green

Status
Factory Acceptance Testing for the Retail Point of Sale units
has been completed and was successful. There are two items
that will require remediation, and a few other items (spelling
and message clarification) will be reviewed with the vendor.

8. OPERATIONAL DESIGN
Key

Elements

8a

Business Process
Development


Yellow

Status
A meeting is scheduled with the AGMs the week of
November 18th to begin discussions on the development of
the Smart Media Technology Program Support Plan. AGMs

Packet Pg. 23

1.D.1

Key

8b

Elements


Yellow

Operational Support
Processes for SMT
Infrastructure

Status
will review organizational recommendations from CH2M-Hill
and prioritize the #1 and #2 areas of program focus on which
process, metrics, roles and responsibilities activities will
begin.
The SMT Program Team is in discussions to determine the
best approach to document the processes surrounding the
operational support of the SMT Infrastructure.

NEAR-TERM ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event
Installation & Training of RPOS Units (RTD Locations)
Installation of RPOS Units (other than RTD locations)
Period passes and Stored Value:
RTD Retail Locations and Web
King Soopers/Safeway/Other Retailers

Substantial System Completion (All Deliverables)

Time Frame
Q2 2014
Q3 and Q4 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014/Q1 2015
Phase 1
(Eco, College, Neighborhood):
Complete
Phase 2
(MyRide - Passes/Stored Value):
Q3 2014
Phase 3
(Reduced Fare Program & FlexPass)
2015

Prepared by:
Judy McMurphy, IT Program Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 24

