Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

December 14, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
December 13, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Director Anderson arrived late. Chair Kemp participated via conference
call

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bob Brown, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover,
Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill
Holmes, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay,
Marla Lien, Pat McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Steve
Pilon, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Sutton, Greg Smith, Jim
Smith, Errol Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Bill Weidenaar, and Don Young.

Others Present:

John Baron – GBSM, Ferd Belz – USA, Dana Crawford – USA,
Katherine Davis – USA, Mike Dino – Patton Boggs, Brent D. – Chandler
Films, Jenny Elich, Jared Fleisher – Patton Boggs, Carlos Gonsalez –
First Transit, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Tom Gruskha – Chandler
Films, Anne Hayes – USA, Jeff Hermanson – Larimer Associates,
Dennis Huspeni – Denver Business Journal, Margaret Jackson – Denver
Post, Jim Johnson – USA, Floyd Jones – CCBC, David Levine –
Larimer Associates, Stu Livensparger – First Transit, Scott M., Pat
McHenry – USA, Burt Melcher, Anne Mieno – Patton Boggs, Kyle Miller
– GBSM, Kevin O’Neill – Patton Boggs, Joseph P., Rick P. – First
Transit, Rosemary Paolillo, Michael Pecot – USA, Justin Salbia –
Chandler Films, Josefina Schnaith – Sage, Susan Spry – First Transit,
Joe Vostrejs – Sage, Cody Wertz – GBSM, Bryon White,
****

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 2 of 7

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at5:30p.m.

Patton Boggs Presentation
Representatives from Patton Boggs (Mike Dino, Jared Fleisher, Anne Mieno and Kevin
O’Neill) explained RTD’s Federal Funding Accomplishments and Federal Policy Agenda. A
copy of this presentation is available for review in the Board Office.
Director McMullen asked how the funding was coming along for the various lines and if
we were on schedule. Kevin O’Neill indicated that funding for the West Line has been
received and for the next fiscal year and subsequent years funding will most likely fall
behind the FFGA schedule. There is possibility to catch-up at the end of each project,
but it will be a challenge.
Director Tayer added that RTD is immensely popular in Washington, but inquired if there
was any backlash or RTD fatigue that would cause RTD to not receive any additional
federal funds. Anne Mieno explained that congress is in bad need of success stories and
they like to use RTD as an example of a project that works and utilizes federal money
wisely. Jared Fleisher added that people do not get tired of hearing about RTD because
of the organizations innovation such as the WIN Program.
General Manager Washington mentioned that he had received an invitation to meet John
Mica, the Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Sherry
Ellebracht was able to attend that meeting and represented RTD very well.

II.

Recommended Actions
Committee Chair James noted that Chair Kemp would be calling in for the Denver Union
Station action item and indicated that it would be moved to later in the meeting so that
Chair Kemp could participate.
 Proposed 2012 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that theRTD
Board of Directors approve the proposed schedule of internal audits to be performed
in 2012.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at
the December 20, 2011 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Walker

seconded

the

The Motion passed Unanimously.
Director Anderson was absent from
this vote.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 3 of 7

III.

Information
 Farebox Installation Update
Dan Young explained that the farebox installation has been on our agenda for many
years and a total of 983 boxes were replaced in 12½ weeks. The new boxes have
cyberlock technology which will only work with authorized key cards that timestamp
activity and location. The vendor was so pleased with our action plan they have
decided to incorporate that into any future installations for other agencies.
Jim Smith noted that because of the cooperation of all of the divisions this was
completed on time and under budget.
 Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Recommendations Update
Terry Howerter indicted that there was a memo included with the Sustainability
Committee recommendations and where we are currently at on each.
Janette Scarpino explained that we have made great progress with naming rights,
self collection of sales tax, service optimization, technology and energy innovation
and the creation of a capital replacement fund and operating fund. The Finance
Department is primarily focused on self collection of sales tax, which we are
investigating and would continue to investigate.
Director Cohen inquired where we are in a timeline of an energy audit of our facilities.
David Genova noted that we are in the process of trying to identify funding for that
since there was not a funding source included in the 2012 budget. However, we are
ready to go out with an RFP as soon as we are able to either identify funds or
possibly acquire surplus funds from another project.
Director Tobiassen asked how other items can be added to the list. Terry Howerter
explained that there is no set process per se, but we can bring items in front of the
committee at any time to see if it is something the Board is interested in pursuing.
Director Tayer added that staff should push ahead with items that they know are
worthy of pursuing. The Board and Staff should go over the entire list at the Board
Advance to prioritize and clarify which items are worth pursuing, or which items
should fall off.
 October 2011 Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod explained that this is the first month in a few months we have seen
red on the dashboard. There have been three other months this year where ridership
has been down. Year to date, we are .9% over last year which is quite remarkable
given that we’ve had a 12.5% fare increase. Fare revenue coincides with our 12.5%
rate increase, and sales and use tax continue to come in stronger than anticipated.
Year to date, we are 5.9% ahead of last year which is slightly ahead of the Leeds
forecast.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 4 of 7

Recommended Action
 Denver Union Station Historic Building Re-Use Developer Negotiations
The Financial Administration & Audit Committee recommends support of the Staff
recommendation, which is consistent with the recommendation of the evaluation
panel, for the DUS Historic Building RFP and requests that the RTD Board authorize
the General Manager and/or his designee to begin negotiations with the Union Station
Alliance (USA) team for purposes of establishing a contract for the re-use of historic
Denver Union Station. Upon successful completion of negotiations with USA, the
General Manager and/or his designee will bring those terms to the RTD Board of
Directors for approval. If negotiations are not successful, the General Manager and/or
his designee will inform the Board and provide alternatives for proceeding forward
with the re-use of the historic DUS building at that time. As a part of the negotiation
process, the General Manager wants to acknowledge to the Board that he will be
seeking to hire outside legal counsel to assist with the negotiation process at a fee
not to exceed the limit of $200,000. This amount is within the General Manager's
budgetary authority as authorized by the RTD Board of Directors.
Committee Chair James, taking a chair’s prerogative read a pre-prepared statement.
We are on the threshold of a very important decision and I am very pleased about the
process that have taken place. Some have criticized the process for being slow while
others think it’s too fast. We may go in a different direction than some people agree
with, but I am real pleased with the deliberate process that we’ve had and I think I
join my colleagues in being pleased with the amount of input that we’ve gotten from
a variety of corners. The Board has the opportunity to make the decision to do
nothing with the historic union station building if it so chooses both now and at the
Board meeting next week. The primary differences between the proposals are the use
of the upper floors of the building and the financial return on investment to RTD. An
important consideration is the likelihood that the train hall will be activated and use of
the upper floors is pretty much invisible to the public.
General Manager Washington indicated that on behalf of staff we wanted to thank
both teams for their passion and commitment to the redevelopment initiative. One
main focus was to maintain the integrity of the procurement process. We have done
a lot of things over several months with RFQs, RFPs, Executive Sessions, committee
and board meeting briefings. The evaluation panel which was made up of RTD staff,
representatives from the City and County of Denver, DUSPA and select real estate
experts have done a great job in working with the district in putting a
recommendation forward.
Bill Sirois added that the level of passion regarding Union Station has been amazing.
We reviewed both proposals with the set criteria and the recommendation stands to
move forward with negotiations with the USA team. The panel agrees that there
needs to be more public input regarding the public spaces and how the community
can utilize it. Assuming we move forward, this will continue to be an evolution.
Director Tayer indicated that he would be voting against this item noting that Union

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 5 of 7

Station is essentially Denver’s most visible icon. There is a great deal of interest in
this building and would like to have further public input before we move forward.
Also, the financial components of both proposals should be made public regarding
each team’s financial commitment. I’d ask my fellow Board members to wait, and get
more public comment before moving forward.
Director Hoy noted that additional time will not necessarily yield additional
information. We have been bombarded with information from both teams and as we
go forward with this project, management and staff will ensure we end up with an
amazing building. The upper level impact will not detriment our daily commuters,
local residents or businesses. We need to make a decision that is fiscally responsible
with our tax payers’ money.
Director Cohen added that Union Station was purchased with tax payer money in
2001; therefore it does belong to the public. There has been a large public outcry
against the hotel and this issue is somewhat polarizing and divisive. Therefore he too
will be voting against this item.
Director Anderson expressed her support for the staff recommendation. She is
confident that as the negotiations go forward, DUS will be restored to its formal
glory. This is a good financial decision.
Director Daly explained that in the recommendation to enter contract negotiations
staff has already eliminated one team. What is being asked of the Board is to only
negotiate with one team and doing so is not fiscally responsible considering that the
majority of the public comments are opposed to the hotel (about 60%). We can’t cut
out one team from the negotiation process.
Director McMullen recognized former Director Rosemary Paolillo and Bert Melcher for
their contribution to the DUS effort. He indicated that we are not the source for
financial predictions. Back when the FasTracks tax was passed staff said they could
build this plan out on four pennies on a ten dollar purchase. Staff had all the facts
and it made sense, but the bottom fell out and that plan is history. We are already $2
Billion short and just last week our staff reported that we are short another $500
Million. I do not buy the math that we were given, and the proposed changes to the
building seem too extreme to be considered historical preservation. He is also hearing
that a private developer plans to build a hotel just across the street from DUS which
he suspects will draw away from the ability of the USA proposer to get the rate they
are placing their model on. Constituents feel ownership of that building and RTD has
enough on its plate right now.
Director Malpiede revealed that she had received hundreds and hundreds of e-mails
and phone calls regarding Union Station and is still very conflicted. In addition to her
own personal history, she is reminded of the fact that Goldie Meir took the train from
the DUS station. DUS conjures up memories of home, community, warmth and love
where a lot of hellos and goodbyes took place. Nevertheless, she was tremendously
impacted by a call from the Denver Road Home on behalf of the disabled community

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 6 of 7

asking for her support of this recommendation. Her primary objection to this proposal
had to do with the plans for the main level. This issue has been resolved. This is our
chance to make an impact for future generations and this recommendation is only a
starting point in negotiations. She will support the staff’s recommendation.
Director Tobiassen commented that a few months ago staff had asked what was
important to the Board, and Director Tobiassen asked that it be financially
independent. From a financial standpoint, both proposals are worlds apart and we
have a fiduciary duty to relieve the taxpayers of having to pay for the upkeep of this
building.
Director O’Boyle added that this building is an icon and will continue to be so. It is
not radical to consider at hotel, but it should be discussed with the complete financial
information. Though there are a number of “unfunded opinions”, the Board has all the
information it needs to make a financially sustainable decision.
Director Bagley noted that we forget what we have done in the past year regarding
public input and comments. He stated his perspective that the Board should not be
going into the design details but remain at the 30,000 feet policy level.
Director Deadwyler explained that if Union Station is turned into a hotel, it will
always be a hotel. Things change, and hotels fail. Historical preservation is important
and we should do so both inside and out. Also, the wording and language of the
recommendation was very negative should the Board want to vote against this item.
Saying that we open ourselves up to protest, legal action, negative perceptions and
other ramifications for waiting to proceed just isn’t true. We need additional public
input. She also expressed concern that another hotel by a private developer across
the street from DUS is imminent and projected to be completed around the same
time. The financial projections of USA should be challenged in light of this new
information.
Chair Kemp explained that RTD has a track record of a process that works. We
should allow staff to continue with negotiations and let them come back to us in a
few months with the final recommendation.
Director McMullen read a letter into the record regarding Union Station that was
received in the Board office on 12/13/11 from a group of Denver community leaders
and preservationists. A copy of this letter in its entirety can be found with the
minutes in the Board Office.
Directors Bagley and Anderson objected to the reading of this letter.
Director Cohen added that his vote tonight is giving voice to those that have no vote
in this process. However, the vote next week might change and wanted to express
now what might come across next week as a quintessential flip-flop of opinion.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on December 13, 2011
Page 7 of 7

to forward this item to the full Board
at the December 20, 2011 Board
Meeting.
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

IV.

Director
motion.

Anderson

seconded

the

The Motion passed with nine (9) in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, O’Boyle,
Tobiassen and Walker) and five (5)
against (Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
McMullen and Tayer). Committee
Chair James noted this action is
moving forward to the full Board
under Recommended Action.

Other Matters
Director Daly noted that Bob Brewster from the Colorado Rail Group recently went
through triple bypass surgery and would like to wish him on behalf of the Board good
luck.
Director Cohen reminded everyone that tomorrow would be the CAC/Staff/Board dinner
and roundtable beginning at 5:30 p.m. Everyone is encouraged to attend and meet the
new CAC advisory committee.

V.

Next Meeting Date – January 10, 2012

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:58p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service Committee.

