RTD Customer Service and Operations Meeting
Recording 12-08-20
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am calling the Operations and Customer Service
Committee meeting to order. I'll give everybody a minute to join in while I talk.
We will be convened as of 7:49 this evening. I'm respectfully asking that everyone connected to
this call please mute your phones and set your ringers to silent. I do not believe that we need to
call the roll again. Melanie, do we need to call the roll again for this committee meeting?
MELANIE: No, Madam Chair. We can just note for the record that all Directors except for
Director Lewis are still present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. OK, we are ready to go. Interestingly enough,
tonight, we have no recommended actions. We have a number of updates that we will discuss.
Following that, we have a number of information items.
So let us begin with the first update. That is the third quarter KPIs. Mr. MacLeod, would you like
to speak to that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, this is Doug MacLeod, and I will be very
brief in the memo rather than rehashing what's already there. I just wanted to point out a few
things. The system wide on-time performance, goal 3.1, overall buses met their on-time
performance.
There was just one section of that with regional bus not meeting on-time perforamce. But it was
only slightly below the 86% goal, is that 85.8%. Adjustments have been made with the
September run Board, so we should see improvement there.
The next three goals that are listed on the Board memo 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 are all financial ratios as
well as ridership. Those goals were not met due to the pandemic, where we see lower ridership
as well as lower fare revenue, which is causing each one of those ratios to be below where we
had hoped when the goals were set before the year.
Finally, bus operator mechanic headcount within authorization, that fell below budget or below
goal only because we're comparing to the original authorized headcounts instead of budgeted
headcounts. So there's an anomaly there in terms of not meeting that goal. And we'd be happy to
take any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I will go around the Directors. Chair's
prerogative, I think the comment that I think we all understand that we are still in an unusual
situation. And so I think there is no issue. Appreciate your reporting. Director Broom, do you
have questions or comments? You have to unmute. Okay.
Guess not. I'm going down the line. Director Busek?

VINCE BUSEK: I agree with Director Broom. No comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Oh, good. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with what you said about I take no issue
with the presentation. We're just in unusual circumstances and continue to be so. So thanks,
Doug, for the presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. No comments or questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comments. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Welcome. Director Lewis is not with us. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No question or comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. No questions or
comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: I am in alignment with the prior Directors, thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. Thank you, Doug.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The same, no questions or comments. Thank you, Doug.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have none, either. Thank you, Mr MacLeod. I appreciate that. I think we
will go on to the next update then, which is on the Regional Transportation District Transit Asset
Management's plan for this year. Mr. Meader, can you speak to us about that information?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. Thank you, Madam Chair. Excuse me, this is Mike Meader, Chief
Safety Security Officer, AGM for safety, security, and asset management. And as part of our
quarterly updates on the development of the RTD Asset Management System, and specifically
the Transit Asset Management Plan.
In addition to the information in your packet, I would now like to invite Lou Cripps, our Senior
Manager of Asset Management, to briefly highlight some key information in the update and
answer any questions you might have regarding the transit asset management plan. Lou?
LOU CRIPPS: Thanks. Hello, again. I'm Lou Cripps, Senior Manager of Asset Management. I
wanted to start briefly by saying thank you to the Board members who will be leaving us for
service, and then also welcoming new Board members who might happen to be on the call.
Tonight's mostly a review. And the credit for the work you see in the packet goes to the
dedicated men and women of the Asset Management team.
So if you could go to packet page 60, again, it's a recap. There's no specific ask tonight.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me. Excuse me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me. Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, Claudia, go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I can't understand a word.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Mr. Cripps-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's not you, Lou it's the connection.
KATE WILLIAMS: --you don't have a very good connection. Yeah. I don't know if you want to
try?
LOU CRIPPS: Is this better?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's way better.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.

Oh, yes.
LOU CRIPPS: OK. My apologies. So if we could go to packet page 60, again, we're just going to
recap. There's no specific ask for tonight. And in the interest of brevity, I'll keep it short, maybe
six to eight minutes, tops.
I'm sure you'll all recognize parts of tonight's presentation. They're repeated from what we
covered back in September. But this is intentional, because in September we talked about what
we were working on and why. Now, we're going to go over what was actually delivered.
There are only four simple topics. I'm going to briefly touch on the nine prescriptive elements of
transit asset management plans. Then, I'm going to cover what you should expect from a
compliant transit asset management system. Next, we'll go over the shifting focus, and I'll end
with our responsibility.
My intent was just to remind everybody that RTD has an Asset Management System, and much
like the other management systems, it underpins our business processes. So on packet page 61,
I'm going to skip right to the punch line. You have the 2020 TAMP plan in your packet. It starts
on page 66.
So for this particular item, we're current and compliant to the regulations. But in order to
maintain that compliance, we have to continue to improve. You'll also notice here that we've got
some current next steps. Those are things that still have to be delivered in 2020.
Taking a quick step back to that 2020 TAMP plan, it might seem odd that we have a 2020 TAMP
plan that's being delivered this late in the year. The way the legislation is written, we actually
signed the TAMP plan in September. It has to be signed before October 1. So that's done.
And now back to the other side. We have some National Transit Database requirements that we
need to deliver. That's some data requirements as well as a narrative report. 2020 has been a
difficult year for all of us and for RTD, but kind of continuing that theme, we really have to plan
for change, to plan because things change. And Asset Management is, after all, about planning
for our assets.
And not having a plan is basically saying that we're going to be reactive and behind the curve
and that's what we want. Of course, that's not what we want. That if we're not doing mid and
long-term asset planning we're saying that nothing's going to change, and that everything is good
the way it is. I don't think so.
The thing about the assets is they're like people. They're always aging and in decay. I don't like it
but I can't change it.
It's not like taking a picture. Our assets are always under the forces of nature and time, meaning
the decay is happening. It reminds me of an old song lyric, "rust never sleeps". So anyways, we
talked about the elements of the TAMP plan and the layers of accountability back in September.
But what's changed since then as we've completed that 2020 TAMP and we've shared it with our

planning partners as required-- so that's the Federal Transit Administration, that's the Denver
Regional Council of Governments, and that's the Colorado Department of Transportation.
So it's also worth noting the intent of this regulation and that the Board is the regulatory body,
and the law requires agency accountability, and that's done through the accountable executive,
and that's the CEO. So we don't get to evaluate our own plan for compliance or performance to
the standard. We're accountable to auditors against the standards. So on packet page 62, we
covered this last time, but the expectations are pretty clear. Asset management is the
management system that we use for the management of the district's assets.
But kind of a little bit of management systems 101. You have to point a system at something.
You need to aim at a target if you plan to hit it. And that's our accountable executive. Our new
CEO, Ms. Johnson, sets the asset system strategy, so strategy is what winning looks like. And
then we deliver the tactics and plan, including the execution schedules to deliver on her vision.
The asset management system is the machine or mechanism that really supports and delivers her
asset-related objectives. It's how the legislation is written and it's how our Asset Management
System is structured. So page 63, even with COVID, our agency purpose and asset objectives
really haven't changed.
But what did change were the constraints. Even prior to COVID, the FTA had introduced this
idea that the public transit agencies are not doing a good job of taking care of things, that we
were delivering more things than we could fund. They even told us that there wasn't going to be
enough money, and now with COVID, things have just gotten much worse. But our purpose and
agency objectives, the asset objectives didn't change.
So again, remember, we talked about it in September, understanding the opportunity costs
associated with our decisions. I don't actually remember which Director said it, but someone
actually said it better, that saying yes is saying no to all other alternatives. And with that is really
this understanding of the intergenerational liabilities that we're delivering with all of our assets.
Like, we have a lot of long-life assets. So what are we leaving behind? So again, the FTA's intent
was to reinforce this idea of stewardship and shift the focus from expansion to taking care of
what we have. So RTD will have more than $300 million in asset backlog before we reach the
end of this current mid-term financial plan. What we leave for the next generation is our legacy.
And that's good and bad, right?
So 64, just to wrap this up. I hope the big takeaway from tonight is that we need to embrace
stewardship, meaning preserving what we have for the future. So what's our responsibility as
stewards of public assets? At the core, it's simple.
We have to carefully balance preservation and expansion. And of course, that's easy when
resources are abundant. But it's this second part. The second part of stewardship is where it gets
difficult, when preservation and expansion conflict. It's in those instances where good asset
management principles kind of dictate that preservation should prevail.

And I think if 2020 is really proven or taught us anything else, it's that abundance isn't
guaranteed. So 2021 is going to be filled with a lot of difficult decisions that have to be made.
There will be conflicts with constrained resources and we need to preserve and utilize our
existing asset base prior to investing in enhancements and expansion. And that's sort of the
message of the TAMP.
I want to say thanks for your time. Again, we have a plan. I'm confident that we will do well in
an audit, and that it will continue to deliver value for RTD. I hope I kept it short enough and
delivered on the key messages. Again, my apologies for the audio problems starting out there. I
was trying to use a headset.
KATE WILLIAMS: Very nice. Thank you, Mr. Cripps. Mr. Meader, do you have anything else
you want to add to that?
MIKE MEADER: No, I don't. If there are any questions immediately that anyone has, we're
happy to answer them.
KATE WILLIAMS: I will go around the Board members and ask that by name. And we'll go
from the front. Director Broom, are you with us?
BOB BROOM: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUSEK: Thanks. And thanks for the report. I actually [LAUGHS] shouldn't say this is a
surprise, but I really read it and it's quite interesting. Do we know, I mean, anyone have an idea
why-- so in 2012, MAP- 21 (Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act) goes through.
But it wasn't until 2016 that the FTA mandates TAMPs. Why the lag? Or is it just because it's a
function of the federal government?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Cripps?
LOU CRIPPS: Yeah, this is Lou Cripps. So there's an NPRM process that happens. So
effectively, there's the law and then there's the rule-making for compliance to the law. And that
took several years for it to be completed.
VINCE BUSEK: Got it. Got it. It's kind of what I thought. But thanks so much. It was great
report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with Director Buzek. It was a good report. But I think your summary
and your conclusion regarding the tension between the preservation and expansion was definitely
underscored by our previous dialogue regarding utilizing the FasTracks balances to preserve our
operations and maintenance without furthering expansion at this point in time. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Lou. Can you quickly describe, since so much of this relates to
money or budgets-- and in prior conversations, study sessions, and so forth, Heather McKillop,
for example, would talk about the asset management plan and setting our goals relative to
funding for that. But tell me, if you could, how your system is integrated into the recommended
budget? How does that connection happen?
LOU CRIPPS: OK, let me take a crack at this. This is Lou Cripps. So each individual asset class
has an asset class strategy that we use. And we incorporate that asset management prioritization
process, and that delivers the prioritized list of projects which make up the renewal bucket, and
then that is fed into the mid-term financial plan.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, that's really interesting. That makes sense. We've seen the list before,
but now I know how that's getting codified. Is it discussed and massaged, like, by the senior
leadership team, or how do you arrive at those priorities?
LOU CRIPPS: This is Lou Cripps. And we do have an investment prioritization process that we
follow. And we use asset information, which then feeds to the Asset Management Working
Group, which is a group of subject matter experts from the different areas of the organization
where we're able to kind of, not only take the prioritized list of each different group, but then
prioritize across the different groups. Then, that information is compiled into that single list that
we feed into the mid-term financial plan. But at that point, then SLT does have the option to, A,
ask additional questions for more information, but also B, kind of make adjustments based on
other agency objectives that might kind of-- influencing pressures outside of the asset
management system.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. Thank you very much. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, good information here. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And thank you, Madam Chair. Lou, you're awesome. Thank you so much.
I've enjoyed working with you over the years. I think, certainly, we can consider our real estate is
a lot of assets, and we need to manage it. Can you make some comments about our real estate
holdings that-- I've just always been very concerned that a lot of the real estate assets we have are
sort of-- we're leaving a lot of money on the table. Can you talk to that?
LOU CRIPPS: So this is Lou Cripps, Senior Manager, Asset Management. Director Folska, the
one thing that I would say about real estate that makes it slightly different is we focus mostly on
existing assets that are physical in nature and have decay in condition and performance or at risk
over time. We're always trying to balance that cost, risk, and performance over different time
horizons.
Real estate falls into sort of a different category, and it's handled in a different group in the
organization. And that's because it doesn't necessarily degrade or depreciate over time. It actually
can, oftentimes, appreciate or increase in value over time. So those things are more a inventory

item, but not handled in the same manner. So those are handled in real property, which is under
strategic planning.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you so much. Yup, that's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: MK, thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thank you. Interesting report, and I appreciate your explanation. I
have no questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I had to mute myself, sorry. I wanted to Thank you for the report. It
was so well-written. I really-- I guess we're all transportation geeks because I actually enjoyed
reading it. But it really was well-written. Thank you.
I have one question, and it has to do with the summation at the end about our responsibility as
stewards of public resources and talking about where there's a conflict between preservation and
expansion. And I'm just wondering how that might impact our ideas for abstracts and finishing
the corridors.
There is a legal mandate to do so. It seems to me that that has to be taken into account also, while
at the same time, before we make any decisions about anything, we need to be thoroughly
grounded in what the costs are going to be and make sure that we can do it sustainably. What's
your comment about that issue and your summation?
LOU CRIPPS: This is Lou Cripps. So I firmly believe that RTD needs to deliver on its
commitments, and we also need to consider system modernization. But those things have to be
carefully balanced, and that's the principles that we try and use in asset management. Clearly, our
group focuses on the asset management system more and that we provide information to the
decision makers so that we provide information for those type of decisions so that the options
and the trade-offs are understood. It's not that we do or don't do anything or make any particular
recommendation. It's that we provide information so that those decisions and the impacts are
actually understood as best as possible.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good job there, Mr. Cripps. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Interesting-- no questions and comments, though. Thank you, ma'am. Dr.
Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Good report, good presentation. Nothing further-- thanks.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I was going to ask a rhetorical question
of Mr. Cripps, but Director Folska actually beat me to it. I just wanted to make sure that it was
clear so that any person who is not familiar with what we achieve in this particular asset
reporting plan was not confused by the fact-- excuse me-- that the real estate assets were not
included therein.
So I appreciate the fact that has been explicated further on this record. And I thank you very
much. And again, congratulations on an excellent report wrote. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Mr. Cripps, always a pleasure to hear you present, just like everybody
else on staff. One of the concerns I had about truncating the mid-term financial plan and stopping
at least public process on the Reimagine RTD effort is that I think it masks our future asset
needs.
So like we've seen in some of the larger properties, when things aren't maintained well, disasters
happen. Without the foresight of what needs to be replaced, 4 5, 6 years down the road, I'd hate
for RTD to be in that position. I don't think we will be. I think you guys will keep an eye on it.
But the public won't have that foresight about what's old and what needs to be replaced in those
years. When people get a mortgage, it's for 30 years, 15 years, something like that. And I have
no-- I have no idea what my income's going to be or if I'll have one, but I still budget out for that
length of time.
I think that we should have that same responsibility in commitment to our public so they can see
what our responsibilities are. Once again, thanks for the report. I'm going to miss this. That's it,
thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thanks, Madam Chair. Good points, Director Walker. Lou and Mike,
thank you for a very comprehensive and interesting report, both in the written and the oral
formats. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to also congratulate
Lou for such an outstanding report, and Mr. Meader. That's all Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Meader and Mr. Cripps, I also enjoyed this
and have always. So I think we're done. We appreciate your work, and we will excuse you from
the mic and move on to the next item. Don't go far, Mr. Meader-- I think that you are up next for
the CSMS update. What would you like to tell us?

MIKE MEADER: Excuse me. Thank you, Madam Chair. We're also providing the quarterly
update on the development of our safety management system, and I'll ask that Dan McClain, our
Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental take several minutes to emphasize some important
aspects of our SMS development and answer any questions that you might have regarding the
employee safety information we also included in your packet. So with that, I'll throw it over to
Dan. Dan, go ahead.
DAN MCCLAIN: Thanks, Mike. This is Dan McClain, the Senior Manager of Safety,
Environmental, for RTD. Want to start out on this presentation with the safety performance data,
and there's about five slides in here. But a couple points that I'd really like to make-- it starts on
your packet, number 137, page 137.
And just 138 kind of shows our performance over the last three years. You'll notice that 2020 is
lower than 2019, and that's on 139. But if you look at it overall of a period of time that we've
had, the number of injuries we've had, we're going to end up-- this is as of October. We're
probably going to end up around 380 for the number of injuries that we've had this year,
workplace injuries.
And I don't want to make light of that. That is just a number. But that's that many employees that
have had an event that could have been life changing. In fact, on the next slide, 132 of our
employees had life-changing events where they had a lost-time injury. We had a significant
amount of lost-time injuries, mostly because of the way our contract's structured. But a lot of our
injuries do lead to some kind of disability that they're unable to work the following day or
several of the following days.
Both that and the injury causes kind of lead to where our targets get for the PTAST and where
we're focusing our efforts on around occupational health and safety. I'd like to transition now to
kind of bus and rail. One thing I want to make-- here, on bus, we did have what we all know, a
reduction in service.
But in bus, we sort of didn't end that-- we had to run a lot more buses to provide social
distancing. And so the amount of reduction here in accidents and preventable accidents has a lot
to do with what bus to react to what they did with the time of having some extra driver time.
They had training on Smith Systems. They did more driver training, which resulted in what I feel
is a substantial reduction in accidents. And I think they did a great job with that. And I hope we
can continue to maintain that. We'll go to rail safety and rail safety.
These are-- this slide shows the reportable events that are of such significance or of a high
enough gravity that they have to be report it to the FDA or the PUC within two hours. That's
serious injuries, grade crossings, derailments, contact with other personal property rail-on-rail
accidents.
And year-to-date in October, we're at 22. But again, we have had significant rail service
reduction. This isn't normalized at all. But that' where we are year to date. The bigger story in the
rail safety comes with PUC compliance. And the change that we spoke of the last time we

talked-- we talked about the change from an FTA rule that was 659, and I have a slide that'll
show you the statistic 73. And It's a total change in how we do things with that we're on our first
round of audits this year that are under the 673.
We have split out our audits. We used to do joint audits with PUC, and now we do internal safety
reviews. That's the RTD audit. And then the PUC comes in and does their audit after ours.
In our first winner internal safety audits, we found we had two findings internally and six
recommendations. We have just completed the summer audit. And we have-- currently, in the
form we're about to report to the TSA, we had 13 recommendations and 17 findings.
The spring audit, which is the PUC version of our winter audit, was completed. And they sent us
11 findings. The fall audit is underway, and it will likely have more than that, probably closer to
20 findings in my discussions with the PUC. These audits have changed significantly.
And in most of the audits, it will require the PUC interviewing senior leadership and members of
the Board. That's just how the regulations are written. And the second level that we have here is
we've had our first independent PUC event investigation started on a train-on-train incident that
we had in the Elati yard.
We haven't had any independent audits or investigations by PUC ever in the past. This is the first
one. And they have stepped up their activity, again, based on 673. Now I'm going to take a quick
brief update on the COVID. We'll go through this quickly.
I do this because Safety and Environmental, we're responsible for COVID from March until
November 1. So we have transferred that to HR as of November 1. This slide was made in
October, and that 1,100 was extrapolated. It's only around 700 employees that have used
emergency leave so far. Updating the totals from the confirmed case in RTD, we have
confirmed, as of this weekend, 106 confirmed cases of COVID in RTD.
We have outbreaks as listed there, and we're currently managing those with the local health
departments, Denver or Tri-County or whoever the facility's in right now. Let's talk a little bit
about where we were. Let's go to slide-- page 151. This page is-- the FTA slide that I shared with
you about a year ago, it's kind of showing FTA's version of where we were and where we're
going.
And this is a significant change from going to-- from a compliance-based approach-- rules and
procedures, punitive, blame-oriented culture, and reactive to events that occur-- to what we're
going to do now, what we're trying to get to now. This safety management system's principlebased, risk-based, collaborative and trust, and proactive. So this is a huge culture change for
RTD. It's a huge shift for all of the management, all of the employees, from going from one to
the other.
And go to the next slide, which is 152. Again, an FTA slide, but what safety culture is and how
we change it. Safety culture is the shared values and actions and behaviors that demonstrate a

commitment to safety over competing goals. That always-- that hasn't always been the case at
RTD.
Safety management systems is formal. And I will tell you that most of our findings on these
audits have been because we didn't have anything written down. We didn't have a process in
place that said how we did what we were supposed to do. We have really good process in place,
but it's all personnel-based or memory-based, or it's just how we've done it in the past and there's
nothing written.
It is organization-wide and it's top-down. It's really kind of like if you look at page 153, this is
from the consultant's presentation in July that was given to the Board of where
We currently are in RTD. We're at an infancy in our SMS. We have some of the basic
frameworks, but most of it's inadequate. And that's reflective in the audit findings that we're
currently seeing. Where we'd like to get is to be consistent where we had this in place, that we
were having minimal findings in our audits.
But that's a journey. And how long it takes us to get that journey depends on- it depends on you.
It depends on SLT. It depends on our accountable executive RGM. The rule actually states the
ultimate responsibilities and accountability for implementation. Maturity and maintenance of the
safety management system falls on the Board of Director and the accountable executive, the GM.
You are the folks that set that culture. You set-- you have the resources, you have both human
and capital. You make the decisions of where that goes and what it looks like. And you set that
culture, and you set that speed of maturity in place that allows us to get where we need to be in
the safety management system.
What we ask for you, and what does that look like? We ask that you would ask us tough
questions. Be curious around safety for the senior staff leadership team and hold us accountable.
We are here-- the safety team, all of Mike's team are here to help us better understand our roles
and responsibilities, your roles and responsibilities, and we'll happily set up.
We'll go on the field with you. We'll help you understand better of what that looks like on a day
to day-- day to day activities, what it looks like for a Manager, what it looks like for a Senior
Manager, what it looks like for a Mechanic to be that. We ask you to demonstrate in all your
actions that safety is a core value.
I know we start all our meetings with safety is a core value. But saying it is a little different than
demonstrating it. Demonstrating means your actions have to reflect that that's what you really
need. And you know, I've always said-- and it's served me well-- if your son or daughter or
mother or father was working for RTD, are we doing enough?
Think about that. Would have someone come to work for us and be proud they work for us? And
lastly it's kind of how we're going to get there and many of these-- this roadmap got pushed from
2020, and it's the same thing. We all need clear expectations of what we say and do, what our
roles are to support the safety management system. Safety, ultimately, is an operational

responsibility, and everyone has to have a role in making the safety management system work
from the CEO, from the Board, to the engineers, to the maintenance folks, to the SM people, to
the driver out on the route.
We're going to frame the risk registry. We're going to continue the internal safety reviews for all
modes. Next year, 2021, we want to bring the bus audits into the place. We need advanced-- we
need to enhance our investigation into incidents, find causal factors, and use that data collection
to be better.
And again, all of the rest that's in here will help us get better. Reviewing job requirements to
reduce exposure to injuries, that's how we build the goals. And the last slide here on 159 is kind
of how we set our goals to improve. And if you look back at the injuries, again, we're at 301
people injured since October in RTD.
It's in these categories, and this is where we can make a difference. And so that's where I'll leave
you. I think, as I said, without your involvement. And that's kind of like the metro link video that
went along with the July presentation. It's really hard for someone to phone in their support for
safety on a Board or in the senior leadership team.
You've got to have hands on. You've got to be-- you've got to be in that, and you've got to listen
to the people that are doing the work. So with that, I'll take any questions. Hopefully I wasn't too
long.
KATE WILLIAMS: Nope, you did a good job. Thank you very much, Mr. McClain. I'm going to
run through the Board in normal alphabetical order and see who has questions or comments. So I
would start with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. This past few months, there's been some civil unrest
in downtown Denver, and there were decisions made to curtail RTD service in the area. How did
safety play into that decision-making process?
DAN MCCLAIN: So I'll defer to Mike too because it was safety and security involved with the
whole team. Michael Ford's team, Fred Williams' team were all looking, and listening, and
monitoring. Chief Grado has all the intel that comes from all of the police agencies and
everything that's out there. And Tim Lucero does a great job of putting contingency plans in
place and have them ready to act on. And we're just all part of that team.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah. Yeah, thank you, Dan. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer. Just as Dan said, we weighed a lot of the information we had coming in. And of course,
our primary responsibility and goal, always, is the safety and security of our employees and of
our infrastructure.
And based upon information and just things as they were happening, it was a very dynamic
situation. We made the decision to ensure the safety of our employees and our assets and to just
kind of move the perimeter of our service out so that we could ensure that happened. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Right. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the report. No questionns, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dan, for a great report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. I think one of the hard things to do,
but the most impactful, is saying we need to change how we're doing things and recognizing that
and laying out the path forward. So thanks for that.
I'd like to go out with you. You offered sort of a field tour. I'd like to take you up on that, and I
can follow up offline if that's OK. Thank you.
DAN MCCLAIN: Absolutely. I encourage it.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right, good deal. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Excellent presentation. No comments other
than that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissiinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much for the presentation. I don't have any questions right
now. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Yes, also, very good presentation. And it's very sobering to realize
the great responsibility that, on the Board and senior management for the safety of our workers
and the people who use our system. And obviously we have to take it very, very carefully and
sincerely and do more and become safer. So thank you for that reminder, and I hope that in the
future, we will continue to move forward and improve this. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, yes. I will start with page 142 in our packet titled "Injury
Causes Year to Date, 2020," and we've got the pie chart. And there's some that may be very
obvious that it was on the job, maybe at District Shops or something like that. But some, I'm not
clear on them. That would be like striking against or stepping on or a cut, puncture, scrape.
Where I'm going with this is if there's a way to break down what-- I'm just trying to-- this is the
point of my question. How many passengers or riders were the ones who created an injury to an
RTD employee out of this pie chart?

DAN MCCLAIN: So that's-- most of what's on here is employee injuries in the course of their
work. The ones where we can-- most of the ones that we can say a passenger may have caused it- of course, we have a whole different set of passenger injuries. So if a passenger gets injured on
a bus, we have a whole set of reports, which isn't in this data. It's captured by the Street
Supervisors.
But we have had an uptick-- we had an uptick in operator's assaults, and those are in the struck or
injured by, for most of those. And those occurred throughout the pandemic, but uptick-- quite a
spike initially when we went back to charging front door boarding and charging for fares. But
they are-- I look at the reports every day that come through. And I think we have two to five a
week of an operator getting assaulted. So those-- and I'm not sure if that answered your question,
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, you did a very good job. And so if a operator is spit on, which I've
heard more than a few times, that's going to be somewhere in this chart potentially, but obviously
if you get punched by somebody, yeah. But-DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. Yep.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, OK. Yeah, you did a very good job of answering that. OK, then
moving on, and I'm scrolling down. Now I'm on packet page 146, titled "Rail Safety 2020." And
the third bullet mentions a PUC audit, and there's a fall audit underway, which states the CEO
and Board members interviewed. This may have totally flown over my head.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, so that was-NATALIE MENTEN: But I don't remember that.
DAN MCCLAIN: But that is scheduled for next Wednesday. It was initially scheduled for
yesterday, but due to some illnesses that we had, we went ahead and postponed that. It is a
requirement under 673 that-- and under the state safety oversights, their questions is that they
need to see how the Board and the CEO are involved in different processes around the safety
management system.
And that's what that's about. It's not all the Board members. It's just select Board members. And
so I believe the one on Monday or on next Wednesday is Ms. Johnson, Chair, Rivera-Malpiede,
and Director Tisdale. OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right-- all right, moving on then. And I'm just going on to my next
highlighted bullet point, and that is under your page 156, you're entitled to your role and
responsibility. I'll just go with the first bullet point, that sometimes our directors don't know what
questions to ask, and that's probably not a surprise to hear.
DAN MCCLAIN: And I guess that's my invitation, Director Menten. Come walk with my safety
team, come walk with Mike. And we'll talk to the folks out there. Even during COVID, we can
do this. it's socially distanced and masked, and we're happy to let you see how the system works.

But you talk to the employees and the managers and the supervisors and see what their
challenges are because that's what our team does all the time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so as I look back over the years on the Board, I wish I would have
asked this question more. But I'm going to ask you. What is the question that you have not been
asked and that you're surprised in, after multiple presentations? You walk away going, no Board
Director's ever asked me this, and I would have expected them to ask me. What would be that
question, Dan?
DAN MCCLAIN: So Director Menten, coming from industry, outside of government in here,
one thing that all of the leaders always wanted to know was the safety of their people. How many
injuries have we had? What are the injuries? What are we doing about that injury? And they
would be specific in that and really curious and passionately concerned and care about the
employees being injured.
Why do we have so many injuries? So my initial entry into RTD, it was to even find how many
injuries we had. So most of this data comes from our comp cases that are-- we have to do to pay
for them. And I go in and mine at every month. So yeah, just ask, why?
Why are people getting hurt? Why did that train derail? Or why did they go into a corner, into a
curve and overspeed? Ask those questions. And the great thing is, when people in leadership ask
those questions, people that know what happens react and try to find the answers. But when you
don't ask those questions, they don't.
NATALIE MENTEN: Good answer. Page 159, "Public Safety-- Public Transit Agency Safety
Plan Goals for 2021." You've got listed 25% reduction in Strains. And the first bullet point is
develop better methods and processes for lifting and handling baggage. Considering COVID,
everybody can wear safety gloves, I guess. But should we be even handling baggage? If that's
enough of an issue that it's one of the bullet points, what are your thoughts on that?
DAN MCCLAIN: So the COVID and the service contamination, we've worked very well-NATALIE MENTEN: And it's more about the lifting. I'm sorry to interrupt. But I mentioned
COVID, but it's more about the lifting. Go ahead. Sorry.
DAN MCCLAIN: So last year, 2019, we did get the restriction of weight of the baggage to be
under 50, like the airports do. Typically where we have these injuries are in our airport runs and
our college runs, our over-the-road coaches. And we just need more focus on this and to talk to
the people that do it and then see if we can find what we need.
We do have two physical therapists that are trained to look at how your body moves, how you
lift, how you push. And then we can look at different mechanical means to do this. But it just
hasn't been a focus.

And as I said in my last question, Director Menten, is that when you don't-- people aren't looking
and saying, hey, this is a problem. They're not putting resources to that. And that's what we're
trying to shine the light on here.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you, Dan. And I do want to say that when we went to Blake
today, I did fill out my form and take my temperature. So-DAN MCCLAIN: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for your presentation, and my temp was good. So that's all I've
got for you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. I think we all learned something there.
Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And yes, I absolutely did learn something. And I'm
not going to try to follow that. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: K, I'm done with that. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I will follow Director Mihalik's lead. Thank you, Madam.
KATE WILLIAMS: K, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Thanks for the presentation. I'm wondering, what recourse do
employees-- and this might be an awkward question. If you don't want to answer, that's fine. I
might understand. But I'm wondering what recourse there is if the Board doesn't support these
measures, so like authorization of contracts for safety equipment.
I remember we had a long discussion over a couple of items that we wanted to purchase over the
years who were not supporting a sustainable service plan so that our operators are overworked,
working six days a week, not by choice. What recourse do either the public or the people have if
the Board doesn't support that?
DAN MCCLAIN: Director Walker, again, this is Dan McClain, Senior Manager of Safety,
Environmental. I think some of the things that we're putting in place for the safety management
system and the past is the hazard reporting that can be done anonymous and our internal safety
reviews. And so much like Anne Marie's auditing, this, our internal safety reviews are looked at.
The findings are tracked. We have to close them. And I would say the public would have all of
this is CORA-able. So that's the recourse they would have. And again, I would think it's on us as
RTD safety senior leadership to make the case to do the right thing.
Yeah, yeah. And I agree. I also think it's incumbent upon the Board. You know, since 2015 when
the operator shortage became a problem nationwide, I know we'd had a couple of presentations
by staff, one by Mr. Meader, one by Ms. McKillop, and had several APTA conferences. I heard

about how this operator shortage was a safety issue-- not just an inconvenience to the public, but
actual hazard to the public because of our-- because of the state of our operators-- mental,
emotional, physical, financial conditions. But that's fine. Thank you for your work. Appreciate
all you folks do. And that's it. Take care.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Dr. Walker. Dr. Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate the exchange between Dan and my
colleagues. Nothing further from me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Dan, thank you. That was-- I always find your
presentations so insightful. One of the things that I think about every time I hear about a suicide
or a death by train is, what kind of mental health support services do we give to our staff and to
patrons who witness that kind of an incident?
DAN MCCLAIN: Madam Chair, I believe-- so I worked with risk on this because part of it is
that when an operator strikes somebody, we have to be more active than just passively offering
an EAP to an emergency assistance program. So what we try to get them to do is to immediately
fill out a compensation claim.
And then risk can get them to our folks that we have that have dealt with folks that have had
similar events, with a much better outcome. Now, as far as the patrons, I'm not familiar with
what we do with them. But I know that we really try to get those in-- our operators in because it's
a traumatic experience.
It's a life-changing experience when you hit somebody when you're operating, whether it's a car
or train or bus. And so we try to be aggressive when that happens. I'm in contact with Lisa
Stauff, who is our Risk Manager, and we try to get that taken care of through the appropriate
division.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Do we have a victim advocate that works with our
staff?
DAN MCCLAIN: I would have to defer that question. I am not aware of anything we have. But
Raquel McMurry, maybe, our Senior Manager of HR. We may have something there. I'm just
not aware. I just know that we have internal to the employees.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, this is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
MIKE MEADER: --Mike Meader.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
MIKE MEADER: Oh, OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead.
MIKE MEADER: I was going to say, we do follow up very closely with the employees. We try
to remove them from the scene just as soon as we can. And we follow up on a very regular basis
to ensure they're getting whatever support they feel they need. Everybody's just a little bit
different.
And we do ensure that constant contact is being made and we're helping them to the extent we
can. I can tell you in some instances at some of these scenes, we may be approached by some of
the passengers who are being removed from the train or something like that for the investigation.
We do encourage them, try to answer any particular questions we can to give them some closure,
so to speak, but encourage them to get help and talk to people as well. So we do try to do that,
but obviously can't force or track necessarily what they decide to do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all, Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all. Thank you, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Thank you, Mr. Meader. Thank you, Dan. That is-sobering is the word that came to my mind. And I'm sure that we all offer you an apology for any
lack on our part-- for any lack of involvement that we may have had. And I think we will all
think about it going henceforth, so I appreciate your report. Gentlemen, thank you both, unless
you have anything else you want to add.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
DAN MCCLAIN: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. That's good to go. OK, we have a number of information
items that were presented as part of the packet. I am open to entertaining any questions that
anybody has on any of those. If I do not hear any questions, we're going to move on past them.
I'll go down and ask by name, and if you have a question on any of those seven items, please feel
free. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No question, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek. Giving people time to unmute. I'll come back. Director
Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No question, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Welcome. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one question, and that is, if Board Directors did want to get a hold of
or be regularly provided with the list of commendations, what would be the easiest way to do
that? Is that available on the Hub? Commendations for bus drivers or train operators or security
or customer service agents or whatever the commendations may come from.
KATE WILLIAMS: Wow. Mr. Ford, perhaps, can you speak to that?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO of customer care, but we can work to help coordinate
that. They have the stockpile of commendations, and we can help connect you or give that
information out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Menten, did that help?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I found the information to be singularly informative. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: [CHUCKLES]. OK, you're welcome. Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thanks. You're welcome. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Sorry, I have one quick question, maybe for Dave Jensen. I thought-- and
we can't find the chart on on-time statistics, but I noticed the N Line was at 85% during the time
period noted, perhaps under a bit of some of the other ones. Do we know the reason for that?
And certainly can be handled offline, Dave, if you don't have it at your fingertips tonight.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, this is Dave Jensen, H&M Rail Operations. I can speak with you offline if
you want to get into the weeds about it. But in general, there was one weather event. There were
a number of technology issues with our PTC that caused delays. And it amounts to new operators
with new controllers on a new system, really learning how to operate efficiently. So we expect it
to rise, but essentially that's really why 85%.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, thank you very much. That's adequate. I don't need any followup, Dave. Thank you, Madam Chair.
DAVE JENSEN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir, speaking as Madam Chair. Madam Chair RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions or comments.
This has been a sobering conversation. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. I agree. I'd like to thank all the staff who put the time and
effort into the report that we all got that are available as part of this packet. I, myself, do not have
any questions related to any of these items. So it looks like we have been through the information
part of the packet. We're going to go now to other matters. Is there anyone who has other matters
to bring before this Committee?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I heard Shelley Cook first. Yes, go ahead, Director.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And Director Tisdale mentioned this earlier, but I wanted to
bring in some other points because they relate to the presentations we've just heard. We will be-Director Tisdale and I will be submitting probably the packet from Thursday for next week's
Board meeting, at Chair Rivera-Malpiede's request, a report on our work on committee structure.
And one big piece of that is looking at whether we should go to smaller committees. And among
a number of pros and cons, one pro might be that, because we take up everything as a committee
of the whole-- for every committee, I think there's a real pressure as we get into these meetings,
and we're four hours in, not to ask questions.

And so when the comment was made that we aren't necessarily asking the hard questions, it
might in part be because these meetings are going so long, whereas if you are meeting-- if you're
a participant in a smaller committee, and you don't have to participate in all the committees, then
that gives you the chance to really roll up your sleeves and ask the questions, but in a way that, in
an overall fashion, economizes on our time. So I just wanted to kind of stress that because it was
to remain to the points that were made earlier today. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Director Cook. My response to that would be once you
ask those questions in your smaller committee, how does that information then get to the rest of
the directors and also to the public? So that would just be something to think about. Is there
anyone else who has other matters for this committee?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore, I think.
TROY WHITMORE: That is me. Thank you very much. This has been a sobering meeting, but
very necessary to cover topics like audits and safety. I'd like to end with just a bit of good news.
I'd like to share a short piece of correspondence that I received last week from a constituent of
mine in my district.
And I forwarded this on to AGM Fred Worthen and our CEO GM Johnson and our Board Chair
Rivera-Malpiede. I'd like to share with you because I think it pays tribute to our operators and
the very difficult jobs that they have and under the stress and strain of COVID and worrying
about their future.
We had a gentleman perform just a simple but a very thoughtful task that I'd like to share and
have on the record. So I'll read the email I received on Thursday. "My name is Celeste, and I live
in Brighton, Colorado. A few weeks ago, my 16-year-old had an unfortunate experience of
driving off at a gas station with her wallet on top of her car.
"It was a very traumatic experience for my daughter and her parents. One of your RTD drivers, a
gentleman by the name of Marvin, miraculously saw my daughter's wallet on the side of the road
by one of his stops at Bridge Street and 50th. And he picked it up. He called my daughter's
school and started the process for us to get the wallet back.
"I just wanted to let you know that you have a man of great integrity working for you. He did not
have to do that. He went out of his way to help my daughter. I do not know if you have an
employee of the month or week, but if you do, I would highly recommend this gentleman. He
was a miracle in our lives."
And it was great to get that message in, to share it, and I know Fred has checked in and knows
who Marvin is. I had not had the opportunity to reach out to the gentleman, but just one example
of the great people we have working for us and people that do the right thing. Thank you for your
indulgence today and letting me read this message.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. That was a nice touch on what has been a
solemn and educational meeting. And I think we have lots of great people. It's nice to hear about
one of them specifically. OK, is there anyone else who has other matters to bring before this
committee? OK, crickets. I hear 9 o'clock crickets. That being so, our next meeting is scheduled
for January 12, 2021. I'd like to thank all of the staff who stayed with us through all of this, and I
would entertain a motion to adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else want to go home? Thank you. That being said, this meeting is
adjourned. I'll see you all next week. Goodbye.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
SPEAKER: Thank you.

