1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, July 1, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Absent
Present

7:08 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:08 PM
7:07 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

7:06 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

7:09 PM
7:09 PM
7:07 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:08 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

7:10 PM
7:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:07 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

7:07 PM

Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Cory
Granrud, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Ron Boshman, Eugene Howard, Ryan Murphy, Jacob Rogers, Larry
Tenenholz, Monte Whaley, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions presented to the Board.

C. Updates

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, from Squire Patton Boggs, noted that there will not be a lot of
business in D.C. after the July 4th recess.
Mike Dino said the House passed their version of the Transportation
Appropriation’s Bill on June 10th. The Senate sub-committee passed their
version on June 5th. The bill is stalled out in the Senate because of
disagreements on amendments. The Senate’s version is more generous
towards transit. Squire Patton Boggs will continue to monitor these items as
they are of interest to RTD. Appropriations will possibly be addressed during
a “lame duck” session after the November election.
He stated that of near term concern for RTD is the Transportation
Reauthorization and the Highway Trust Fund Solvency. He pointed out that
Transportation Secretary Foxx wrote to each State Department of
Transportation’s Chief Executive Officer addressing this matter. Plans to
address funding on the highway aspect will start to be implemented in
August. Any impacts for transit funding will be seen in December through
formula money. Full funding grant agreement will not be affected by the
fund’s insolvency as they come from a different line item. No significant
ideas have been put forth to extend the highway trust fund.
Director Lubow asked if bus services would decrease if formula funding is
affected. Mike Dino said that he could not answer that question. He

pointed out that RTD has always been able to cope effectively. Terry
Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, replied that RTD does not anticipate
reaching that point. RTD currently receives about 12% or $55 million for its
preventive maintenance. Staff is working on a letter on behalf of General
Manager Phil Washington to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
addressing those concerns.
Director Hoy asked to confirm that the full funding grant agreement payment
will remain the same for 2014. Mike Dino confirmed that there will be no
changes in the payment for 2014.
Director Folska expressed her concerns about RTD’s Trust Fund funding
since she believes there will not be a serious discussion about the matter in
Congress until January, 2015. She asked what part of RTD base operations
is funded by the Trust Fund. Terry Howerter said the preventive
maintenance comes from the Trust Fund. Director Folska said she was
under the impression that RTD Operations is funded from the Trust Fund.
She expressed her concern if there would be a necessity to operate from a
deficit, increase fares, or cut services. The last two scenarios would mean
RTD needs to give the public a six (6) months warning under Title VI. Terry
Howerter clarified that preventive maintenance is funded through the Trust
Fund through transfer of funds to transit funds. He further said that if $55
million would be lost it would have an impact on RTD and that would be
evaluated at that time. Director Folska asked for clarification on RTD’s
reserve funds. Terry Howerter said the RTD base has three (3) months of
reserve funds. FasTracks has two (2) months and funds are about to reach
the third month.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters presented to the Board.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 5, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 7:22 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

