Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 2, 2008
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 2, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, December 02, 2008 in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair; Lee Kemp, Barbara
Yamrick, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Bill Christopher, Dave
Ruchman, Noel Busck, Bill Elfenbein

Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Elfenbein

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed, Marla Lien, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Matt Knoedler (Patton Boggs), Julie McKenna, Jenifer Brandeberry,
Kent Bagley, Bill James, Tom Tobiassen, Roger Sherman, Kevin
Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Phuonglen Ngyuen (FRESC), Jack
O’Boyle
****
Vice-Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.

Call to Order:

I.

State Update  Status of RTD’s proposed 2009 Legislation – Jenifer Brandeberry gave this
update. Transportation will be a key issue in the legislature in 2009. Julie
McKenna spoke about Marla Lien’s concern about final ownership of rail lines
once they are abandoned. The governor’s office directed RTD to work with
the PUC. In a subsequent meeting, the PUC was very supportive of helping
RTD meet that goal. Their general counsel is studying the law to see if RTD
would qualify as a federal highway so as not to lose ownership of rail lines.
Chair Pulliam asked about legislation that may be coming down the line. Ms.
Brandeberry felt that there could be legislation that attempts to limit RTD’s
use of eminent domain. RTD is better prepared this year and has formed
some coalitions and has gathered support from many different sources.
Director Elfenbein asked if it will just be RTD that is targeted in this
legislation. Ms. Brandeberry said it really depends on the situation.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 2, 2008
Page 2 of 3
Director Pulliam asked about a possible bill regarding an appointed Board for
RTD instead of an elected Board. Ms. Brandeberry hasn’t really heard of this.
Director McMullen asked for a list of new legislators with their contact info.
Ms. Brandeberry said they would provide this for the Board.



Update on Governor’s Transportation Plan – Ms. Brandeberry said that the
Leadership in the Legislature seems to be waiting until the new
administration takes office and to see what kinds of commitments there may
be from the Federal government.
Director Kemp asked about the Governor’s focus and was concerned that it
was just bridges and roads. Ms. Brandeberry said that at the meetings the
focus has been much broader. The details of this plan are yet to be
determined. There is complete recognition of the District’s challenges and
that the District does need to be included in the Governor’s transportation
plan.
Cal Marsella spoke about the possibility that RTD may need to make its own
agenda separate from the Governor’s transportation plan. Ms. Brandeberry
said that timing is critical and that if RTD went out on its own, it may be
perceived in a very bad way. She stressed the need to work with our allies
and partners in the legislature.
Bill McMullen asked when the new State legislators are sworn in, and the
response was January 7, 2009.
Director Busck spoke about working through the lobbyists and perhaps
setting up a luncheon where the Board can really speak with the legislators.
Chair Pulliam spoke about perhaps having a coffee/breakfast with the
legislators but Sherry Ellebracht said that usually only the Capitol staff comes
and not the legislators.
Ms. Brandeberry said that the District could look at doing an Amendment 41
compliant event where the Board could interact with the legislators.

II.

Federal Update – Chair Pulliam introduced Matt Knoedler from the Patton Boggs
Denver office to give the Federal update.
 There is a second stimulus bill containing funding for transportation and
infrastructure projects. This is a much larger stimulus package and it is
expected to be passed soon after the inauguration. RTD has submitted a list
of ready to go projects to the Congressional authorizing committees. This list
includes money for DUS and the East and Gold lines.
 FY 2009 Appropriation cycle is incomplete. A continuing resolution to finance
the government was passed and will expire on March 6, 2009. Work on the
next appropriations cycle for Fiscal Year ‘10 begins in February/March 2009.
 SAFETELU reauthorization – The goal is to pass a bill by Memorial Day 2009.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, December 2, 2008
Page 3 of 3
Cal Marsella said that the District is working to coordinate the DUS request
with CDOT and the City and County of Denver.
Marla Lien wanted to know what they are going to ask for in the new stimulus
bill. Sherry Ellebracht said no one knows, it may be earmarks, it may be
grants. There will be infrastructure funding in it but beyond that, no one really
knows.
Sherry Ellebracht spoke about CDOT’s submittal for the stimulus package and
that Congress is being inundated with requests.
Director McMullen asked about the next economic snapshot. Staff is pushing
to get this included as part of the annual program review of FasTracks and it
will likely be in March 2009.
III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Date for Next Meeting - The next meeting of the Legislative Committee will be
determined at a later date.

VI.

Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 4:57 p.m.

