Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 19, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Thursday, April 17, 2007 at 4:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Bill
Christopher, Bruce Daly, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Barbara
Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Bruce Abel, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue,
Sherry Ellebracht, Carolyn Conover, Liz Telford, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, L.W. Morrow, Roger Chapin, Barry Reiling,
Jerry Arvidson, Bruce Behnke, Scott Chase, Ken Smith
****

Call to Order:

Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:06 p.m.

I.
II.

Federal Update – No update was given.
State Update
a. Status of RTD-related bills
i. SB 07-251, Privatization Bill – The sponsor of the bill, Senator Hagedorn, is
receptive to an amendment. It is not exactly as the Committee had hoped.
The amendment says that if the District and Union go to Interest Arbitration,
the contracting amount cannot be an item for discussion.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, discussed the two kinds of labor disputes;
interest arbitration (to prevent a strike and begin creation of a new contract)
and grievance arbitration. Grievance Arbitration could occur under a set
contract where if the Board gave work to the Union and then the next year
gave it to a contractor, the Union could file for grievance arbitration.
A copy of the amendment was distributed to the Committee.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007
Page 2 of 4
Cal Marsella clarified the issue, if the District goes to labor negotiations with
the union and they hit an impasse and both parties are sent to binding
arbitration, the amount that the District contracts cannot be an issue.
However, if the District was at a 54 percent contracted rate and dropped to 52
percent and then went back to 54 percent the union could grieve that. This is
the area that the bill does not cover.
Cal Marsella reviewed both motions from the last Legislative Committee
meeting. Director Christopher’s motion was to have no cap and no ceiling on
contracting and to have it not be a matter for collective bargaining. Director
Martinez’ motion was to go with the 55 percent cap and to make the
contracting amount not subject to collective bargaining.
Cal Marsella mentioned that the District is getting very close to 55 percent
contracted amount with the increase in access-a-Ride.
Director Yamrick made a motion to remain neutral on the bill if the amendment
is not accepted. There was no second so the motion died.
Director Kemp asked for clarification on the previous two motions. He was
wondering why the amount was capped rather than letting the Board decide.
Director Daly said that that the 55 percent cap was put in the bill to make it
acceptable to the Board and to the legislators.
Director Christopher said that his motion was to give Board total control in
deciding the mix of contracting percentage.
Director Daly said that the cap was to protect union jobs.
Director McMullen stressed that this is not the Board’s bill.
Motion:

Director Elfenbein made
motion for an
amendment that would
have no ceiling/no floor
and not an issue for
collective bargaining

Second:

Director Christopher
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

Director Elfenbein
withdrew the motion
following the discussion.
Director Christopher

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007
Page 3 of 4
withdrew his second.
Discussion: Director McMullen spoke to the union’s concern. Without a cap,
the union has no security.
Director Busck felt this was a “lose-lose” bill for the District.
Director Daly said that the union was comfortable with the resolution that the
Board recommended last week.
Director Busck felt that putting a new motion forward would send a very bad
message to the Union. He felt that it would be best for the Board to not take a
position on the bill.
Director Christopher said that the bill could have a huge financial impact on the
District the way the bill is written.
Cal Marsella said that the District’s lobbyist, Jenifer Brandeberry, feels this
amendment gets the District most of the way to where the Board wants to be.
The District’s best political resolution at this point would be to stick with the
position adopted at the last meeting, endorse the amendment and without the
amendment, oppose the bill.
Director Daly said that if the Board does not support the bill, the bill would be
killed.
Director Yamrick felt strongly that the bill should not be opposed. Director
McMullen felt that we should wait to see what happens with the amendment.
Chair Pulliam asked what the Committee wanted to do.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion that
the Committee will accept the
amendment as revised by Senator
Hagedorn and that the Board reserves
the right to take another position if the
amendment is not included.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. SB 07-219 Railroad Indemnification Bill – Chair Pulliam asked if the bill
passed. Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, reported that the
bill was up on 3rd reading today but she had not been updated if it passed.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007
Page 4 of 4
c. Update on bills that may impact the flow of SB-1 monies to transportation –
Chair Pulliam passed around a spreadsheet showing the affect that various bills
would have, if adopted, on the SB 97-1 and HB 02-1310 monies. Chair
Pulliam felt it was best for the Board to not take a position on any of these bills
at this point.
Ken Smith spoke to the spreadsheet and reviewed some of the fiscal notes.
Mr. Smith said the Governor’s office is committed to hold SB 97-1 harmless.
The administration is contemplating some reductions in year 1 impacts.
d. Marla Lien gave a brief update on Amendment 41. The legislation that was
introduced does not address special districts. If the bill passes, the District can
file for an opinion on whether the Board is subject to Amendment 41.
III. Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 4:52 p.m.

