2025-01-08
Special Executive Committee Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: Good afternoon. This is the Wednesday, January 8 Executive Committee. I will now
call to order. We are convened as of 3:00 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com And a link will be provided to you.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who like access
to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer. Benker. Treasurer Benker is not present. But I heard earlier that she might
be joining us later on. I assume that will be noted in the record if she joins us. And I am present as well. So
four out of the five are present. I also see that we have, all right, pardon me, I am viewing from a remote. I
see Director Paglieri. I see, I'm sorry, Director Chandler. Director-- who's in the back there?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Oh, that's Jack. That's Jack.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, Hi, Jack. I see Director Paglieri, Director Chandler. Who else am I missing?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: That's it.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Did you. Did you note Director Guzman on the-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, perfect. And Director Michael Guzman is virtual. Thank you very much for
accommodating. And thank you, everyone, for being present. I'd like to open public comment to anyone
who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either
raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
So I do not see anyone in public attendance in person. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised virtually? I
don't believe.
JACK KROLL: This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There are no individuals present
here in the room who have raised their hand in desire providing public comment, nor is there anyone joined
via Zoom who has raised their hand, indicating they would like to provide public comment. In anticipation
of your next question, no emails were received in advance of this meeting with respect to public comment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. With no participants in the queue, we'll close public comment at this time. Are
there any other matters to discuss during this time from any directors? Seeing none. I will move forward
now.
In a moment, the Committee will meet in executive session to receive legal advice regarding board, legal
authority, and director compliance with various applicable laws. I'd like to amend the motion to move into
executive session to state that the Executive Committee meeting will be deemed adjourned after adjourns
into the executive session. For public transparency, this means that once the Committee moves into
executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. So and to 24.6402
CRS for the newly elected director orientation, with general counsel to receive legal advice regarding board,
legal authority, and director compliance with various applicable laws. Do I have a mover?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is that Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Secretary Nicholson. Do I have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second. Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second. Whitmore. Thank you very much. So I have Second Vice Chair Whitmore is
a second. And Secretary Nicholson as the mover. The main meeting is adjourned into executive session.
Oh, pardon me.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just make sure no one's opposed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Pardon me. Anyone opposed? I do not see any opposition. Therefore, we have four
board members who are in favor. I do see Director-- or Treasurer Benker, I believe, just joined us. Is that
correct?
KAREN BENKER: Yes. Hello.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer Benker. So the main meeting is now adjourned into executive
session as of 3:06 PM.

