2025-06-10
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. I would like to call the Tuesday, June 10 Finance and
Planning Committee to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM. And I would respectfully ask everyone
attending the meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
office@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically
translated into Spanish. For anyone who would like access to a live transcription in Spanish, please email
the Board Office.
[SPANISH]

A live stream of this meeting is also available at RTD's YouTube page. I would like to call the role of the
committee members First-- sorry, Vice Chair Karen Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin, who is traveling and may be joining us by phone, but had let
me know that they would maybe not be participating as fully tonight. Director Lynn Guissinger. Director
Chris Gutschenritter. Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I'm here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Patrick O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am Chair Guzman. I am also present. I see for the record, that we are joined by
Director JoyAnn Ruscha. And I do not see anybody else. Is that correct? Second set of eyes.
JACK KROLL: That's correct. And I also just heard from Director Guissinger. They will be joining shortly.
So we will look for their arrival and anyone else.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, great. Thank you. Just keep me informed. I would like to open public comment
to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting
agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done
so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee

will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding
your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands
raised? I see none.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. I am aware that we received one communication for this meeting from Greater
Denver Transit that was submitted to the Directors regarding request for transit-oriented development as
a supplemental matter. Were there any other emails received?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there were no additional communications related to public
comment for this meeting.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Seeing no one in queue, I will close the public comment at this time.
Normally, we would have information from external entities. We do not have any tonight. So we are going
to proceed to recommended actions.
Before we launch into this evening's scheduled recommended actions and discussions, I want to point out
to all those assembled a new element of our committee agenda. Many of you have likely seen that the
published agenda included time guidelines for our recommended actions and discussions. These time
guidelines are both for presentations, if any, from staff, as well as corresponding question-and-answer
discussion from the committee.
This change supports following recent additions we made to our operating guidelines regarding meeting
efficiency, that is, to allow the meeting Chair to make specific time allotments to agenda items and ensure
the meeting is being conducted according to those time allotments. As such, I'm going to do my best to
hold us to these time allotments, and I ask the committee members and the Board Office staff to please
help keep us on track as well.
While these are not rigid timeline allotments, they have been coordinated with staff and committee
leadership and should closely mirror the time we need to fully engage on a given topic. We will continue
to refine these in the months ahead. So know that I remain committed to Directors getting all their
questions answered and their concerns addressed.
Additionally, our work plan has been updated following coordination with Agency leadership, the Board
Office, Chair Bouquet, the leadership of Operation Safety and Security Committee. Because the bylaws
define the role of the Finance and Planning Committee as being responsible for agency financial matters,
including, but not limited to, asset management and capital projects. Given the clear definition in our
bylaws, we have pulled into our work plan items for June and July that were originally slated for the
Operation Safety and Security Committee.
Notably, these items pertain to asset management and capital projects. I would like to thank General
Manager CEO Johnson, Deputy CEO Peña, CFO Mackey, as well as Directors Ruscha and Harwick for
recognizing the need to make these changes to better align with the Board's structure. I also want to
thank the committee's membership for taking on additional work in the months ahead.
With that, we have three recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first action is for the
authorizations for General Manager and CEO regarding the Central Park development, for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to negotiate and execute one or

more option agreements, ground leases, and other documents related to the development of the real
property, located at 3801 North Ulster Street, Denver, Colorado-- from now on, we'll call that the Property- with Ulysses Development Group. Do we have a motion.
KAREN BENKER: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And is there a second.
MATT LARSEN: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. I have the movement as Director Benker and the second as
Director Larsen. I would like to turn over the meeting at this point to Deputy CEO Angel Peña, Deputy
Chief Executive Officer, and Chessy Brady, Manager of Transit Oriented Development, to present the
item to this committee. Mr. Peña.
ANGEL PENA: Yeah, thank you, Chair Guzman. So, yeah, at this time, I just would like to invite Chessy
Brady, Manager of Transit Oriented Development, to present this item on behalf of the team.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you very much. I'm happy to be back again speaking to you this evening about
Central Park Development. So one month ago, or really just a few weeks ago, this Board approved an
amendment to the Equitable TOD Policy. And right away we're going to actualize that policy at this
station, or I'm proposing that we do so.
So to ground us in the project at hand, on Ulster Street, as mentioned, is the proposed site, the
westernmost parcel of Central Park Station Park-n-Ride. It's about a 6-acre site. And it appraised about a
year and a half ago for about $20 million.
Notably on this site, the parking utilization has been low for some time. Even prior to COVID, it was at
around 50%, and in 2024 only 17%. So about 260 cars parking, customers parking on a daily basis in
these 1,500 parking spaces.
The site is zoned for high density mixed use, up to 16 stories. It has a lot of potential. There's a lot of
development going on all around the site, it being just west of Stapleton, Central Park.
So Ulysses Development group has proposed for this site a really ambitious program of over 500 mixed
income rentals, about half-- more than half of which would need to be below 60% of area median income.
They propose to ground lease the parcel, remove the transit spaces, the parking spaces, that are not
being used, and meet RTD operations and maintenance requirements, and also improve general access
to the station.
They have been working on this project actually-- or we've been speaking since 2021. And they formally
began the process in 2023. And that process is the Unsolicited Proposal Procedure for joint development
of real property, which we can just call the UPP. They submitted that initial request in February 2023. We
reviewed it for technical feasibility at the staff level and then went out for alternate proposals through an
RFQ in November 2023.
The Board approved the proposal and authorized staff to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement
just exactly a year ago. And we did execute that agreement in 2024. And that agreement-- so the
agreement that we're operating under at the moment is that exclusive negotiation agreement. And what

we're seeking to do now is request your authorization on an option that will allow options, additional
options, and then multiple ground leases on the site.
So the ENA that we're currently operating under was executed in September. It has a 2-year term. It
requires RTD to negotiate with the Ulysses Development Group, or UDG, to the exclusion of other
developers. UDG has paid RTD, or deposited, $100,000 in a budget line, from which RTD can use funds
to pay for engineering review, outside design review, any costs that might be incurred by the agency in
the course of getting this project done.
We have the ability or the right to approve-- review and approve designs. And also under the ENA, the
development must advance the Equitable TOD Policy. And of course, the last two months, we've talked
about the equitable TOD policy a number of times we have amended it.
And what we haven't talked about as much is the bigger picture TOD policy, which pre-exists, preexisted.
So in 2018, this Board approved the evaluation guidelines for all TOD, whether it's market or affordable.
And the principles that any development oriented towards transit on RTD property must adhere to or what
you see on the left. And the factors on which we will evaluate it are on the right.
So Central Park as at least 500-unit development of underutilized land will increase revenues. It will be
budget positive. It will increase ridership. It is a ground lease rather than a sale, which is what the policy
calls for. It abides by parking rules, maintains safety and security. And it has Denver's support. It also
meets all of the factors and scores positively, so to speak, on those factors.
I will pause here for a moment to talk about the ground lease versus sale, since this has been a question
that's come up a few times over the past two months. The Board over many years made a very clear
determination to preference ground lease over sale, almost to the point of not permitting sales unless it's
absolutely infeasible for a project to go forward.
And the reasons for that are various. One is that they're not making any more land. And the land that RTD
has often is used for transit purposes or is expected to be able to be used for transit purposes in the
future. And so maintaining control of that land, but also benefiting from a ground lease on top of it has
been seen as a win-win for the agency.
Additionally, TOD is generally happening at transit stations. And maintaining the integrity and safety of
operations adjacent to development on a ground lease is more conducive to operating the system than if
we were to sell it and release all rights over that property. Also, the FTA contributed to many of the
acquisitions for the land that RTD owns. And in order to maintain compliance with FTA policy, we need to
retain, quote unquote, "satisfactory continuing control." And the best way to maintain or the easiest way to
maintain satisfactory continuing control is to have a ground lease.
And again, that way we're able to get value for the community, while-- and I'm wondering if you're seeing
the right slide because my screen is showing the TOD evaluation guidelines. May I ask if that's what's
showing on your screen.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's-- now you're on TOD evaluation. Yes.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So Ms. Brady, was there a slide before this? There was another comparative slide
that we didn't get to see. I was having a hard time tracking that too.
CHESSY BRADY: I'm so--

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Just look at it for just a second.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah, I'm sorry, I thought I was driving. And here, I see that I am not.
OK, so this is the exclusive negotiation agreement, the terms of that. And this is what we're currently
operating under. And you have this in your packet. OK, next slide, please.
So these are the principles that we're adhering to, the project being budget positive, increasing ridership,
et cetera. These are the factors that the projects are being evaluated on. I can come back to any of this if
there's more questions. I don't want to spend extra time. Next slide, please.
OK. Thank you. So you're all familiar with the Equitable TOD Policy. We have spent a lot of time on it in
the last two months. It does allow negotiated land price up to a 75% reduction at this point. And that will
apply to Central Park. Next slide, please.
So as applied to Central Park Station, the Equitable TOD Policy would have likely a 30% to 50%
reduction. And so on, a 6-acre site, it's about $20 million in value. When we're looking at a 30% reduction,
we're talking about a $14.5 million-- would be a sale value. In this case, we're talking about a ground
lease about $840,000 a year. A 50% reduction would mean $10 million, or about $600,000 a year.
That's based on pretty back of the napkin math there. But the point being that a 30% reduction is very
much achievable for this project. And across the entire project, it's possible it could reach 50%. We'll get
more into it in the next slides. Next slide, please.
So the next step is to execute an option agreement. This would be done in order to allow a phased
development. While it would be simpler to execute one ground lease and require at least 500 units on that
ground lease, it is not possible to finance a 500-unit affordable-- income restricted development in one go.
Those developments are typically 150 to 250 units. And so in order to maximize the number of units and
affordability levels on the site, a phasing is beneficial to the project and to RTD.
Under this process, RTD will grant UDG an option to enter into multiple ground leases. And then each
ground lease will correspond to a project phase. Just for illustrative purposes, we have a possible kind of
concept and potential phasing, whether it's two, three, or four phases is not determined at this point. But I
would imagine it's one of those three. And then as each project is able to be financed, we'll execute a
ground lease. Next slide, please.
In order to actually execute one of those ground leases, Ulysses and RTD have to agree on the location,
so where on the site, which part of the site is actually applying for this, the size of it, both in square
footage and in height, the term, probably 99 years, and the affordability. Though again, the project, the
site as a whole has to hit that minimum of 250 units at or below 60% AMI.
And then Ulysses has to get their construction and financing approvals. We have to agree on the
appraisal and then agree on other ground lease terms and conditions. And those terms might include, for
example, being able to take back a project if 45 years from now, the developer is not maintaining the
housing to standards that are approved by RTD. Next slide, please.
So again, illustrative image here of a possible phase I on Central Park Station, about 150 rental
apartments. 100% of this phase I would be income restricted, so no market rate, between 30% and 70%
AMI. Ulysses will be looking to the Colorado Housing and Finance Authority, CHFA, for financing, hosts

with the city of Denver, Department of Housing Colorado, DOLA, They will be looking under all of the
couch cushions to find the coins to get every phase of this project done. Next slide, please.
And so again, how would that eTOD Policy impact this phase I of this? Just as, again, back of the napkin
math here, if it's a $20 million parcel and it's divided in four, the first phase might be $5 million at a 30%
reduction, which is what we'd anticipate for the first phase. That would be $3.5 million. But there would
definitely be opportunities for a deeper discount if they start meeting the values that the Board set forth in
the policy.
If they're able to offer deeper affordability, if they push the parking ratio, if they provide that small retail
footprint or add additional accessible units, there's potential to increase that reduction. I think to just to set
minds at ease or to square us with the-JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry to-- I'm sorry, Ms. Brady. Mr.Chair, I apologize for interrupting a member of
the body. Is it OK if we ask folks to slow down just a little bit?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, a little bit. That way the transcriptionist can keep up. Would be helpful. Thank
you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you so much.
CHESSY BRADY: Sure. I am sorry for talking too fast. I think that the point here is that there are
opportunities for deeper discounts if the developer meets those other requirements in the policy. But this
is not the kind of project, this is not the kind-- it's certainly not the kind of phase that's going to get up to
that 75%, in my mind, because it's very much not maximizing density, for example.
Now, that's not for fault of the developers. I think they would very much like to build 16 stories. I would like
them to build it. But the financing is not available to do that. And so especially by breaking it into phases,
we can get as much housing as possible. But it's not going to hit that kind of mark. And it's not going to be
a very deeply affordable project, which will also keep the reductions within, I would say, that 30% to 50%
range. Next slide, please.
So our next steps, pending Board approval would be for Ulysses to apply for tax credits on August 1.
Those tax credits are done in annual cycles, more or less. And that's part of the reason that we're here
tonight, is that in order to apply for tax credits, developers need to have site control. And an option
agreement is one manner of proving that site control to CHFA in order for the developer to be eligible for
tax credits. So that's part of the goal this month is to get the project ready to actually make those
applications.
If awarded, Ulysses would then go through Denver's development review process, secure their additional
financing, and then, probably 2026, start meeting all those ground lease requirements I mentioned earlier
and that are part of this authorization. We execute that first phase. And off they go. And while that first
phase is in process, we can start planning for the next phases.
So that's it. I'm sorry for the technical difficulties and am very happy to take questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Ms. Brady. I would invite Directors to raise your hand if you have
questions or comments. I do see Director Larsen's hand is raised. Go ahead.

MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I just wanted to ask, what kind of, I guess, preparation do we have for if the
developer-- something goes wrong? Like they don't get those tax credits or they're not able to move
forward with the project. What will we do then? Or what are we prepared to do then? Thanks.
CHESSY BRADY: Sure. May I respond?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. If the developer is not able to secure the financing, then we will not
execute a ground lease and will be in the same situation we are now and have potential to go out again
and find another developer. But we are hoping to work with this development team. We do have
confidence in them and are hoping to be flexible and be able to get to the finish line if we see that the
finish line is there. If it starts to disappear, then we drop out and work with another team.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I do want to note for the record, we were joined by Director Chris
Gutschenritter at 5:40 PM and Director Guissinger at 5:42 PM. Thank you for joining us. I know it was
hard to switch from one meeting to another, even for myself. So you are here, and I'm happy to see your
faces. The next in line was Vice Chair Benker, excuse me. Please go ahead.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you very much. So, Chessy, from the slides that you have, it said that in
2019, we had approximately 750 cars were parking there. Correct, right? I'm understanding this correctly.
CHESSY BRADY: Yes.
KAREN BENKER: OK. And once this entire development is finished, there will only be 870 cars left or
spaces that would be left? So it seems like it's pretty close. So, one, I'm a little bit concerned about losing
all those parking spaces, because I do think in the next couple of years, we're going to have more riders,
and it's going to be higher use. Will there still be room there to build a parking garage if we need to? Will
there be a plot of land where we can do that?
Because park-n-rides have been very useful in the past. I know currently they're not well used. But I think
once we get our ridership numbers up, you're going to see park-n-rides numbers also going up. So what
are your thoughts?
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. So you're correct. In 2019, pre-COVID, about 50% of the spaces were
used, about half. Now, about 260 customers are parking there on a daily basis. And 650 spaces are
proposed to be removed. So there would still-- if the parking returns to pre-COVID levels, then there
would still be enough spaces for those customers.
And, yes, we are proposing to lease only the westernmost site of Central Park Station Park-n-Ride, which
leaves three additional sites on which you could build a parking structure, two of them more reasonably
than the other one. But certainly there's land potential for that future possibility.
KAREN BENKER: I just want to make sure that our transit customers are always going to be served. And
I know we've had this discussion, well, just recently-- affordable housing versus transit. And I know it's a
balance. But I'm also hoping that we're going to be filling up those parking lots. So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Vice Chair Benker. Director O'Keefe, you are a member of the
committee. I'm calling on you next.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to note that the comment from Greater Denver
Transit that you referenced in the early part of the session talks about a specific bus stop. And they're
asking for an improvement to be considered there, as well as the things that we're doing for the A line
connection.
And so I just ask that we consider that. It seemed like a reasonable request. And I know when we're
thinking TOD, usually it's trains come first to mind. But in this case, it's pretty heavy bus use in that part of
town too. Not my district, so I'm sorry for intruding on what I think is Director Ruscha's, but it seemed like
a reasonable request from them. So thank you for just taking a look at it and give it consideration.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I'm sorry, Director Nicholson, I did not realize you joined us as well. So I
want to make sure that I note that you are here for the record. Madam CEO, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Thank you,
Vice Chair O'Keefe, for your comments. And I just wanted to say in reference to looking at transit
amenities and things of the like, while that could be incorporated in with this transit-oriented development,
I wanted to ensure that we'll manage expectations, recognizing that this part is of service delivery. And of
course, there will be cross-pollination amongst the business units.
So I wanted to ensure that onus of that didn't fall with Ms. Brady. But we would look at that holistically. So
I just wanted to state that for the record. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just keeping time, y'all. We have about 10 minutes left in this
discussion, so let's land our planes. Director Nicholson, your hand was up first, and I will give Director
Ruscha the final word as this is her district. So let's hop to.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I just had a couple questions for staff. First question, this is right by
the-- because this is Central Park station, yes?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So this is so Central Park. Obviously, there's-- what was I going to ask? Will
this location have-- will the building be required to have EcoPasses for all residents in the location? Is that
going to be a part of-- a requirement of the projects?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Ms. Brady.
CHESSY BRADY: So the way we've handled nEcoPasses in the past-- so Neighborhood EcoPasses for
residential buildings-- would be to strongly encourage it. The nEcoPass program could change over 99
years of a ground lease. And so it wouldn't make sense for us to require it for that kind of term.
But generally speaking, developers are very much in favor of incorporating that in the first few years. And
we would be happy to require them to do so for the first few years. I think it's also reasonable to do that
and then see how it's working for that particular residential population against cost and make decisions
from there.
But it's also on-- I mean, we're in Denver. It's part of Denver's TDM requirements, their Transportation
Demand Management. So it will be one of many TDM strategies that we would strongly encourage, if
almost require, or potentially require, on the project.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Second question, the parking that is around the parcel, is that the resident
parking for that parcel? And is that also available for individuals who are driving to the station, or is it
going to be segmented off?
CHESSY BRADY: So I think what you're discussing is the remaining parking if we're using ground lease
on phase 1, then we would anticipate that some of that parking would be used for lay down during
construction, would be under a separate temporary lease or light construction license. And then if phase 2
is slow to come, then we would work out an agreement with the developer to whatever is the best-- to the
benefit of the agency to maintain that parking for transit users while it's still available. The parking-- the
building itself would be self-parked. We would not anticipate that residents would be parking in the
unleased portion of the 6-acre parcel.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. So there's other parking that's in the capacity for-CHESSY BRADY: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. Final question, with regard to the additional opportunities that they could have
to push from 30% up to 50% or 75%, obviously, recognizing that, like you said, they'd be scrounging
under every couch cushion, when it comes to opportunity-- where do you see of the available
opportunities, whether that is the reduced parking ratio or maybe accessible units, that you think that they
would be most interested in pursuing? Or where are you going to push to try to get opportunities? Of
what's available, what do you think is the most likely for them to be willing to pursue to increase that
discount?
CHESSY BRADY: That's a great question. I would love to elaborate at length, but noting that we're under
time constraints, I think the parking would be tough, because they're probably going to push it as far as
CHFA will allow. They are going to require a certain amount of parking to go along with the tax credit
project. And so they'll be limited in that respect.
I think-- I believe that they can provide more accessible units than required by law. So I think that's very
reasonable. And we can see how far they can push that. They intend to incorporate an early childhood
center. That's not a retail center, but maybe there's a small footprint retail next to that.
So I think that-- and there are a lot of little areas where they can push. And we'll encourage them to do so.
And they should be motivated, incentivized to do so, based on the potential for reduction in ground lease
rent.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Director Ruscha, your hand was up, but you have taken it down. Did you
want to opine here? All right. With no further comment at this point, I will ask if there are any no votes on
this recommended action from the committee. I do not see any. So that passes. It looks like we have all
seven votes for that one. So that will go on unanimous consent to the Board at the end of the month.
Thank you.
Jack-- sorry, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, no worries, Director Guzman. I just wanted to note that Director Catlin is absent. So
it's six.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Six votes.
JACK KROLL: But the item that still go to the consent agenda regardless.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry quick math. [LAUGHS] All right. Thank you very much.
The second action that we have on our agenda tonight is the Kalamath Rail reconstruction project
contract award. It is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
designee to enter into a contract with RailWorks Partners LP, after spoken to as RailWorks, for the fulldepth reconstruction of the Kalamath light rail intersection in downtown Denver in an amount not to
exceed $3,585,990. Ah, that's a mouthful. Do we have a motion?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movement as Director O'Keefe, the second as Guissinger. I would like to
ask again Deputy CEO Angel Peña and Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, to present this item to the committee. Mr. Peña.
ANGEL PENA: Thank you, Chair Guzman. At this time, to support our priorities of community value and
the strategic initiative "Back to Basics," which focuses on maintaining a state of repair to ensure system
reliability in the long term, I would like to invite Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Assistant General Manager for
Capital Programs, to present this item for the committee's consideration.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, CEO Peña. As introduced, I am Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting
Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs. The proposed recommended action to reconstruct trail at
Kalamath intersection in downtown Denver is included on page 20 of your agenda package.
This item requests Board approval of a contract not to exceed approximately $3.6 million for the
reconstruction of the light rail infrastructure at the Kalamath intersection in Denver. Much like the
intersections that were reconstructed as part of phase I of the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project that
took place in 2024, this rail segment is nearly 30 years old and is in need of full reconstruction to ensure
safe and reliable service, and to safeguard taxpayers investments in the transit system.
The project covers approximately 700 linear feet of double track and is related to the future downtown rail
reconstruction work presented to the Board in March of this year by the General Manager and CEO. The
intent is to start work in late fall of this year to stay on schedule with the overall downtown improvements.
This project supports the strategic priority of community value and the strategic initiative of back to basics,
which focuses on maintaining a state of good repair to ensure long-term system reliability.
The project is fully funded. And the construction timing is coordinated to avoid overlap with other major
downtown work. And with that, I am joined by Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations Dave
Jensen for any questions you might have for this item.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Ms. Vishwakarma, I am so sorry I mispronounced your name
and I will do better, I promise. But at this time, are there any questions from the committee members or
comments on this matter. Vice Chair Benker, your hand is up. Go ahead.

KAREN BENKER: Yes, I see construction is supposed to be starting September 2 and will go for
approximately three months. So could you tell me, is this going to be on and off construction? Or are you
going to be shutting down the rail line and just getting it done? Are they just going to be working at night.
How is the work-- when is the work going to be accomplished?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. I will start and then yield to members of the team. What I will share
going back to the discussion that ensued on Saturday when we gathered for our Board retreat, I was
talking about the importance of asset renewal. And I made reference to our impending service change
that will be taken up for your consideration as we look at that as a discussion item, actually, tomorrow and
then a recommended action, we're incorporating in mitigations relative to ensuring that this work can be
continuous.
So we're looking at realignment of our rail network in the Downtown core. I will be providing greater detail
at of that undertaking at the Board meeting, the latter part of this month. But simply put, this will be
continuous, just as we did phase I of the Downtown rail reconstruction. We want to ensure that we can
get in and get out and minimize impact to the riding public, recognizing if we would really decrease our
maintenance envelope if we had to power down and go back in and go back out, that wouldn't be
conducive. So we are optimizing efficiencies, just as it is common practice throughout rail networks going
forward.
So I will yield the floor to Mr. Jensen to talk more about specificity as it relates to that operation as we go
forward, but don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves because you will have to take that under
consideration as you consider service changes. So I just wanted to preface that. It's not a fait accompli,
but that's what we're looking to do. So, Mr. Jensen, the floor is yours, sir.
DAVE JENSEN: So, Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DAVE JENSEN: Not much more to add other than the complexity of the work that's going to be done
would require full-depth replacement, which means full removal of the tracks in existence now. So the
ability for us to pull all of the tracks out and put them right back in for service that next day is just not
feasible and workable. So it will be a full closure. And as Ms. Johnson indicated, we'll update the Board
on the specificity of the operation, I think, at a later time.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you. Is that possible then that it might be completed sooner, since it's going
to be continuous work? Are they also going to be working at night? Do you know?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. So there are always is the possibility contingent on
weather conditions and things of the like. We saw that with the first phase. But keeping in mind that we're
going to be working with our partners, with the City and County of Denver, and we have to get permits
and things of the like. It's really working in tandem with our jurisdictional partners going forward. And so
basically there are noise ordinances relative to how that work may be conducted.

So with that as the backdrop, I really believe Ms. Vishwakarma can answer that question. But considering
that the permit comes to the City and County of Denver and certain times of night there are restrictions.
And in some instances, we could be granted a waiver contingent upon the decibel levels. But Ms.
Vishwakarma, can you expound?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. You covered it. So there are a multitude of factors
to consider as you explained-- noise ordinances, the work crew that the contractor has, and the work to
be done. We might also run into the possibility of adverse weather. So these are all factors we will be
juggling as to make the projected schedule.
KAREN BENKER: Right. But there still then a possibility-- it hasn't been decided completely whether or
not it would be a 24-hour operation. So if you could work longer hours, then I assume the project could be
completed quicker?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Theoretically, yes.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. I want to note for the record, we have been joined by Director
Peggy Catlin. Ms. Johnson and Mr. Peña, both of your hands are up. OK, sorry. Go on, Mr. Peña. Go
ahead.
ANGEL PENA: Yes, Director Benker, I also want to assure you and to everybody here at the Board, that
as we do the work, we're going to ensure that we're communicating the progress of the work. So you
know where we are, how the work is progressing. And that will help us to give us a good touch point of
what's happening, how we're progressing, and how we're working with the city, how that's happening.
We're taking into account many things, such as events. So all of that are factors that we got to take in. But
you have our commitment. And I defer to Ms. Johnson that we will be communicating you everybody, how
we're doing on the progress of this work, and when we're completing.
And if we see that we're have any challenges, we're also going to be transparent about it. And if we don't
and we get this work done earlier, we also will be keep you apprised. OK.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. That's wonderful. I appreciate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, just really quickly, Mr. Peña reminded me of something. We're
going to mimic what we did last year with the first phase because we had great success. We had a
dedicated web page. And we were sending updates to this body. And so we will be doing the same thing.
And I recognize that some Board members weren't here. But I just wanted to amplify Mr. Pena's
commitment, because we think that's quite important. And I was giving frequent updates on a monthly
basis once we started construction. I gave those during the course of my General Manager's report during
the course of the full-fledged Board meeting as well. So I just wanted to further explain what we meant by
keeping you all apprised. So thank you. I'll yield the floor, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Great question, Vice Chair Benker. I appreciate that one.
Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. And I don't think I missed it, but if I did, sorry. So is this a fixedcost bid from RailWorks. I'm just asking that because it says an amount not to succeed exceed 3.5

million. And I just-- things come up sometimes, and there's the potential for overages. And would they just
stop work or was it a fixed-cost bid?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Chair, may I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So the contract authority we are requesting includes a fixed-price bid by the
contractor based on detailed plans that were prepared and also an amount of contingency. So things do
come up in construction that require us to do change orders or adjustments. And they would be adjusted
within this maximum, not to exceed limit at this time.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. And then I'm just curious what the contingency percentage was,
if you recall.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: It's 20% within this resolution.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: OK.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: It's based on our risk profile of the project.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Did you have anything further, Director Gutschenritter? OK. I have some questions.
Anybody else before I go? OK.
I'm not sure-- I'm kind of looking at our CEO and our Deputy CEO on this one. But in terms of doing this
type of work, thank you for letting us know that you would be working with us and using the website. Part
of the rail reconstruction last year through areas of downtown also was our Communications Office
reaching out and engaging with community that would be directly affected by those closures and by that
work. Is that plan in place going forward for this as well? I realize where this track is at, there are some
businesses, the campus, the major streets and avenues that we're working along are quite different than
working in the downtown corridor, but still heavily affected by this type of work and construction.
And given the weather, that can be tricky in September and November. There's a lot to consider there. So
I'm satisfied that we will be fine with the City and County of Denver and working with them, just concerned
about that particular length of track and where it's located. Are we set to have a good preemptive
communication strike and then continual throughout this project so that we ensure that we are keeping
our neighbors informed and being good partners with the folks along that corridor? Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And quite naturally, with any capital
improvement project or capital move or capital project as a whole, one critical component is the public
participation and recognizing that you do have the Auraria campus. And I can name other entities, i.e., the
Convention Center. This would be done in from whole cloth in the sense of having a very in-depth
construction communications engagement plan. Mr. Summers is on camera and can speak to that with
greater specificity.
I will reiterate once again that I will be coming before this body at the end of the month, during the course
of the Board meeting, outlining what we are doing, and we'll have that encapsulated. But with Mr.

Summers being here and off camera, I will yield the floor to him to give a thumbnail sketch of what we
have in store.
But we could provide greater detail toward the end of the month that will really set the stage for our
service modifications to accommodate, as well as other work that we've been doing. Because we've
yielded such great success and were applauded by all of our stakeholders and our partners in this that we
are going to capitalize on the lessons that we learned and enhance those successes that we were able to
implement.
So with that, Mr. Summers, the floor is yours, sir.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So a couple of quick things, we will do a similar approach
to what we did during phase I. One thing to note is following phase I last fall, we did an after action review
of the communications and engagement.
We have about 350 tactics that are individual tactics already identified ahead of the launch of this project,
which will include outreach to businesses and stakeholders, similar to what we did last year. We'll also do
a paid media campaign and earned media campaign and an owned media campaign. We'll have the
website. We'll do social media. We have, like I mentioned, about 350 individual tactics underway ahead of
this.
And we've already started to do outreach to some of those constituent groups, community-based
organizations, really to make sure that they're well aware of the project coming. And then as we get
information buttoned up following these Board meetings, we'll go out with some more specificity-- maps,
detours, plans-- so that they can understand what will be happening in real time and then keep them
updated throughout the project.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. In addition to that-- so stay on with me for just a moment-- I would
like to know, one of the common complaints that we received the last round of these type of work were
from our regular customer rider constituents that are on board and were frustrated by immediate changes
in service that they weren't aware about or sudden changes in service that interrupted their regular travel
path. So do we have contingency plans to help people shift modes? Meaning move from a light rail train
to a bus, if necessary, during these construction phases to ensure that we can get them to their
destination.
Given the smaller length of this track and what we have just been through over the summer, I find it
necessary to request, if we do not have that ready to go, that we really put some thought and effort into
identifying how we're going to do that and work with all of our possible solutions to this before we begin
this. That way we can ensure continual service. Because I think we did a great job with what we could,
knowing that things changed so suddenly. But this is something that we're planning and we don't want to
inflict a self-injury.
So I know we are but one RTD, as our CEO is want to say. And so I want to make sure that I point that
out. I guess that would be including MyRide app, any kind of electronic information, and ensuring that we
have all available hands on deck to do that.
STUART SUMMERS: Mr. Chair, if I quickly may-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sure.

STUART SUMMERS: One thing that we will be doing that we didn't do as much last year, but we found
some success with the Auraria campus, we want to expand it beyond that is creating custom maps for
different activity centers and key event centers, so that individuals can understand the other methods and
modes of transportation to reach that center. So if, you know, light rail is not their best option, the bus can
still get you there, and helping them understand where that stop is located, the frequency of those routes,
and the times and departures. So those are some things we have in mind.
It also is important to note that last summer we had the Coping Panels Project and the speed restrictions
at the same time. So it was a constantly evolving challenge with service. And so this summer, or this fall,
we're not anticipating having those multiple different disruptive activities all at the same time, creating that
perfect storm.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do appreciate that. I have been bludgeoned quite a bit by the public for saying, if
you're going to choose the method that is going to take the longest, you need to be prepared and take a
book. And so I want to make sure that we're not having to say that again. I want to make sure that we can
say, we can just get you where you need to be and put that to bed finally. Thank you.
I do have a question for Ms. Mackey, CFO Mackey. The finances for all of this are squared away and
good both for the marketing paid media and for the project. It's already part of our budget, correct? We
don't have to worry about further allocation unless there is a major interruption to the construction,
correct?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, that is my understanding. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Wonderful All right. Any further questions or comments? Seeing none, I'm going to
ask, are there any no votes on this matter? I see no votes. That means seven votes. We have unanimity.
Thank you so much for helping us stay on time. We're a little bit early, which is great. That will go to the
Board as a unanimous consent item.
All right, third and final action for this evening, we have the Light Rail Operating Facilities and Security
Command Center replacement HVAC contract award. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with JCOR Inc. for the replacement of
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning, HVAC, equipment at the Elati and Mariposa light rail facilities
and the Security Command Center with a total not to exceed the amount of $3,510,598. Do we have a
motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'll second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movement as Director Catlin and the second as Director O'Keefe. I would
once again like to ask Deputy CEO Angel Peña to introduce this item.
ANGEL PENA: Thank you, Chair Guzman. To further advance our priorities of employee ownership and
maintaining the safe and reliable facilities, I would like to invite Jyotsna Vishwakarma once again to
present this action item, please.

JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, DCEO Peña. I see Mr. Nicholson has his hand raised for quite a
while. Is it OK if I proceed?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please proceed. I believe that he has his hand raised in anticipation of this
conversation being over. So he can lower it now while you present. And then we will call for Directors to
raise their hands after you are done. Go ahead, Ms. Vishwakarma.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you. So again I am Jyotsna Vishwakarma, acting Assistant General
Manager for Capital Programs. The proposed contract award is outlined in page 22 of your agenda
package. This recommended action seeks approval of a contract not to exceed approximately $3.5 million
to replace heating and cooling systems at the Elati and Mariposa light rail facilities and the Security
Command Center.
The current HVAC systems, which stands for heating, ventilation, and air conditioning, including boilers,
chillers, ventilation and cooling units, are past their useful life and need replacement to avoid operational
disruptions and maintain safe and comfortable working conditions. This project directly supports our
strategic priorities of employee ownership and community value, ensuring that RTD facilities meet modern
standards and remain reliable for both staff and service operations.
This project is fully funded in this year's capital budget. And the work will be phased to minimize impacts
on ongoing operations. As before, I'm joined by Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations Dave
Jensen for any questions you might have for this team. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. At this time, I would invite Directors with questions or
comments to go ahead and raise your hand. Director Nicholson, go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So I pulled up the scope of work in anticipation of this
project, because I wanted to get a sense of how we were going about upgrading our HVAC. And what I
noticed and you alluded to this, Ms. Vishwakarma, is that we're looking at removing and replacing a hot
water boiler and an air cooled chiller, rather than installing a heat pump.
And as I understand it, those hot water boilers and chillers, those are relying on fossil fuels, correct?
Those are gas powered, not electric powered boilers. And so I'm wondering, given the conversations that
we've had on the Board about moving toward more green facilities, we're talking about our fleet transition
plan to more green energy there, it strikes me that this project is not doing that. Is that a fair
characterization that we're still going to be relying pretty much as heavily on fossil fuels with the new
installation as we were previously?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Chair, may I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So, Director Nicholson, the package comprises work at three facilities. Elati,
which is a very large facility of 125,000 square feet, Mariposa, which where we are basically replacing the
AC units in the computer room, and Security Command Center, which is a standalone building. So in the
Security Command Center, which is a smaller building, we are going to heat pump technology with a little
bit of backup for natural gas.

During the design process, we did look at converting Elati and all the facilities to all electric. There were
technical reasons why we could not do so, but we did explore it. So part of it is the system capacity and
all the other things that would need to be upgraded.
But the new installations are compliant with the current energy and building and mechanical, electrical,
plumbing codes. So to answer your question, we looked-- made it work at one building, couldn't make it
work at the others within the constraints.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I would just like to point out also this potentially could be split into several parts.
But in order to avoid the appearance of doing things at this dollar amount without coming to the Board,
staff has opted to bring this before us to receive our blessing, to do the corrective work, for the staff and
the employees of the agency to be able to continue their work, and to safeguard our systems to ensure
that we can provide the best value to our customers.
So I do want to thank you for that, because there are, I'm sure, a multiple options of ways to do this. But
instead of doing that and then bringing three different options forward, you have brought them all to us at
wants to do this work in several places. And I admire that, and I respect it because it is something that we
need to be informed of as we do these capital projects. So thank you. Director Nicholson, is there any
more? I do have a committee member waiting to speak.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I can go after Director Catlin. So-MICHAEL GUZMAN: You have the floor now. Do you have anything else?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, I do. In the process of-- so these are some pretty extensive upgrades. You're
replacing-- removing and replacing two of the rooftop units at the Security Command Center. You're
putting in a bunch of very large, heavy equipment over at Elati. Are there additional structural upgrades
that-- if you're going to be digging around and doing all of this stuff, I'm sure you're replacing some
plumbing in order to do that.
Are there opportunities for additional structural work that go alongside some of these upgrades that we're
not-- you understand the question I'm asking? Like are we just doing the bare minimum of what's there or
are there things we can do to future proof this? Or you mentioned the ability, the fact that we can't for
technical reasons, move toward a greener option with the boilers and chillers, what are we not doing?
What are we leaving on the table in terms of being able to address at the same time as we're going about
making these upgrades?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Chair, may I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mhm.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So the units are heavy. They are on the roof. In Elati, yes, we need more
structural support. So the HVAC system consists of many components. So you have chillers. You have
heating elements. You have dampers. You have pumps, compressors and controls that control the entire
system. So at this time, we are taking care of the major issues that we are aware of.
What we are not replacing is some of the ductwork and components that we expect will last the life of the
building. This was a thoughtful decision. It is very disruptive to work in a new facility. So our focus actually
with this go around has been also with air quality in the building. So that is something that we are doing
with this iteration.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Will-- Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I think it's important to note, and I've shared this on several other occasions,
as you look at our rail network, we have one operating facility. Recognizing that we pull vehicles in and
out of Elati, we have to ensure that we still are working in an environment where we can deliver service.
So I wanted to state that for the record as well, because we're being very intentional as we leverage our
Transit Asset Management Plan and look at renewals.
And more to the point, where you mentioned our Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan, we are doing
assessments. And we're leveraging that going forward. So I wanted to shore that up as well in the course
of this discussion, because if we were to limit our ability to have people have access in and out of Elati
light rail operating facility, while we do have contingency plans as it relates to a continuity of operation
plan, where there could be car storage at Mariposa, where repairs are done, we are limited with one
operating facility. Mr. Jensen, could you add or subtract from what I said from the operating vantage
point, as we talk about revenue service delivery, which is our core functional mission?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead, Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes I can't overemphasize the importance of what Ms. Johnson just indicated. The
potential to shut us down completely does exist. So it's imperative that we stay ahead of it as much as
possible to be able to ensure that we can provide service.
One other component that I might add, or maybe two, is that even locations where we might not be
working on trains, the computer system and the SCADA system, which is our computer system that
monitors our train activity, if that overheats and shuts down, we are again shut down. So that's incredibly
vital.
And then just as it relates to our employees and the importance to them working in conditions where they
can be comfortable and work, as we all know, we have extreme temperatures here. And if you're working
in a shop building and it's extraordinarily hot or extraordinarily cold, that hinders our employees as well.
So I think there's a number of things that could be emphasized as it relates to this project that might be
helpful for you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: One last-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Last one.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep. You mentioned that these improvements are specifically to focus on or
dedicated to air quality improvements. But I don't see anything on here about installing air quality
monitoring within the facility as part of making these upgrades. Are there already high quality or indoor air
quality monitors at Elati, for example? Or can we get some of those in the facilities to go along with these
improvements?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Chair, may I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: So the air quality improvements are a part of improving ventilation in the
building. So it's an integrated package. I believe the building has sensors. If not, I mean, it should be part

of it. So having sensors is normally part of our building. And we'll have take a look at it. Right now, I'm told
there are no air quality sensors in the building. So sorry.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I'm going to move on to the committee members. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say, Ms. Vishwakarma, thank you for at least
looking at the possibility of a heat pump solution for all of the buildings. And I do understand the
challenges of-- and I'm sure Mr. O'Keefe does as well-- of trying to move toward those types of solutions
for larger commercial buildings.
I think the importance that we have here is the safety and comfort of our employees. And given that it's
only a single-- the Elati facility is a single facility, I just think it's imperative that we move toward that. I
would just say to Director Nicholson that let's not let perfect be the enemy of the good. This is an
important project. And we need to move forward with it.
And just on an added note, my twin brother is an HVAC engineer. And he installs systems like this all
over. He's been part of the American Society of Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning Engineers,
ASHRAE, whatever, and has taken a careful look at the conversion of some of these large commercial
buildings to meet the zero greenhouse gas emission standard. And he has been telling me of the
challenges associated with that in the industry. So I can definitely appreciate the challenges that you had,
but do appreciate that you have taken a serious look at it and are moving forward with the best solution
possible. Thank you.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Peña, your hand shot up.
ANGEL PENA: Yes, I do want to verify Is that, yes, I hear you, Director Nicholson. I think it's a challenge
that we face as an organization on how to do that balancing act of maintaining our levels of service,
keeping our employees in the best working conditions, but at the same token, do the opportunities for
those organizations when needed. And it's a balancing act.
I think one thing that we are committed, and one of the things since I've been here on Board is seeing the
team being very engaged when they're going through those assets to see when that applies to, when we
can't. So I just want to tell you that we are committed to be always every time that we're making this
informed decisions, we have taken into account what else we can upgrade for the future.
When it comes to light sometimes is can we? And how does that not jeopardize what we need to do to
maintain our service today? So it's a balancing act. But it's something that will continue to be looking at
every time that we're doing any capital improvement.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This isn't why I raise my hand. But I am really excited about
the prospect of pro bono work from Director Catlin's twin. I mean, this sounds great.
I just wanted to put a pitch in for being able to tour this facility. It comes up a lot. We have seven new
directors that I think would benefit from a tour, probably the directors that were here before this here too,

but is something that I'd like-- I'm a visual person. I'd like to see it and better understand what we're doing
and the workers' condition, workforce conditions, which is really important too. So that's just a pitch for
maybe a committee or full Board field trip. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. I wanted to take this opportunity because just engaged with the
Chair just earlier this afternoon on this. We are working as it relates to tours. Quite naturally, we want to
ensure that we are leveraging staff time and making sure that you all can see the operations of a
commuter rail facility, a light rail facility, a bus facility, keeping in mind that most of what goes into that
work happens in the early hours or the late hours. And we want to ensure that we have staff available so
you can see that.
So just want you to know that I'm speaking with my operations team tomorrow about this subject. And
we're looking at times in July, August, and September. So I just wanted to put that forward so everybody
had that information. Thank you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's really great. I grew up near Elati. And so I would love to go see it as well. I
will say I have toured the Platte Street Division a couple of times for different events with staff and with
help. But I would never, never assume to go to any of those places without a guide because they are
really dangerous. And I got lost trying to find the bathroom in one of them. And thank God there was
somebody there that was like, no, Director, you got to go the other way. You're going to fall into a pit.
So please, let's not go on our own without talking to staff first and making sure that we're safe. I am so
sorry, Director Nicholson. It is 6:45. And I need to move on. You've had your opportunity to speak. And
we need to make a vote. But thank you. Follow-up should be sent directly to Mr. Peña. Or you can send
me an email and I will make sure that we get it answered promptly.
Are there any no votes on this recommended action by the committee members? I see none. That passes
7 votes to the aye, zeros nos. Thank you very much.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Time for discussion items. We are going to move on to our discussion
items. There are two on tonight's agenda. The first item is for the 2025 Quarter 1 financial update. Super
excited to invite our Chief Financial Officer, Kelly Mackey to present on this item. Ms. Mackey, the floor is
yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Ms. Mackey, you're-MICHAEL GUZMAN: On mute.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Good evening. I'm glad to be here tonight. Each month, a
financial status report is included in the Board briefings.
This report displays a dashboard with sales and use taxes, ridership, and fare revenue results, as well as
the unaudited financial statements. And following the conclusion of this fiscal year ending in December,

an annual comprehensive financial report is produced, audited by the independent auditors and is
presented to the Audit Committee and the full Board as a recommended action.
But today, we're discussing the Q1 2025 financial update to provide an update to the Finance and
Planning Committee regarding RTD's financial results and position through the end of the first quarter,
March 31, 2025. We have not yet received April sales and use tax amounts. And the April financial results
will be available soon.
All right, so most of this discussion is not only to provide an update, but also in preparation for the coming
items, including the discussion next month on the 5-year financial forecast. We'll be coming back in
September to ask for approval of that 5-year financial forecast, and then go into budget discussions for
2026.
First, we will review actual Q1 2025 results versus budget and then versus prior year. The figures here
are in thousands of dollars. And this view shows the variances of actuals to budget and year over year in
gray.
So fares of 13 million were 931,000, or 6% unfavorable to budget, and grew 117,000 over Q1 of 2024.
Sales and use tax of 197 million was 6 million, or 3%, unfavorable to budget, and grew 1 million over prior
year. Keep in mind that the budget was approved by the Board in November for 2025.
Grants have been delayed primarily on the federal side and are currently expected to catch up later in the
year. The grants revenue is at 3 million versus the budget of 87 million. And we'll continue to monitor this.
We generally spread the budget for grant funding across several months. And then it depends on when
the application is approved and when we can start drawing money down with funds released. So we
expect to make up this difference later in the year.
Other revenue, which includes advertising revenue and investment income, is at 22 million versus a
budget of 11 million and is 6 million, or 40%, ahead of prior year. Operating expenses are to the good at
294 million, or 143 million, favorable to budget and above prior year by 12 million. There's favorability
versus budget nearly across the board and operating expense areas, including bus and rail operations,
planning, capital programs, police and administration.
Debt service of 32 million is 4 million favorable to budget and close to prior year. Capital expenditures of 4
million are 5 million favorable to budget and 13 million favorable to prior year. Overall, we're in a good
financial position coming out of Q1 with change in net position of 67 million favorable to budget, and we
will continue monitoring as the year progresses.
So moving into financial position, these are the results of money in and money out and ending balances
as of March 31, 2025 versus March 31 of 2024. The critical component is what's available to RTD
potentially to spend before subtracting all liabilities and other obligations. And it's down 148 million, or 6%,
from the prior year.
Cash investments and accounts receivable is our liquidity position and how much liquid funds are
available for RTD to spend. Cash and investments are down 20 million, or 2%, from prior year. And
accounts receivable is down 30 million, or 14%.

Fund balances are what's left over after we subtract out everything that's due as liabilities. The FasTracks
fund declined 29,000, or 10%, in restricted funds, contributing to the FasTracks fund balance decline. And
the Base System Fund balances are unrestricted, with 82 million, or 12%, decline from prior year.
To summarize what I've discussed so far regarding financial results, revenue is behind expectations due
to the timing of grants. We do have a positive expenditure variance offsetting the revenue shortfall. And
we do have a strong, though slightly declining, financial position.
Next, I'll go over some historical trends. These graphics are actually included in the monthly financial
statements that you have seen. The far left numbers start in 2018. And the red and the green lines start
below zero in 2018. At that time, we didn't have enough money to pay off all obligations if they were to
come due at that point in time. It doesn't necessarily mean we were bankrupt because some of these
obligations are way out into the future. But it's very important not to be in a position where the fund
balances are negative.
The top line, the blue line, is the trends in our cash and investments. But what you can see with the red
and the green lines is we've markedly improved as an agency our fund balances, while also improving our
cash and investment position. So when we talk about being in a strong financial position, this is indicative
of that, even though you can see a slight decline since 2023.
The flip side of the coin when you look at our balance sheet is what do we owe? If you go back in time to
2016, this graph starts to show a nice trend of 8 or 9 years here. This graphic shows the big obligations
that RTD has.
In the blue section is the total debt profile. Everything in the principal amount of debt owed to our
investors that was borrowed in 2016 is 3.9 billion. And then the other large obligation that was on our
balance sheet at the time of the pension at that time was pension liabilities of 320 million in the green box
at the top. So you can see that starting in 2021, we start to see significant decreases in those amounts.
And we're left with a current outstanding principal balance of 3.3 billion at the end of Q1 of 2025.
Part of that is actual debt service that's been paid. But a lot of it's also due to the debt refinancings that
has occurred in more recent years when we had the opportunity. We refinanced debt for interest, savings,
took out some of the principal balance at the same time, and reduced the risk to RTD.
The pension obligation is 154 million, down from 320 million. You may recall in 2022, with the s collective
bargaining agreement, the Amalgamated Transit Union and RTD worked together to try to address the
large pension obligation. And the pension plan was closed to new employees for represented employees
going forward in 2023. And there was also a large payment of $160 million, a lump sum put into that plan
and reduced the risk profile to RTD.
So moving into fund balances, we have this broken down by types of fund balances. The fund balances
are RTD's assets minus its liabilities. The fund balances are also known in the private sector as owner's
equity.
It's essentially the savings that are left over if RTD were to pay off all of its obligations. We have a column
for Base System, a column for FasTracks, and a gray column for total, followed by where these were in
the prior year and the year-over-year variances from March 31, 2024. We have restricted fund balances
that are restricted by contracts and agreements, such as debt agreements. That's money that has to be
set aside to service debt. For example, we have a restricted TABOR reserve that's required of all

governmental agencies in Colorado to maintain a 3% TABOR reserve. And those funds showed here as
133 million are essentially untouchable for covenants.
And then we show the funds that fall under the Board auspices, which are the remaining funds, after
removing restricted reserves. Through fiscal policy that the Board has approved and through discussion,
there are essentially four different fund balances. The words fund and reserves are really interchangeable
here.
So the operating reserves have been established as three months of operating expenses, excluding
depreciation, which is 301 million. Next is the capital replacement fund through the budgeting process.
While we all have this good cash position, we identified 261 million to set aside for capital replacement.
That has to do with our state of good repair, the Transit Asset Management Plan, and having that funding
available so we do not have to in the short term, at least, borrow money and pay additional interest.
We currently have 192 million in the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, known as FISA. And that is the
fund balance established by the Board several years ago to put money away for future FasTracks
projects. And finally, there's the unrestricted fund balance, which is a credit balance of 56 million, primarily
due to the delay in 2025 grants revenue. And this balance had 596 million set aside in Q1 of the prior
year, in part due to timing, but this was down to 58 million by the end of 2024.
So again, restricted are contractual or statutory requirements, such as TABOR. And all of the other items
are under the Board auspices. The Board has the authority to spend, and only the Board can appropriate
those funds.
And as you know, the FasTracks program was approved by voters in 2004. As part of that ballot measure
approved for RTD, there was a financial plan in which FasTracks money has to stay separate. The only
exception is that in the initial FasTracks plan, it was agreed that FasTracks would pay or reimburse or pay
the Base System for any additional bus feeder service or paratransit service that was contemplated by
adding new rail lines.
So it's essentially FasTracks service, but because it's provided by the Base system to service the
FasTracks elements, it was determined to be a FasTracks cost. So therefore, FasTracks must pay Base
for that. So in this initial FasTracks plan, the original assumption was that there would be a 1% growth in
revenue hours of that bus feeder service and the paratransit service that's being subsidized or paid for by
FasTracks, and a 1% growth in the revenue hours year over year, based mainly on population growth.
In 2012, there was a lot of discussion about RTD's ability to identify enough funding to complete the rest
of the FasTracks elements. And the result was that the Board at the time established the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account, FISA. That FISA account identified specific line items that were potential
revenue sources to put into a fund, the FISA fund, and keep building that until enough money was
available to build additional FasTracks items.
The primary source of that funding is approximately 22 million per year. And it's associated with that 1%
annual growth. As it was identified that instead of doing 1% revenue hour growth, we have FasTracks pay
the base year, year over year increases according to CPI inflation. And then we changed from a volume
calculation per Board direction down to a percentage increase based on inflation. So the difference
between those two is approximately 22 million per year, which stays in the FISA.

So this is what the FISA statement looks like in the monthly financial statements. You can see that the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account balance at the very bottom is 192 million. At the top, the limit
FasTracks funding increases for budget and paratransit to CPI is at 22 million for the 2025 budget. Many
of these items were identified at the time of creation of FISA, around 2012 and 2013. So some of these
items were one-time expenses, or one-time items, such as Union Pacific Railroad and achieving project
underruns. Probably one of the most notable items in the top section is the total sources of cash is that
any land or sale or leased revenue that comes into the agency, whether it's FasTracks or Base System,
goes into the FISA.
And it's been a few property sales essentially. You can see all the sources that have come in total, 250
million plus 22 million in the 2025 budget. And then right below sources is the actual funding uses that
have been approved by the Board through the years. 6 million was used for additional scope items for the
US 36 BRT. For the FasTracks Flatiron Flyer, North Metro project draws were 22 million. And Southeast
rail extension was 22 million as well.
In the 2025 budget, we also have listed 22 million four FISA debt service that RTD agreed to. 61 million
debt service and operations funding is spread over three years, 2025 through 2027, which has to do with
the Denver Transit Partner Project Eagle through P3. If you look all the way through 2040, it's estimated
that the balance in the FISA would be 527 million in the bottom right, barring any changes to this
approach.
So finishing up here, some of the challenges going forward are revenue diversification, something RTD
should continue pursuing and monitoring. Tax collections have slowed and are expected to have small
growth in the coming years. One of the biggest commitments that's not necessarily shown on our financial
statements is maintaining our assets in a state of good repair. So when we bring the draft 5-year financial
forecast, you will likely see much of those fund balances will be consumed by maintaining our assets in a
state of good repair.
And if you look at our financial statements, it looks like we have a lot of money. But essentially, it's spoken
for. We really need that to maintain what we have.
And lastly, RTD and our Human Resources department have done a fantastic job bringing people in. And
that staffing growth is going to be very important as to how we ensure we're staffing in the right areas in
coordination with our planning. So, Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation for the Q1 financial update.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much, Ms. Mackey. Director Larsen, your hand was up first, please.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah I just wanted to know in brief why we're so favorable in terms of expenses.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Ms. Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes. In general, we budget based on appropriations and what we see as to coming.
But sometimes the teams do not spend all the funds available to them. And so there ends up being a
favorability, especially in the beginning of the year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That will probably balance out over the rest of the year. I would imagine. We're in a
good spot now. Let's enjoy it. We'll see what happens. Anything else? All right. Vice Chair, Benker,
please.

KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you, Kelly, for your first financial report. It's good. Of course, it's all good
news.
I do have questions. If you go to your page 4 on your PowerPoint, you've got columns there that say
"budget." How do you come up with those numbers? Do you just take the annual figure and divide it? Or
is it actual real-life calculations based on what has happened? Because I'm sort of surprised to see the
budget, because again, I could see a percentage of budget spent.
And I think what's most valuable, at least to me, is comparing the actual for the first three months with the
prior year of the first three months. So that's what I'm focusing on. Because as you had mentioned, when
you were talking about grants, grants don't come in equally every single month. They fluctuate a lot.
Sometimes you get a whole lot of money and sometimes you get nothing. And so I'm just wondering
about that budget column. Do you know how that was calculated?
KELLY MACKEY: So I've just completed my first four weeks with RTD.
KAREN BENKER: Oh, I'm sorry.
KELLY MACKEY: And my understanding-- my understanding, though, and what's typically done, is teams
try to allocate budget funds according to the month and the quarter, with some exceptions. There are
some instances where RTD may have spread things through the year. In some instances where they may
have been spread based on how expenses were expected to flow through.
And so for RTD's typical practices, though, I believe that in Q1, sometimes what we experience is that
budgeted funds are not fully spent early in the year. It ends up coming later in the year.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, yes. And so, yeah, and we can certainly talk. But I also found very interesting was
on page 5, the amount of cash that we have invested, $2.4 billion, which is almost-- I was surprised to
see that large amount. I'm assuming the largest chunk is probably set aside because when we
appropriate capital funds, we don't spend them out right away, but we take the money and we set it aside
for that particular capital purchase?
KELLY MACKEY: We also have three months of operating expense that we have to ensure we have
coverage for, as well as debt service that's coming up.
KAREN BENKER: OK, because again, to go from-- because I knew we had about $1 billion in four
different kinds of reserves. And then to see the 2.4, you do a double take. But that's good. But again, I'm
assuming a lot of that is over the years you appropriate monies for capital projects and you just set the
money aside. But OK, hopefully, it's being well invested. And hopefully we're going to be seeing the
results of that.
And then really the only other thing that I've got, it's a simpler comment with regard to your fund balances.
I know you're just giving us a snapshot for quarter 1. But again, a lot of things can happen or not happen
in the first quarter. And so some of these numbers are interesting. But by year's end, they can be very
different.
OK. I'm sorry. And at some point I'd like to talk to you about the TABOR reserve, because there's a lot of
things that you can do with that. My background is in state budgeting. And the state came up with some
innovative ways to account for the TABOR reserve.

But thank you. I do appreciate the work that you've done. And I know it's a very, very complicated position
that you're in right now. And there's so much to learn. And if there's anything that we can do to help you.
And I thank you very much for this report. I just had some general questions. And I'm sure over the year, I
will be bugging you on a routine basis, trying to dig into some of the numbers. But thank you. Thank you
for your work.
KELLY MACKEY: Well, thank you. I appreciate your comments. And I look forward to connecting much in
the future for sure.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director O'Keefe, you are next.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. That was a really good briefing. I really appreciate it. Very clear. One
question, do we pledge any of our federal grant money that is repetitious or more regular against any of
our debt obligations? Is it pledged at all?
KELLY MACKEY: Debra, would you like to speak to that? You're shaking your head.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Hi. Debra Johnson. No, we typically do not do that as it relates to the monies
that are earmarked from 5307. They're designated for specific purposes. And when we look at
preventative maintenance and the other capital aspects, that's what we're leveraging those monies for as
we do our drawdowns.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. I feel better.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Ms Mackey, thank you for a very, very clear and succinct
presentation. I really appreciate it. Well done after four weeks, it's not an easy job. And I just wanted to
compliment you on your presentation.
And as you know, the Board created the FISA, and the Board has the ability to modify the FISA. So as we
look forward with some of our challenges, I know that some of us would appreciate a more in-depth
discussion on uses for that and what we can do with that, but particularly in light of some of the
expectations from external entities. So I just wanted to make a comment that we're probably not done
with that, but it was a very good and clear presentation tonight. So thank you very much.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Real quick, before I go to Director Ruscha, I agree with that very statement, Director
Catlin. I would like to have further conversation regarding the FISA. I think it's really important. Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. That was one of my three comments. And you and Director Catlin
beat me to it.
So in addition, I think that it might be prudent for the whole Board to get some of the more recent memos
that returning members have relative to the FISA history, how it's funded and how it's been funded since
its creation. It goes into a bit more specificity, excuse me. I know ones were sent in 2021 and 2023. And
last year during our budget season, for those who were interested, more granular information was also
provided upon request. So I don't want to voluntold anybody, but perhaps that's something that you, Mr.

Chair, could work on with Mr. Kroll, just to get us up to speed before we revisit this topic holistically. So
that would be a comment.
And on the topic of the FISA, my other comment was just like, as you can see in slide, I'm sorry, it's not
packet page, but the presentation slides like 11 and 13, that FasTracks was supposed to contribute to the
Base tax. And that was, as Ms. Mackey noted, to account for increased bus demand and pay for feeder
service. But the Board voted to change that calculation.
And that policy initiative by the Board has resulted in a considerable amount of money being diverted into
the FISA that actually would have gone to the Base. And that also would have included money set aside
for paratransit, which has been a topic of late. So I just wanted to put that out there just to say that-- I just
want to put that out there. And I think it's a conversation that is worth revisiting.
And so with that, Mr. Chair, my question would be to you, if you could just walk us through briefly, either
confirm or explain how the process is going to work with our fiscal policy this year in F&P and when Board
members can expect to have that conversation come up and contribute to that, because that is also
related to our fiscal policy that we vote on every year in the fall?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: According to our work plan, which we will be discussing later in the meeting, the
fiscal policy for 2026, I assume that's what you're talking about-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The first discussion opportunity will be in September. We will have discussion and
opportunity to opine and request changes to the fiscal policy from September to October. In October, we
would potentially be taking action on that and then recommending something to the Board. So we will
have our first opportunity to have discussion on that in September according to the work plan.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So just recognizing that we often have the discussion item and the
vote and it's like a one-two punch within 30 days, would it be OK for those of-- if folks are thinking ahead,
would it be OK for us to start sharing our thoughts about potential changes or considerations to fiscal
policy early? And if so, who would we direct that to? How would you prefer that to go, for efficiency's
sake?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So if you're referring to updates to the 2025 to 2026, I would say go ahead and
email those to me. And then I can meet with CFO Mackey and CEO Johnson and have a discussion
regarding the same. There's no deadline on that. But if you do send it to me, please send it with the
regard line specifically to the fiscal policy for 2026 so that I can quickly find those in email and pull those
to the side. It probably would be best to CC our CFO and our CEO. Is that OK, Debra? Sorry, just getting
the head nod. That way-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That way the three of us are all on the same page in case I miss one. But we can
circle back and have a conversation. That is not to the exclusion of the Vice Chair, either. Vice Chair
Benker we will do it. But open meetings and not trying to violate CORA, I'll take the direct on that and then

share with you after I have a compilation, if that's OK. I've done the same thing on Performance and that
seems to work well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes. I really would be appreciative if you could send me some of that information then
too, because putting together the FY26 budget, we're going to be starting-- and I'm sure our staff has
already started, quite frankly, putting it together. And it's going to be lots of work. But I think it's also going
to be very interesting. And hopefully, we're going to have some good things showing up in 2026.
But the reason I raised my hand here is, one, Ms. Mackey, first of all, I have to apologize. I should not
have been jumping in with some of these technical questions right away. But I do want to compliment you
on your fiscal report and thank you, because for only having been here a month, you've done a very good
job. And you're picking up the intricacies of RTD finance very, very fast. And so thank you. I just wanted
to make sure I thanked you for your hard work. Take care.
KELLY MACKEY: You're too kind, Director Benker. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, well, Directors, if there are further questions or conversation on this matter, I
would really highly suggest we send those to the Board Office. They will help us coalesce and get any
other concerns to our CFO and CEO on this matter. But I do want to thank you for the high level and very
succinct report. It's much appreciated. And it follows Board policy, which I really do appreciate.
It is 7:16. And for the sake of our transcriptionist and everybody assembled, since we've had some back
to back meetings, I am going to adjourn for 10 minutes, this meeting-- I'm sorry, recess this meeting for
10 minutes. Let me be clear with my language. We will stop the recording, but we are still live streaming,
so please be mindful, mute yourselves. And you can feel free to turn your cameras off. Let's return at
7:27. Thank you.
Recording. Thank you so much. We are reconvening the Finance and Planning meeting at 7:27 PM. All
right.
Our second item for discussion this evening on the Finance and Planning Committee is the 2026 budget
development update. Once again, I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, our Chief Financial Officer, to present
on this item. Ms. Mackey, the floor is yours.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Chair Guzman. All right. Also with us this evening is Todd Nickel, our
Senior Manager of Budget, here to help answer questions at the end. And I'll give an overview of the
budget development update as we are full into the process for the year.
We will go over the Five-Year Financial Forecast, the 2026 budget, as well as typically, there's a longrange plan that's done toward the end of the year. These include, and this discussion, will include
objectives, inputs, and framework with assumptions for how we'll go about the process for the rest of the
year, aiming toward November approval of the 2026 budget. And this process will have goals of
transparency, alignment, and strategic inputs throughout the organization.
This is a view of what the budget timeline looks like with key milestones for the 2026 budget. Earlier in
May, we finished prioritizing capital expenditure requests with the organization. Selection of CapEx and

operating expense to align to the target Five-Year Financial forecast is underway right now. And the
leadership team will soon align on the Five-Year Financial Forecast and major expenditures associated
with that.
And then in July, we will present a draft of the Five-Year Financial Forecast to the Finance and Planning
Committee for approval in the month of September. And then in October, we will present a draft of the
2026 budget and post for public inspection by October 15. And then in November, we will seek approval
of the 2026 budget and review, the long-range financial plan, is currently the plan. And then the 2026
budget will go into effective January 1.
The key objectives for budget development are aligning resources with strategic priorities, ensuring
financial sustainability, addressing known risks and investment needs across the organization through
alignment and communication, as well as complying with fiscal policies set by the Board and reserve
serve targets. We obviously have operating reserve of three months. And we have 1.2 net revenue
coverage that we will aim to hit with the Five-Year Financial forecast.
Some of the other inputs driving the budgeting process are for the FYFF, the revenue projections, the
Transit Asset Management Plan and capital projections, labor cost trends and operating expense
baselines. We have strategic priorities that we'll make sure that the line items are aligned to and articulate
clearly what each of those strategic priorities are. And then we also factor in things like inflation. We have
3% inflation assumption currently, 3% tariff on materials and supply costs currently in the budget. And
then department inputs from earlier this year are included in the FYFF review. We obviously also look at
legislative impacts as and other variables for the Department input process.
The overall budget framework and assumptions focus on revenue growth and constraints. We have low
single digit fare revenue growth, negative sales and use tax projected for 2025, with small increases in
future years. We look at grants, formula and discretionary, salary and benefit inflation. We're showing
currently 5% increase on wages, 3% increase on salaries, 5% increase on fringe. And then we have fuel,
materials, and utilities estimates, as well as debt servicing and capital funding needs. We have that 1.2
coverage for debt service. And part of the plan, for example, calls for financing bus purchases.
And then we have a strategic committee discussion point section, where I wanted to ask you if there's any
directional priorities or trade-offs that the committee would considered. And we can maybe discuss this at
the end. We'd love to hear from you-- areas where you would like to see financial flexibility in the FiveYear Financial Forecast and the 2026 budget, as well as any risks or external signals that you, the Board,
are monitoring that should be integrated by my team and the leadership of RTD into the Five-Year
Financial Forecast and the budget.
So then overall next steps will be that we will share a draft of the Five-Year Financial Forecast in July,
along with some of the key assumptions and methodology, and walk through that with you. We may
actually do two different scenarios. We will finalize the Five-Year Financial Forecast with approval in
September.
And then the staff at that time will be completing the budget development efforts across departments. We
will be meeting to review line items and building out appropriate detail for the budget book that will be
published going into 2026. We'll hold a series of internal budget review meetings to ensure that we are
aligned and we have the proper approvals among the teams.

We will return to the committee with a draft of the 2026 budget in the month of October. And then we will
come to the Board in November of this year for approval of the 2026 budget. And, Chair Guzman, that is
the conclusion of my talking points for this presentation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. All right. Homework assignment, y'all. So we're going to jump
into it. But the questions, again, are there any directional priorities or trade-offs that this committee would
like considered? Are there areas where financial flexibility is desired? Are there any risks or external
signals that the Board is monitoring that should be integrated?
Now, we are one committee of the 15. And so help in communicating that question out would be a great
assistance to our CFO and the team. But also, I will ensure that those questions get sent out with the help
of the Board Office for those that are not attending tonight's meeting. Director Larsen, your hand was up
first. Please proceed.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, just I've spoken to others about it. But I think definitely the consideration of tradeoffs that I'm most interested in seeing is the choices that we have within the budget that we think we have
to increase ridership versus to maintain coverage. That's the trade-off I'm most interested in
understanding better. So hopefully we can-- the budget process will allow us to investigate that. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Can I ask you for clarification on that just so everybody understands. When you say
maintain coverage, what does that mean?
MATT LARSEN: Well, I'd like to know if we could-- I mean, we have a limited budget. Our goal, I don't
know. Well, our goal could be-- the legislature's goal has, as they've defined to us in their most recent bill,
is for us to increase ridership. And one way to do that would be to concentrate resources into the areas
that have the highest propensity for ridership at the cost of areas or coverage or service lines that have
relatively low ridership or are inefficient, have low ridership per dollar. And I personally would like to
understand better what our options are there to concentrate service where it would give us the most bang
for the buck and do the most for us to increase ridership.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. I would like to echo what Director Larsen has just said. I'm not quite sure
what information you received, Ms. Mackey, about our retreat that we had this past weekend. But we had
a very good discussion about what our top priorities are for next year. In fact, that was the main reason
why we had the retreat was to have a good Board discussion as to what some of the most important
things that we need to be doing. And ridership kept coming up. And it was, at least in my committee and
yours, Director-- Chair Guzman, ridership was definitely-- sorry for the barking dog-- ridership was
definitely the number one topic.
So what we did not discuss, though, is how much of an increase for next year. OK, Morgan. How much of
an increase should we be budgeting for next year and in the next couple of years? In addition, one of the
questions that I had when we had our pre-meeting was, I would really appreciate, I would like to see what
kind of-- I'm sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: We'll come back if we're good. I believe I want to address the increase that was
used because it wasn't clarified. And I think it might have been increased to service revenue, service
hours, or increase to funds to be able to provide more or a more robust policy or a more robust financing
of increased boardings to our system. Is that correct?

KAREN BENKER: I apologize for the barking dog. See what happens when we take a 10-minute break. I
had to let him out because they've been locked up for hours since we had two meetings prior to this one.
It's basically I'd like to understand, depending on what kind of ridership increases we're going for next
year, I am assuming there are different costs associated with them. And I'd like to better understand how
they're calculated. For example, if we increase the frequency of a rail line, is that cost different than
perhaps starting a brand new route or adding trips?
And so, I don't know, maybe there's just a formula, a standard formula for all of that. But I don't know. And
so that's some of the background information I would like to get. So thank you. Sorry for the barking dog.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Very good. Thank you. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think-- I know I can speak for Chair Bouquet on this too.
We're both very interested in finding some additional funding for the Partnership Program. I understand
that all the money has not been used yet this year. However, he and I have heard together and
independently a lot of interest from the communities to the south of Denver in pursuing that money.
I think it's highly valuable in PR with our local governments. And I think there's also helping them submit
appropriate and approvable requests. But I think having a bigger pool of money helps us draw more
interest in pursuing the program. So I know I can speak for him on that, but that is an area we'd like to
look at expanding.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Excellent. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I do apologize because I was unable to attend the retreat
due to long time, 6-month prior obligations. And so I don't know what the priorities were for that.
But my personal priority is to really take a look at the financial trade-offs of providing access on demand
and paratransit service and increasing the eligibility and boundaries for that. So that's something that I
would really like to see. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I'm taking notes as you're talking just to make sure I've got it down.
Director Ruscha, your hand was up next.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I concur about paratransit. This is the second time now that
Director Caitlin has beat me to the punch. It throws me off.
So I have a comment, and I was trying to type this out because I was afraid it would land incorrectly. So
this might not be popular with some. But as a member of the body, I feel like if I feel strongly enough, I
should say something, and as gently as possible.
I just want to note that over the last several years, we have fallen away from visibility into our staffing
overhead and labor costs. That is a bullet in the slide that we just saw. And while I don't disparage
anybody for making a good wage, I would be remiss if I did not note that RTD is one of the most, if not the
most generous employer, public employer in this state and is also competitive with the private sector as
well.
And one of the costs that we incur for our salaried employees is 100% of their retirement contributions.
And that is a very-- that is not an insignificant number. And so I think that the Board-- we need to have a

conversation or have a look at that again, particularly if we're talking about trade-offs. It really pains me
that we are talking about making drastic changes to paratransit for a couple million dollars without looking
at some other potential cost savings.
And I'm not saying we put that on the backs of our front-line workers. And again, I don't disparage
anybody for the wage you're making or the benefits that you have. But that is potentially tens of millions of
dollars in cost savings if our salaried employees contributed just a little bit, not all of it, not even half, but
just a little. So thank you in advance for being gracious for my comments. That's all I have. Thank you.
And that was my dog.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So it sounds looking at some of the total compensation for salaried members of staff
as a consideration. That seems fair. And it is part of the fiduciary responsibility. So I see no problem with
that. Director Nicholson, your hand was up next.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. Thank you. Can you all hear me OK?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I have a couple of things to mention. First off, an even more
welcoming transit environment, security in particular, has been the number one thing that I've heard from
everyone in my community. And I think that we have some real opportunities with our new Chief to make
some strategic, thoughtful investments into improvements in security and the other aspects of welcoming
transit environment. And I'll be bringing some stuff forward later this year in as a result of the Welcoming
Transit Environment working group.
Second, I want to echo what Patrick said. There have been a number of entities within District A that have
expressed interest in the partnerships. I'd like to see some of that money used for building like transit
partnership plans specifically, because I feel like that facilitates getting organizations, communities,
neighborhoods, et cetera, to the point of being able to make those investments if they're not already
there. So that would be a specific call out for a million bucks in that.
And then the third one is, we have two key divisions within RTD that I think are meaningfully understaffed.
And those are Government Affairs and the Board Office. And I think that this is an opportunity in the
budget this year to make significant increases in the capability of the Board Office to do some of the
additional work.
I mean, I'll be quite frank. We have a bunch of new Directors now who like making requests of staff time.
And I think that we need some additional staff within the Board Office to facilitate that. And we also have,
a very small, relative to other entities in the state of our size, Government Relations team. We have one
full-time staffer who is handling 55 jurisdictions and a bunch of other legislators, everything. And I think
we need to make the kind of investments necessary to offer the same kind of government relations power
that entities like the University of Colorado does, which has a much, much larger team compared to us.
So those are my priorities-- security, partnerships, and then increasing the Government Affairs and the
Board Office. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. But you don't get your own secretary, Director Nicholson. You are the secretary
of the Board, to be clear.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: You still have to share, which means you got to let the rest of us get a chance to
bite at the apple, buddy. All right.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Absolutely. Deal.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Benker, your hand went back up. Go ahead.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, it did. And this is more for Director Catlin. Peggy, I've been meaning to contact
you, actually, because I've been approached by a couple of people to get involved with Access-A-Ride.
And while this is not one part of my skill set that I can bring to RTD, I'd like to learn as much as I can.
And I would like to also look at the rules and the boundaries that we use for Access-A-Ride, because I
see in your district, and probably also in my district and probably a couple of other districts, Access-ARide really isn't well known. And I've also been hearing a lot of issues with it-- trying to schedule and
trying to get folks from point A to point B. And so, if you're looking for any help on that particular issue,
count me in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, if I might real quickly.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It's just been top of mind for me. And I just think we as a Board need to
really look at it a little bit more broadly. So thank you, Karen.
KAREN BENKER: Of course, Peggy.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: To that end, Chair Ruscha, in the Operation Safety and Security Committee, are we
looking at this service in particular and the boundaries and issues like that? Is that not a conversation
coming up on your work plan?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes. So tomorrow, join us tomorrow, same time, different Zoom link. And so we'll be
talking about paratransit legacy status as-- and I believe we expect to have a vote on on-demand in July.
So please, members, continue to weigh in and share that feedback.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All at once and everything. Director Caitlin-JOYANN RUSCHA: --a lot.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, but I believe that our CEO has a comment.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, I just want to add just a little more context to what Director Ruscha said
about July. It's actually the program modifications as it relates to two issues regarding paratransit. So I
just want to amplify what she said in the sense of this is a critical issue. And when we were seeking
guidance, just what, two weeks ago, relative to deciding what we will do going forward with our paratransit
programs, and would encourage all of you to lean in. And Director Ruscha has been leading this charge.
And Director Chandler has been a part of that as well. So I just wanted to share, for those that may not be
familiar, that have not participated in the Operation Safety and Security Committee. So thank you,
Director Ruscha, for shepherding this.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And in the context of the Financial and Planning Committee, I just wanted to
say that we wanted to take a look at what opportunities we might have to expand paratransit and access
on-demand and other things to-- and that would mean some financial and budgetary shifts. So that's
really where I was coming from in the context of our Financial and Planning. That's all I had. I don't need
me to protract this meeting any more than it needs to be.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No. Thank you. I just knew that was also coming up on OSS's work plan
immediately and imminently. So it's a both/and, a one-two punch, I think. So I do have a couple of things
that I'll add. Director Ruscha, your hand is still up. Was there more from you?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. I put it back up before, and then you called on me about OSS. Is it OK-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, thanks, sir. So moving forward, when this-- I almost said NPFP, I'm sorry. When
the Five-Year Financial Forecast comes back in greater detail or we get closer to budget season, I'd just
like to put in a request for greater visibility into our vacancies and budgeted positions.
We have not been able to fill some of these budgeted positions. But they're in our budget. And so if that
is-- I think on maybe on a macro level, that you don't see that budget variability unless you're zooming in.
And so I think it would benefit the Board to have just more greater visibility.
And to that end, and this is a bit of a piggyback on what Secretary Nicholson said, just an understanding-we used to get this in OSS and I think it's moved to Performance. But just generally like where are we
short staffed and what departments? Because that also gives-- that helps manage the Board's
expectations. And it helps us understand where we are and what potential challenges that we might have
relative to our goals in Planning, whether that's something in OSS or something in F&P, which takes care
of some of the longer-range planning.
So that's like-- I know I'm not on this committee anymore. But I'm still a member of the Board. And that
would just be a request I would make with staff as we move into budget season.
And then finally, I would be-- I would personally be super excited. I might even duct tape it to my wall in
excitement. But if we could get that CIP book, our Capital Improvement Projects book, out-- even if it's a
starting point not the same level of product we would have next year, before the end of third quarter, I
think that would also benefit the Board as well and reduce some interference in questions as we vote on
the budget in November. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, just one bit of information I just wanted to share with this body, recognizing that
conversations had incurred-- or ensued, excuse me, at the Performance Committee that we had on
Monday, June 2, whereby we had a question that was raised by Secretary Nicholson about our retention
rates. That information is forthcoming.
He and I had an opportunity to have our one-on-one, and I had spoken with staff relative to the data we
were pulling together. So by week's end, there should be information relative to positions and things of

the like. So I'm broaching that in light of Director Ruscha's comment that that's forthcoming, because we
wanted to ensure that we could provide year-over-year data.
And I will state that our retention rate is on the rise. And so I think that's something great. But I don't want
to speak too far out of school. But this full body, i.e., the Board will be receiving that information relative to
how we're doing. And it's not just front-line represented positions as well. It speaks to those that are nonrepresented. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right. Here are mine, Ms. Mackey. I really do want to keep an eye on
cost for facility and fleet transition, as we're under pressure from the state to be able to transition our
fleets. But that starts with our facilities. So whether that looks like purchasing land, building a new
building, whatever that entails, there's a whole process going on there. And I know that our CEO is on top
of that part. But I think just looking out, that's going to be something we need to concern ourselves with in
any budget going forward, particularly because I believe in the seventh generation thinking-- it's not just
us, it's the next seven generations that follow. So how do we prepare for that?
We are also currently engrossed in the bus stop in-- I wanted to say investigation, but it's the bus stop
review of all of them, that we have and what we need to take care of. And I think that infrastructure is
really important. So I know that when we're talking about trade-offs or wise use of money, ensuring
people have a safe place and a secure place to board with good wayfinding, shade, protection from the
elements in our four season state, it's important.
I do believe, given the report we received from the state demographer's office, we need to take special
consideration for how we are going to serve our elderly community and our folks that are going to have
needs that are not going to fall necessarily under ADA provisions, but just need to be thoughtful about
how we approach that. But it does align with our ADA services and our paratransit services.
One big concern that I have is that we are an older agency. And we need to update technology. And we
need to make sure that we are using state-of-the-art technology to be a state-of-the-art trusted transit
system.
Finally, I would say, and I'm not sure quite how this process works, but as Chair of this committee, I want
to ensure that Board Office staff, which is not normally under the regular agency guidelines, has the
opportunity to provide their needs in the budgeting process so that we are ensuring our direct reports
here in the Board Office have what they need to do their jobs and do them effectively for us and with all of
the agency staff as well. That doesn't necessarily mean additional employees, although that's been
raised. But it does mean when they have concerns, needs, or they have to procure items that they have a
budget to be able to do with that is not overlooked.
I feel like sometimes I've gone through the budget, and it seems like it's a little bit of a hit or miss on that
particular item. So from a Director looking out for the staff that does serve us and helps us do all of our
work, sometimes those procurements cannot be delayed because we can't function properly as
government without them. That's what I have. Does that satisfy your questions for now?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, absolutely. And to add to the last point, I've already seen the start of some slides
around Board Office requests and what can be funded to help facilitate discussion. So thank you. Thank
you to everybody for your feedback. Appreciate it.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Mr. Kroll, would we be able to send these three particular questions out to
the members of the Board that are not here and compile an email to send back so that CFO Mackey is
not receiving 20 emails?
JACK KROLL: Absolutely.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you so much. All right. Sorry, my computer screen just locked on me.
Give me one second.
That gets us through our discussion items. So we are now on other matters. Director Ruscha is the
Director for District B, where Central Park is located, and has requested, because she was attending to
another elected official at the time that I called on her for comment on the previous matter, an opportunity
to speak about the transit-oriented development that was passed out of committee.
So I'd like to enter her comments into the record, although I know that Ms. Brady has gone home for the
evening. I'm certain that either between Ms. Johnson and Mr. Peña, we will be able to answer some
concerns. And if not, we can certainly follow up with you, Director, in short, order to address any concerns
or comments you may have. And this does go to the Board for further consideration. So the floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Gentle reminder on pronouns, but I appreciate it. So I just
wanted to-- and I also apologize. I had to step away earlier. Circling back to the Central Park project, to
my Board colleagues, I was listening really intently. I heard you, and I just wanted a quick offer some
thoughts as a resident of this neighborhood and a high frequency user of Central Park station.
EcoPasses were mentioned. And I just wanted to flag for everyone's consideration that if we have a high
number of AMI-restricted units, an EcoPass might actually prove to be more expensive for some residents
than our LiVE pass. And I think that's something that we ran into with airport workers. And sometimes we
have the same issue with our college EcoPass system. So just something to keep in mind. But I
understand that, staff will keep an eye on that.
Parking, I know that the west lot can look full when you approach, especially from the southeast end. But
even pre-COVID, it never was. I'm at the station like three to five days a week, whether it's bus or car,
there's room. I would not support the project if I felt it would impact airport travel, for example, and using
our train.
With that, I think that the best way to ensure maximum efficiency with this station is to build out our bus
system. So Central Park, for example, has had a transit and bus plan for-- it's like 17, maybe 18 years old
now. But it hasn't been fully built out yet, nor has our SOP been fully realized in this area. So I think part
of TOD is having those connections and bus connections are still needed here.
But with that, just pivoting to staff, and I understand some might have to be a follow up email. I did have
a-- I've been tracking this one. And it was my understanding just for the-- in order to score favorably, the
developer needed to demonstrate financial capacity for their proposal. And so I don't know if I
misunderstood the presentation, but it sounded like that might be a question. So just to comment.
And I think coupled with the fact that this was originally proposed as 800 units and now we're at 500 units
and that will be done in phases, I'd feel irresponsible if I didn't flag it. And that's something I'd ask staff to
maybe get us more information on as it comes time to close, particularly if we are now putting in millions
of dollars.

And I understand that Agency wanted wide latitude. I am uncomfortable with this many unknowns. As you
might have been able to tell from our last month's meeting. I wouldn't feel comfortable without having a
little bit more visibility before this goes to a vote. And I understand why the PowerPoint was high level. So
I was going to ask Ms. Brady or Ms. Johnson if it'd be permissible if I just reach out and get a one on one,
just to get a little deeper understanding, recognizing this is my district, my neighborhood, and I might lose
my head with some constituency groups if I didn't.
So I don't know if that puts our GM on the spot. But that was a request that I had. And I-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, most definitely, Ms. Brady offered that up because I know there's a lot of
interest in transit-oriented development. And there could be a myriad of questions as this is a topic in
which there's a lot of interest and some may not be as familiar. So, yes, that's totally permissible. As we
go through this, if you could just ensure that you copy Angel and I, so Ms. Brady has an understanding
that it's all good in the neighborhood. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, if I may quickly. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I
appreciate that. So with that, this would be helpful for me, maybe others would find it helpful as well, I
didn't-- from my perspective, didn't see a whole lot of difference between the presentation except for
maybe the phases from the first, or I should say the last of the first, the last time this was brought to
committee and the Board approved it and this time.
So I understand some of that might be granular. But for those who are really interested in transit-oriented
development, in the future, it might be helpful to have a chart, especially because we're now considering
discounts that weren't necessarily on the table before. So I just wanted to put that out there. Maybe that's
something I can discuss in a one on one, but I thought that might be helpful for others as well.
Now, I do have three-- sorry, four questions, very specific questions. The first is, can I just get
confirmation I understood correctly that our ground leases will have covenants with them that extend for
the full duration of the lease? Or that could be a follow-up answer.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It may need to be a follow-up answer at this point, but I will make sure that I take
note of it and we will get an answer to you promptly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks, sir. I'm sorry. Is it OK if I-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. I'll also send you the questions I have in front of me. The next one I
had was just if the agency could help us understand how we are going to be able to track or ensure that
the developer is meeting their end of the bargain, the literal bargain, the literal bargain.
I noted I live in Central Park. And when the city gave up quite a bit of land to build this out, one of the
expectations was that we would have a certain level of affordable housing. And we are 20 years out and
that was never met. And so just understanding what kind of checks that we have to ensure that,
especially this is a very long lease, that they're meeting their end of the bargain would be helpful for me
and maybe my colleagues.

Specifically, I had a question about how many accessible units the building will have. I assume per our
new policy, they'll at least meet HUD guidelines. But any more visibility into that and what the developer
has planned would be helpful. So that could be a follow-up.
And then, I kid you not, my constituents have asked this several times. And I feel like it's the right
moment. So I don't mind passing it along. And I hope the Chair doesn't mind.
But what is the status of Balloon Man? Is he safe? And if you know you know. I see the Chair laughing.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I know exactly what you're talking about-JOYANN RUSCHA: I looked at the time and it seemed to fit. So-MICHAEL GUZMAN: For the Directors that do not know what Balloon Man is, it is an art piece that is at
Central Park station. And-JOYANN RUSCHA: --art piece-MICHAEL GUZMAN: --like all of our stations have distinct artwork, it is something that the community
wants to protect. And so I'm sure that there's probably nothing wrong with Balloon Man. He will be safe
and sound. But I will ask the question, and we can follow-up for sure. It may be a little silly, but our
communities do really love their stations, when they have one. So, Mr. Kroll, I see your hand raised.
JACK KROLL: Beloved Balloon Man is back up. I ride by him every day. And I noticed when he was gone
and he came back, maybe in the last month or two. Very squeaky clean.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just-- I guess I should specify I saw him as well, but I just want to make sure that
he's not going to disappear or anything with this new development or construction, we just want to make
sure we keep them safe from any potential hazards.
So for those of you who don't know, Balloon Man to Central Park is kind of like Blucifer at DIA to
everybody else, very sacred. And somebody asked, making sure he wasn't going to go away again. So I
put it out there. That was definitely other other matters. But thank you for entertaining me. And, Mr. Chair,
I wrote down my question, so I'll just email them to you directly.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I appreciate that. Thank you. And to the members of the committee, I appreciate
your patience while we seek information and input from the Director in whose district we just made a
decision to the full Board. So it is important that we respect each other. And I think that is the kindest way
to do it.
All right. We have one last item to discuss. And I do need to beg your attention on this one, everybody,
because we have had some major changes to our work plan. An email was sent out with the updated
work plan to everybody, I believe, before the beginning of this meeting. Not yet? OK, it will go out
promptly afterwards. But we're going to discuss it now.
So let me get this out of the way. The next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for
Tuesday, July 15. And before we move to adjourn, we're going to pull up our work plan and check in on it.
And moving forward, I would like to make sure we do this at the end of every meeting.

We are members of a committee that has a lot of work to do. And so we should know this work plan better
than anybody else. I literally sleep on two work plans at night to osmosize them into my brain and keep
everything rolling. So, Mr. Kroll, would you kindly pull up the current version of the work plan?
This will help us keep our focus through the end of the year. And the intention of the work plan, per Board
policy, is that this is the one location everybody should be able to check in on and see what we are
working on and what is coming up in the future, so we can prepare the adequate amount of time to do our
duty as Directors. And so we are certainly committed to getting this through.
Now, back in February, the committee met. We had three simple requests. That was for the items of a
Capital Improvement Plan report, or book. We had a request for the real estate listing of the agency. And
we had a request for fares collection from staff. Those three items are not going away, but some had to
be moved in order to make space while there were transitions in the agency.
Knowing that, in July, this is what we're looking at. We have several staff actions that have been pulled
over, a comprehensive operational analysis budget transfer. We will look at the staff action for the RFP
for the new Bus Maintenance Facility Alternatives Analysis and National Environmental Policy Act study.
We will look at bus stop infrastructure accessibility assessments. There's a contract amendment that we
need to consider there.
We should be able to take action on the downtown rail reconstruction progressive design build contract
award, the US 36 Sheridan Bus Bay expansion and the East Metro hoist replacement and district shops
hoist replacement. All of these items are capital improvements or contracts that fall under our purview, so
we're going to attack those. That's a lot of reading and detail. So thank you for being attentive to the
homework and coming prepared with your questions.
When these are put forward to the public, you can attack at will and start reading through them. And then
if there are questions that we can try and get answered ahead of time, please feel free to email myself.
Send questions or inquiries to Board Office so that we can try and get all of this wrapped up and
information into your hands as quickly as possible.
We do have the pending discussion for the Five-Year Financial forecast from 2026 to 2030. And then we
have the inventory of RTD properties. That will be coming up as a committee requested item at the end of
that meeting.
It feels like a lot of work. It's one bite at a time. But if we are efficient with our time management, we
should be able to get through all of that. And that is in July. Are there any questions about what is coming
up from the committee members?
And I can't see everybody, so if you have your hand raised, just go ahead and unmute and speak. All
right. Seeing none, then let's move on. I want to take a quick look at September as well. Sorry, Jack, if
you pull that back up real quick.
In September after our break in August, we have staff action item for the Five-Year Financial Forecast,
which will have been discussed. We have a full two months to provide feedback on that from the first
discussion. The staff recommended action to open payments and expand retail network fare equity
analysis, that will come to us from Carl Green, Civil Rights, and from contracts, Monika Treiple-Harnke
will bring information about that.

There will be a discussion about the 2026 fiscal policy that was requested earlier. So again, if there are
comments that need to be made, get them to me sooner rather than later. It would probably be beneficial
to send that with the including the CEO and the CFO on that email.
A discussion about the 2026 investment policy, also heavy reading for September, and then committee
discussions for fare box recovery opportunities, and the committee discussion for capital improvement
projects-- both are committee discussion items that were requested in February and will be completed in
September.
And I want to just thank staff for working with us to get all of this done in a timely order, so that we can
then turn our attention to the most important work this committee does in terms of our annual cycle, which
is turning back to our fiscal policy and budgeting that will be coming up immediately after that through the
end of the year. That's what we will be focused on. So this will be sent out to all members of the
committee. And the Board will have insight into this. I will definitely make sure that I confer and share with
the Chair of Operation Safety and Security, Director Ruscha, and make sure that we are in sync on that
so that there's no missed opportunities.
All right. Now that we've outlined those items coming our way, any questions or comments at this point?
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just wanted to say great work. And this is going to be a very hard act to follow
tomorrow night. Thanks, buddy.
[LAUGHTER]

MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's everybody working together. That's how we get it done. One RTD.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Jeff better help me out when we get to ours tomorrow. Good job.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. OK. Seeing no other discussion or comments, let's go ahead and
adjourn. We will adjourn this meeting at 8:15 PM. Thank you for coming prepared. Thank you for the hard
work. Have a good night.

‭greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com‬

‭Submitted as Public Comment to the‬
‭RTD Finance and Planning Committee Meeting, June 10th, 2025.‬
‭June 10th, 2025‬
‭ ichael Guzman, RTD Finance and Planning Committee Chair‬
M
‭Regional Transportation District‬
‭1660 Blake Street‬
‭Denver, CO 80202‬
‭Dear Chair Guzman,‬
‭Central Park Development‬
‭ lease see attached letter, sent last year to Chessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager, for our‬
P
‭public comment on this topic.‬
‭Thanks for all you do,‬

‭James Flattum‬

‭Richard Bamber‬

‭Emma Griffin‬

‭Joe Meyer‬

‭CC:‬

‭ TD Board of Directors‬
R
‭Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO‬
‭Angel Peña, RTD Deputy CEO‬

‭www.greaterdenvertransit.com‬

‭Page‬‭1‬

‭greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com‬

‭July 23rd, 2024‬
‭ hessy Brady, Transit-Oriented Development Manager, Planning‬
C
‭Regional Transportation District (RTD)‬
‭1660 Blake Street‬
‭Denver, CO 80202‬
‭Dear Ms. Brady,‬
‭Central Park Development Negotiation / Bus Stop #34671‬
‭ reater Denver Transit (GDT) welcomes the recent Board approval for RTD to enter into negotiations with a‬
G
‭developer to lease the property located at 3801 N Ulster Street, Denver, Colorado. We would like to commend‬
‭the efforts of RTD staff that have enabled the redevelopment, and look forward to staff’s future efforts. The‬
‭decision to rectify the over-provision of car parking at RTD’s commuter rail stations affords the agency great‬
‭opportunities to make better use of the land. In particular, we are excited for the development of transit-rich,‬
‭walkable and affordable communities that provide an enhanced quality of life to residents.‬
‭ s redevelopment of the area occurs alongside an‬
A
‭increase in transit riders, we would like to make‬
‭particular note of one bus stop. Bus stop #34671,‬
‭located at the 7800 Block of Smith Road, currently has‬
‭inadequate facilities: namely, it only has a pole in the‬
‭ground with the associated ADA-compliant concrete‬
‭pad that connects it to the sidewalk (please see the‬
‭provided screenshot). Provided that this stop is‬
‭retained in the course of redevelopment, we would‬
‭kindly request that RTD incorporates into its negotiated‬
‭lease with the developer provisions to upgrade and‬
‭maintain bus stop #34671. We would like to see it‬
‭upgraded with amenities including, but not limited to:‬
‭seating, a trash can(s), shelter, lighting and a location‬
‭for printed map / schedule(s) to be displayed. In‬
‭addition, the means to install electronic passenger information displays (e.g. power and data connections)‬
‭should be provided. Providing these amenities will allow for transit riders to have a dignified experience while‬
‭waiting for their bus.‬
‭Sincerely,‬

‭ ames Flattum‬
J
‭Greater Denver Transit‬

‭www.greaterdenvertransit.com‬

‭ ichard Bamber‬
R
‭Greater Denver Transit‬

‭Page‬‭1‬

