1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 21, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fifteen (15) Board Members were present at roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
John Rossi, Storeroom Supervisor, 27 years
Kevin Thomas, Bus Operator, 26 Years
Neither of the retirees was present for the award. Chair Kemp acknowledged their
contributions to RTD and wished them well on their retirement from RTD.
SPECIAL AWARD
General Manager Washington made a special presentation to Terry Rosapep, FTA Region
8 Administrator. Terry has served this 6-state area for a number of years. RTD has
benefited significantly from the support of Terry’s office and the FTA. Terry was
especially instrumental in the securing of the FFGA.
Chair Kemp thanked Terry for his assistance across the industry including private
companies engaged in the transit industry. Terry and his staff have provided pertinent
information related to FTA rules and regulations.
Terry Rosapep thanked RTD for their kind words and stated that in some ways he feels
like he worked for RTD. He has spent over 23 years working with the likes of General
Manager Washington and Director Anderson. It has been a great experience and he has
fond memories.
Director Anderson commented that Terry Rosapep has been a great steward of
transportation for all these years. She expressed her personal thanks to him for what he
has done for this region.
Director James credited Terry with his embarking on a transportation journey that has led

him to RTD. He appreciated the vote of confidence and the privilege to work with Terry
on a couple of committees.
Director Tayer introduced himself and shared a conversation that he had with Steve
Turner, former employee of Terry Rosapep. The comment was Terry looks way too young
to be retiring. Director Tayer had worked with Terry during his stint with the City of
Boulder. He too wished him the best in his new endeavors.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
David Butler from unincorporated eastern Boulder spoke on behalf of the Friends of the
Boulder Erie Rail Trail ( FOBERT). He referred to some of the details being worked on
between the County and RTD and encouraged them to get this worked out as timely as
possible.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Director Daly noted that the names were incorrect on the Planning & Development minutes
pertaining to the motion for approval of the RTD Re-districting. This information has been
corrected.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley noted that the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee had met earlier in preparation for the General Manager’s contract
negotiation that will occur in 2012. The current contract expires at the end of 2012.
The Committee members have been assigned a buddy and will be contacting their buddy
to provide updates of their activities. Negotiating for the contract is one of the most
critical functions for the Board and they will work with the General Manager in exercising
their due diligence to secure a good contract.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 24, 2012
MOTION:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
approve minutes from the regular Board
meeting of January 24, 2012.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor and 2 abstain (Bagley,
Tayer)
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT




Chair Kemp reported on Transportation Secretary LaHood’s visit to the West Rail
Line and expressed appreciation from the Board on the positive relationship being
established with our nation’s capitol.
Chair Kemp expressed appreciation to the Board members who attended or
participated in the SWTA conference that was hosted by RTD in Denver. He




IX.

acknowledged Director Deadwyler for volunteering to work the conference and the
other Directors who attended, namely Directors Anderson, O’Boyle and Tobiassen.
Chair Kemp indicated that the Urban Leadership Symposium was well attended by
the Board members.
Chair Kemp provided an update on the Metro Mayors. The Metro Mayors continue
to discuss the options related to NW Rail and staff has been more than willing to
provide all requested information. We are hopeful to obtain feedback prior to the
March 8 vote by the Board. Director Anderson added the Metro Mayors are
showing a great amount of interest in what is happening.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 General Manager Washington shared there will be a public meeting with regional
stakeholders regarding the options for Northwest Fixed Guidelines on February 22,
2012. This meeting will be facilitated by an outside facilitator. The two presenters,
Martin Young with Sound Transit and Annie Weinstock with ITDP are prepared to
speak on their experiences with commuter rail and BRT. They spent some time today
having good dialog and listening to the concerns of stakeholders at the US 36
meeting. Staff remains on target for their timeline of March 5th to brief the Board with
a decision due on March 8th.
 General Manager Washington has been asked to present at the Chicago Privatization
Conference March 13, 2012. He will be sharing the Denver PPP experience.
 RTD has created an ADA Advisory Committee to address the 508 compliance issues.
This committee will work at a staff level to ensure the readability of our documents
and that we are 508 compliant.
 General Manager Washington provided a tour of the RTD facilities and DUS for FTA
Administrator Peter Rogoff and the newly appointed APTA President, Michael
Melaniphy.
 RTD has initiated the Smart card pilot in Boulder. There are about 50 busses
equipped for EcoPass.
 Staff has provided the Board with the requested NW rail costs.
Director Deadwyler asked if there were any opportunities for the Chair or members of the
Board to be included on the speaking engagement invitations to the General Manager.
Chair Kemp responded that he and the General Manager meet on a regular basis and
discuss these speaking engagements. Where appropriate, he or Board members have
attended or participated in some of these events. He shared as an example, his recent
visit to Florida as part of the delegation with Representative Mica.
Director James added that each Board member can make their own opportunity and
shared an opportunity that he has made to present to a real estate group in San Diego.
Director Tobiassen thanked Phil for his support on compliance and accessibility.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp provided a correction to item G of the unanimous consent, May 2012 service
changes. The corrected information should have reflected an annualized cost increase of
approximately $936,100 which was correct in the attached Board of Directors report.
Chair Kemp requested a motion to move the unanimous consent forward.
MOTION:
Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda,
items A through J.

Director James seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

A. Approval of Board of Directors Redistricting
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the recommendation of the Redistricting Committee regarding the map
for new Director District boundaries.

B. Vanpool Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to
provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $459,084.00.
C. Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the
City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business and residential
areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,390,348.00.
D. Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and is for an amount not to exceed
$282,656.00.
E. Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in
the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $400,000.00.
F. Cost Sharing Agreements-FTA Section 5311 Funding

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2012 and for amounts not to exceed $325,532.00 for
Boulder County, $133,955.00 for Adams County and $99,270.00 for Jefferson County.
G. May 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2012 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in a annualized cost increase of approximately $936,100 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
H. West Line/I-225 O&M Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes a budget transfer of $828,869 from the West Line/I225O&M expense to capital for vehicle purchases for the West Line in 2012. This is a
transfer and will not increase the 2012 Adopted Budget. It is necessary to allocate this
amount to capital to facilitate West Line support vehicle purchases and for proper
accounting for FasTracks capital purchases.
I. Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and County of Denver and the City of Aurora
for the Peoria Street Grade Separation Crossing
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver and
the City of Aurora for the Peoria Street Grade Separation Crossing. This action authorizes
funding from RTD in the amount of up to $20 million from the Eagle Project for the Grade
Separation Project for the purpose of preparing appropriate National Environmental Policy
Act documents, design, right-of-way acquisition, construction and all related activities.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute any subsequent amendments to this IGA, or additional IGAs for
this Project, as long as said amendments or additional IGAs do not exceed the $20 million
RTD contribution authorized in this action.
J. Recommend Approval of Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the Southeast Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the Southeast Extension
project that consists of a 2.3-mile extension of light rail transit (LRT) from the current
end-of-line station at Lincoln Avenue (see attached). The extension is proposed to
continue south from Lincoln Station, cross over Lincoln Avenue to just north of SkyRidge
Medical Center; continue east over I-25 to the proposed Lone Tree City Center; and then
extend south where it will cross over RidgeGate Parkway and to a new end-of-line
station. Three new stations are included in the LPA, two new Kiss-n-Ride stations at
SkyRidge Medical Center and the Lone Tree City Center, and a new end-of-line station
Immediately south of RidgeGate Parkway.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K. Cost Sharing Agreement with Ride Provide
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with
Ride Provide to provide RTD support for the
A-Line operations. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an
amount
not to exceed $168,826.
MOTION:
Director Tayer made the motion to
approve the cost sharing agreement with
Ride Provide.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.
Director Anderson indicated she would be
abstaining from voting on this item since
she had a conflict of interest. Rolf
Asphaug, Assistant General Counsel,
further commented that this item would
not necessarily have required a Board
approval. However, in the interest of
disclosure, it was brought before the
Board for a vote since Director
Anderson’s daughter works for Ride
Provide.

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor and 1 abstain (Director
Anderson).
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

L. Approval of Legislative Committee Changes
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of directors change the
name of the Legislative Committee to the Government Relations Committee and set a
monthly meeting time.
Chair Kemp indicated this item had come before the Executive Committee for approval.
However, in order to give the full Board a chance to review the changes and to comment,
this items was moved forward under recommended action. He asked Director Daly, Chair of
this new committee, Government Relations, for comments. Director Daly commented that
CRL is now performing local liaison functions with municipalities and cities. The Legislative
Committee scope was expanded to include this additional function. This will be a standing
committee that will meet on the first Tuesday of the month in the rotational cycle with
FasTracks and P&D.
Director Williams indicated that for her district and constituents, they fully embraced this as a
positive engagement.

MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the changes to the Legislative
Committee.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

XII.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp noted that the next meeting of the FasTracks/P&D/Government Relations
Committee has been moved to Monday, March 5th to accommodate the local communities
and the Democratic caucus. A special Board meeting will be Thursday, March 8th for the
Board members to vote on the three options.
 Director O’Boyle thanked staff for the information on the changes in the cost for the
Northwest Rail. He requested more information associated with each change. Director
Anderson asked for a copy of the information provided to Director O’Boyle.
 Chair Kemp noted the joint Board-Staff Planning Session will be next Saturday, March 3,
2012. A survey will be sent to all Board members and senior staff related to strategic items
for discussion. Director Deadwyler asked if there would be opportunity for the Board to
discuss matters of Board interest such as meeting structure, etc or teambuilding. Director
Tayer indicated there may be a teambuilding opportunity.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XVII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:34 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, February 21, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams

District I
District O
District H
District M
District C
District L
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
All Present

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rolf Asphaug
Shirley Bennett
Jessie Carter
Rick Clarke
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil

Austin Jenkins
Doug MacLeod
Brian Matthews
Barbara McManus
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Jannette Scarpino

John Shonsey
Walt Stringer
John Tarbert
Crystal Tuggle
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT: Matt Alexander – Stantec, David Butler – (FOBERT), Wayne Canthew, Hannah
Gilbertson – Student, Kate Henrich – DU Student, Daryl Kinton, Terry Rosapep - FTA, Chris Taylor – Spectrum
and Bob Wilson.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

