1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, August 13, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services
• Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor Articulated Buses
• Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses for access-a-Ride Service
C. Updates

• Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review
• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

• Smart Card Project Status Update

 Update on 6 Hour Special Events Pass - No Back Up
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - September 10, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of Access-aRide Call Center services with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for three years, with two one-year
options for a total 5-year amount not to exceed $11,074,125. This proposal represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-026, to
provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective October 1, 2013.
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. All
policies regarding services were developed in concert with a citizen advisory committee comprised of
individuals from the disabled community. The original design of the Access-a-Ride program was adopted
by the RTD Board of Directors and was forwarded to the Federal Transportation Administration for their
approval.
The current Access-a-Ride structure consists of one Call Center Contractor and four Service Provider
Contractors. First Transit operates the Call Center while MV Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, Via
Mobility, and Global Transportation provide the service. In addition, all paratransit eligibility functions
are handled by Easter Seals of Colorado.
On May 29, 2013, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals to
provide Access-a-Ride Call Center Services. This service represents the re-bid of service currently
provided by First Transit. The RFP was mailed to 11 firms that indicated an interest in proposing on this
service. In addition, announcements were placed in transit publications. Proposals were due on June
28, 2013.
DISCUSSION
Four (4) proposals were received in response to RFP 13-DH-026 for the Provision of Access-a-Ride Call
Center services. Proposals were received from First Transit, MTM, SCR, and Veolia Transportation.
It is the recommendation of the evaluation committee formed to evaluate proposals received in response
to RFP 13-DH-026, that RTD award a contract for Access-a-Ride Call Center service to First Transit.
This recommendation is based upon the evaluation of the proposals according to the evaluative criteria
as set forth in the RFP for this procurement. The evaluative criteria established for this procurement
were: a) understanding/approach and organization for implementation (40%); b) experience of firm and
individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines (30%); and c) price (30%).

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

The evaluation team consisted of Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services; Larry Buter,
Manager of Paratransit Services; Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services; David Terada, ITS
Administrator; Joy Volz, Paratransit Quality Assurance Supervisor; and Chris Sills, Paratransit Safety and
Training Compliance Officer.
The members of the evaluation team individually reviewed the technical proposals submitted by the four
proposers. Each team member evaluated the proposals on how well the proposal met the evaluative
criteria set forth for the procurement and assigned a score for “Understanding and Approach” and for
“Experience and Proposed Key Positions.” Based on the average of the individual scores received in
these categories, First Transit was the highest rated technical proposal followed by Veolia Transportation
and MTM. SCR was the lowest rated technical proposal. The score for the “Cost” element of each
proposal was calculated by the RTD procurement staff and was then added to the technical score of
each proposal to determine the overall score or rating of each proposal. The total overall scores resulted
in First Transit being the highest rated proposal followed by MTM and Veolia Transportation. SCR was
the lowest rated proposal. First Transit received an overall total score of 91 (out of 100); MTM received
an overall total score of 79. Veolia Transportation received a total score of 77 and SCR received an
overall score of 74. It was the consensus of the evaluation team that First Transit presented the best
proposal in terms of understanding of the project, proposed management team, proposed
organization/business plan/approach to deliver the requested service, and proposed price.
First Transit was the lowest priced proposal. The difference in price over the five-year period between
First Transit and MTM was $497,683. The overall rating represents the evaluation process conclusion
that the strengths of the First Transit technical proposal outweighed the strengths of the MTM, Veolia,
and SCR proposals. While the strengths of the MTM proposal included an experienced General Manager,
the proposal was determined to be weak in the areas of pay scale for reservationists and for not
identifying a Training Manager. The strengths of the Veolia Transportation proposal included an
experienced Firm, General Manager, and proposed use of “Reveal,” software designed to improve
efficiencies. However, the proposal failed to identify the Scheduling, Reservations, or Dispatch
Supervisors. In addition, the evaluation committee felt that the Veolia Transportation proposal
inadequately scheduled enough resources for both the reservations and dispatch departments. Finally,
the strengths of the SCR proposal included an experienced General Manager, scheduling software
experience, and experience with providing both paratransit and Medicaid transportation services. The
evaluation team was concerned with SCR’s proposed Assistant General Manager who did not meet the
minimum years of experience required in the RFP. In addition, SCR proposed installing “Opti-Run,” a
software designed to assist with creating driver schedules to match service demands. The Access-aRide Division purchased this software several years ago, thereby making the SCR proposal less
advantageous to RTD.
A key strength of the First Transit proposal was the proposed management team. Under this team’s
leadership, the Access-a-Ride Call Center consistently meets RTD expectations. The team is
experienced in providing Call Center service for RTD and there will be no need for startup and,
consequently, no disruption of service when transitioning to the new contract. First Transit proposed
“Info Manager” software designed to monitor system performance and allows staff to make necessary
adjustments. In addition, First Transit proposed to provide up to 50 Mobile Data Tablets for use in the
anticipated non-dedicated vehicle component of the Access-a-Ride program.

RECOMMENDATION

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

It is the recommendation of staff that First Transit be awarded the Access-a-Ride Call Center Contract
for three years with two one-year options for an amount not to exceed $11,074,125. This proposal
represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 13-DH-026, to provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended action is based upon the evaluation committee’s determination that the recommended
firm’s proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to the RFP
issued by the District. This determination is based upon the evaluation of technical and price issues
consistent with the evaluative criteria established by RTD and communicated in the RFP document.
An RTD internal financial analysis indicated that the estimated cost to provide these services would be
higher than the prices offered by the recommended service provider. The estimated cost was based on
current and projected wage rates and other operating expenses based on RTD’s current experience
operating the Telephone Information Center (TIC).
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are included in the adopted 2013
amended budget and in the 2014 requested budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and
therefore, there is no start-up cost impact on the 2013 budget. Funds will be requested in future
budgets for the provision of service in future years.
ALTERNATIVES:
1)
Award the contract to First Transit, Inc., as recommended
2)
Award the contract to MTM, the second ranked proposer. This is not recommended as it
does not reflect the outcome of the evaluation team’s evaluation process and RTD’s
procurement process.
3)
Resolicit the RFP. This is not recommended as the proposal process has resulted in a
responsive and responsible proposal and is less expensive than the RTD internal cost
estimate (ICE).

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor
Articulated Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to New Flyer of America Inc. for the
purchase of 52 – 60’ low-floor articulated buses and associated spare components in the amount not to
exceed $34,636,614, with an option to purchase up to 140 additional articulated buses over a five year
period.

BACKGROUND
RTD’s existing 9100 Series NABI articulated buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years. The
buses are 13 years old and have accumulated on average 380,000 miles of stop-and-go transit service.
Their structures have experienced heavy damage due to rust, corrosion and fatigue. They have become
unreliable and require intensive maintenance to keep them in service. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) calls for the replacement of the 9100 Series buses over the next three years, 40 buses in 2013,
40 buses in 2014 and 18 buses in 2015.
On May 28, 2013, the Board of Directors approved the Downtown Denver (18th/19th Street) Circulator
service plan. Twelve (12) of the requested New Flyer articulated buses will be expansion buses to be
used for this service. This initial order includes forty (40) buses to replace forty (40) existing 13-year old
2000 Model Year NABI buses, and twelve (12) expansion buses to be used for the new Downtown
Denver (18th/19th Street) Circulator bus service.
The Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on February 27, 2013 for the procurement of articulated
buses. The RFP solicited proposals that offer buses in different power configurations: clean diesel, CNG,
hybrid electric and battery electric. Proposals were received on May 17, 2013.

DISCUSSION
Proposals were received from four companies: New Flyer, Nova Bus, North American Bus Industries
(NABI) and BYD Motors.
The proposers submitted their costs as follows.

New Flyer

Clean Diesel
Bus
$637,000

CNG Bus
$698,519

Hybrid Bus
$810,974 (Series Hybrid)
$846,706 (Parallel Hybrid)

Electric Bus
No Bid

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.2

NABI
Nova Bus
BYD

$653,019
$716,000
No Bid

$708,347
No Bid
No Bid

$865,110
$985,200
No Bid

No Bid
No Bid
$1,235,000

Staff has performed an in-depth life cycle cost analysis of the different power configurations to
determine the most cost effective and efficient propulsion power system for the new buses.
The hybrid buses are $173,974 (for the series hybrid) or $209,706 (for the parallel hybrid) higher in unit
cost than the diesel buses. Accordingly, RTD would only be able to purchase thirty (30) to thirty-one
(31) hybrid buses for the available budget instead of the forty (40) replacement vehicles desired.
Based on RTD’s experience of 20% better fuel economy for the hybrid buses and its current diesel fuel
purchase price, it would take between 34 and 41 years for the return on investment (ROI) on the hybrid
buses. This far exceeds the twelve (12) year useful life of the vehicle. Accordingly, hybrid vehicles were
eliminated from further consideration.
Current generation electric buses are running on batteries exclusively. They are twice the unit cost of
the diesel buses. They are still experiencing issues such as short operating range – only 155 miles
between battery charges and less than half of RTD normal operating range requirement of 400 miles,
and heavy bus weight. Accordingly, the current electric vehicles were eliminated from further
consideration.
The CNG buses are $61,519 higher in unit cost than the diesel buses. Currently, CNG fuel is about 50%
lower in cost per diesel gallon equivalent than diesel fuel. In order to convert to CNG operations, RTD
must also invest in new CNG stations and safety modifications of existing maintenance and parking
facilities. The CNG stations required for fueling CNG vehicles at two RTD divisions, Platte and East
Metro, are estimated to cost upward of $3,540,000 per each division. The facility modifications to these
two divisions alone to bring them into compliance with fire codes for safe operations of CNG fuel are
estimated to cost up to $8.8 Million for Platte and $12.3 Million for East Metro. The total facility
upgrades for the two divisions are estimated to result in a $28.1 million investment. This analysis does
not include RTD’s Boulder operating division nor any of the four (4) private contractor operating
divisions.
The CNG analysis by staff indicates:






Savings in CNG fuel cost will be more than offset by the higher cost of bus purchase and
upgrading the maintenance and parking facilities.
Prices of natural gas and diesel fuel have been historically extremely volatile. There is no
guarantee that the current pricing advantage of natural gas over diesel fuel will continue into the
future.
There are no significant air quality impacts to convert from diesel to CNG operations. Both new
clean diesel and new CNG buses have significantly lower emissions than the older buses they
replace. The emissions of new clean diesel and CNG buses are considered to be the same.
The CNG facility upgrade will take at least two years to implement. Going with CNG buses will
delay the bus procurement process at least two years.
In the past CNG buses showed higher maintenance costs than diesel buses. However, in the last
several years, CNG engine technology has improved. Even though CNG buses require certain new

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.2






costs for CNG related maintenance such as CNG engine sparkplug replacement and high pressure
fuel system maintenance, staff has assumed CNG and diesel maintenance costs to be equivalent.
The reliability and durability of CNG engines are still questionable at high altitude and cold
weather conditions, coupled with the usage of low energy natural gas available in Denver metro
area.
High altitude conditions cause loss of engine power and hotter engine operating
temperature. Cold weather causes CNG engine starting problems. Denver’s natural gas has lower
energy content than the rest of the country. Low energy gas causes engine operating issues.
CNG is a combustible gas at very high pressure (3,600 pounds per square inch of pressure).
Safety and security for the operation of CNG are of concern.
The high cost CNG stations and associated facility upgrades may become obsolete in 12 years at
the end of life of the buses under this procurement. Electric vehicle technology appears to be the
preferred technology of the future. A number of electric buses are currently in production or
under demonstration by bus manufacturers. As electric bus technology is still in its infancy, it
currently has issues such as high purchase cost and low operating range. In the upcoming years,
it is expected that the technology will advance and production processes will improve, allowing
the bus cost to come down and the operating range to increase.

There are risks that the very large investment in CNG facility upgrades and CNG buses may not pay off;
that the savings on CNG fuel may not be realized due to commodity price fluctuations; that the CNG
technology may become obsolete to better engine technologies currently being demonstrated such as
electric vehicles; and that CNG operational difficulties may be experienced under RTD’s high altitude,
cold climate and low energy natural gas usage. Based on the above considerations, staff has
recommended that RTD stay with clean diesel technology as a good public policy.
The proposals were also rated according to their proposed costs and company technical ability.
New Flyer submitted the highest rated proposal in both costs and technical ability. New Flyer’s proposal
is the most responsive, responsible, lowest cost and best value proposal. New Flyer meets and exceeds
RTD technical specification requirements. New Flyer has the experience and qualification in the
manufacture of transit buses, being the largest and financially stable manufacturer in North America.
New Flyer offered a lifetime warranty against bus structure corrosion damage. New Flyer proposed a
delivery schedule that meets the implementation timeline for the Downtown Denver (18th/19th Street)
Circulator service.
The articulated buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance. Their
clean diesel engines will meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up to 90%
from the level of the existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger count
system and a security digital camera system. The articulated buses for the base transit service will have
two passenger doors and 57 passenger seats. The articulated buses for the Downtown Denver
(18th/19th Street) Circulator service will have three passenger doors and 46 passenger seats. In addition,
the circulator buses will have the exterior BRT package. They will have a progressive and modern look
with aerodynamic and streamlined appearance.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This current contract is for the purchase of 52 articulated buses and associated spare components in the
amount not to exceed $34,636,614. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the
District’s 2013 Adopted Budget.

Packet Pg. 8

1.B.2

The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 140 additional buses over a five year period.
Pricing for additional option buses will be based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price
adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
Additional buses to be purchased from the options will require separate
authorizations from the RTD Board of Directors.

DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, New Flyer has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its
DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

To authorize the General Manager to award a contract to New Flyer for the purchase of 52diesel articulated buses and associated spare components. This is the recommended
alternative.

2.

Award the contract to New Flyer for 52 CNG articulated buses.
This is not the
recommended action as it would delay the bus purchase at least two years due to the long
process to construct the CNG fuel stations and modify the maintenance and parking
facilities. CNG requires higher bus purchase costs and multi-million dollar facility costs,
which will offset the CNG fuel savings. There are risks of operational difficulty for CNG
buses in RTD’s high altitude and cold weather conditions, in addition to the availability of
only low energy natural gas in Denver metro area. In addition, no funding has been identified
to finance the necessary capital improvements.

3.

Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it
would result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost
of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 8, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses
for access-a-Ride Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to Supreme Bus for the
purchase of up to 103 new cutaway buses for the access-a-Ride service in the amount not to exceed
$5,228,589, with an option to purchase up to 350 additional cutaway buses over a five year period.

BACKGROUND

RTD uses the cutaway buses for its access-a-Ride service. The buses are based on the cutaway van
chassis and have an average service life of about 5 years. The new buses will replace existing buses
that are five, six, and seven years old, and have reached the end of their service life. The Invitation for
Bid (IFB) for the bus procurement was issued on June 4, 2013. Sealed bids were received on August 6,
2013.

DISCUSSION
Four companies submitted their bids, Supreme Bus, Intermountain Coach, Colorado West and Arizona
Bus Sales. The bidders submitted their costs as follows.

Supreme Bus
Intermountain Coach
Colorado West
Arizona Bus Sales

Bid Price
$50,763
$51,049
$52,167
$52,452

Supreme Bus was found to be the most responsive, responsible low bidder after all submittals and
options had been evaluated.
The new cutaway buses will be based on the Ford E-350 chassis. They will be fully ADA compliant.
They will be equipped with a wheelchair lift and wheelchair tie-down equipment for two wheelchairs.
In addition, they will be equipped with a security camera system.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 10

1.B.3

This contract is for the purchase of 103 cutaway buses in the amount not to exceed $5,228,589. The
funding for this contract is approved and available in the District’s 2013 Adopted Budget.
The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 350 additional buses over a five year period.
Pricing for additional option buses will be based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price
adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
Additional buses to be purchased from the options will require separate
authorizations from the RTD Board of Directors.

DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Supreme Bus has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of
its DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

Authorize the General Manager to award the contract to Supreme Bus for the purchase of
103 cutaway buses to be used for the access-a-Ride service. This is the recommended
alternative.

2.

Award the contract to Intermountain Coach, the second lowest bidder. This is not the
recommended action as it would contradict with RTD’s procurement practice.

3.

Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit bids. This is not desirable as it would
result in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 25, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review

Information

RECOMMENDED ACTION
No Board action is required. This report provides information regarding the results of an independent
expert review of the Access-a-Ride Driver Training provided by our ADA service contractors; Global
Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, MV Transportation, and Via Mobility Services.
BACKGROUND
In 2011 RTD hired KFH Group, an expert consultant qualified in and experienced with Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) paratransit service and otherwise unaffiliated with RTD, to review, audit and
prepare a written report on the training programs of each of our Access-a-Ride contractors to ensure
that all vehicle operators were being trained to proficiency in passenger assistance as required by the
ADA and the RTD Service Contract. In addition, the results of the review would assist staff in the
preparations of the updated Scope of Work for the new Access-a-Ride Service RFP scheduled for release
in July 2013. The focus of the review was on the following areas:
1. Passenger Assistance (PASS) Training – ensuring that vehicle operators are trained to proficiency in
all areas related to passenger assistance and sensitivity and that the vehicle operator will be prepared to
secure and assist with (as needed) all types of mobility aids.
2. A review of the materials used for other components of the operator training program that relate to
passenger safety – which included a “desk” review of defensive driving programs, emergency
procedures, and any other safety related training.
DISCUSSION
As cited in the report submitted by KFH Group (copy attached), each Access-a-Ride contractor conducts
their own training program using their own materials as well as the standard PASS training module. All
of the contractors trained operators to proficiency and provided the basic two-to-three week training
program that relies to a large extent on behind-the-wheel training. The report did cite that some of the
contractors had better training programs than others based on the performance of trainers.
The PASS training was used by each of the contractors, however, the quality of the training varied
based on the trainer’s ability to communicate and use a variety of media to make the appropriate points.
Some trainers were more effective than others which KFH Group concluded had an impact on training to
proficiency.
No shortcomings were noted by KFH Group as all of the contractors were meeting the minimum
requirements for training vehicle operators to proficiency regarding safety and passenger assistance, and
therefore no action plan to bring RTD into compliance with the ADA was required or recommended.
However, KFH Group did note that some contractors were doing a better job on training than others.

Packet Pg. 12

1.C.1

While all contractors have been and continue to be in compliance with the ADA and contractual
requirements, the differing levels of competence could produce different levels of quality and safety. It
was recommended that training be consolidated through one professional entity. In this scenario one
vendor or RTD itself could be responsible for, at a minimum, the PASS training and perhaps all other
training with the exception of a contractor’s corporate policies and other training specific to the
contractor.
As part of our oversight of the Access-a-Ride program, the Paratransit Services staff routinely reviews
private contractor training programs in order to confirm that the topics covered meet the requirements of
their respective contracts with RTD. Based on the report submitted by the KFH Group and staff
recommendation, the following action items have been implemented in order to improve the overall
training programs and services offered to our passengers:







Creation of a new, full-time position within RTD’s Paratransit Services Group; a Paratransit
Safety and Training Compliance Officer. This position is responsible for oversight and
management of the safety and training programs for RTD’s paratransit contractors.
Enhanced safety policies on wheelchair securement and lift operation. RTD is now
requiring all paratransit operators be certified as being trained in this area.
Increased communication about safety and customer service training between RTD and
the paratransit contractors through monthly meetings conducted by the RTD Paratransit
Safety and Training Compliance Officer.
Additional oversight of the paratransit contractors by RTD staff, including on-street
observations and improved and increased classroom observations.
Inclusion of additional safety equipment in new-vehicle purchases which includes lift belts
and on-board cameras.
Implementation of an approval process for all paratransit contractor trainers by RTD.

Based on the recommendations made in the KFH report, the RTD Paratransit Services staff spent several
months reviewing the possibility of 1) contracting out the PASS portion of training to one entity or 2)
bringing the PASS portion of training in house to RTD.
As VIA Mobility was the company recommended by KFH to take on the consolidated PASS training, the
staff analysis was based on the VIA facility and a rough estimate of cost provided by VIA. The option
of contracting out PASS training to one entity was rejected due to the logistical challenges and the
requirement that training take place at the VIA facility in Boulder and costs of such a proposal. Although
the KFH report indicated that consolidated training would reduce training costs, just the opposite is true.
Each paratransit contractor would still be required to have trainers on staff to handle the other non-PASS
related training requirements. Contracting out the PASS training to one entity would end up costing the
paratransit contractors and RTD more. Additional concerns were raised regarding accountability and
who would be held responsible if an operator failed to perform PASS related functions appropriately.
A task force comprised of staff from the Access-a-Ride and RTD Training Departments explored the
feasibility of having RTD Training provide the PASS training for all Access-a-Ride operator trainees.
Individuals from RTD Training and RTD Paratransit Services attended actual driver training classes taught
by VIA Mobility in Boulder. Their primary role was to determine how they could replicate the training
environment at RTD and facilitate training that would be both economically feasible and within the

Packet Pg. 13

1.C.1

constraints of limited classroom space. The RTD Training staff was comfortable that RTD trainers could
handle the PASS training. However, there were problems with regard to an available training space.
When considering training in one location for the sake of consistency, it was noted that with a program
as large as Access-a-Ride, RTD would need to hire several additional trainers which would yield the
same results as having multiple trainers at our various contractor facilities. It has already been
established that the core training materials are identical. The next steps, which have already begun,
include reinforcing the importance of making sure that students retain the materials presented and to
present the materials in such a fashion as to ensure that outcome. To that end, RTD staff meets
regularly with training managers in order facilitate a platform of consistency. The meetings are an
opportunity for trainers to learn from one another and offer them access to the same relevant
information.
Based on the task force’s review of current practices and weighing the suggested changes, their
recommendation is to continue having the paratransit contractors train their own drivers and for RTD to
enhance overall safety and training oversight. RTD contracts with companies for the purpose of
providing paratransit services and fully expects that these companies train their respective operators
accordingly. The overall changes made to compliance oversight have resulted in an improved classroom
experience for the trainee. The improved experience for the trainee has resulted in better performance
on the road. The better performance on the road has translated into fewer “training” related complaints
received by RTD.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no recommendation for Board action or resolution. Had the KFH Group identified any areas of
noncompliance with the ADA, RTD would have developed an action plan to bring RTD into compliance,
and a Board resolution if warranted. This report is for information only.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact as there is no change to current procedure following enhancements as
outlined above in response to the KFH Group report. Operator training costs are included in the contract
pricing currently in effect for the paratransit contractors.
ATTACHMENTS:


Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 14

Review of Regional Transportation District (RTD)
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Paratransit Training

The RTD has requested consultant assistance to review the training programs of
each of its contractors to ensure that all vehicle operators are trained to proficiency in
passenger assistance as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The
focus of this effort will be on the following:
1. Passenger Assistance Training – ensuring that vehicle operators are trained to
proficiency in all areas related to passenger assistance and that the vehicle
operator will be prepared for virtually all types of mobility aids. The
consultants were requested to observe these sessions.
2. A review of materials of other components of the training program that relate
to passenger safety – this includes a “desk” review of defensive driver
programs, emergency procedures, and any other safety related training. This
included an interview with training staff and a review of the material
presented.
The first part of this effort will attempt to define the term, “Train to proficiency,
followed by a review of safety training materials of each of the four contractors,
followed by our review of their Passenger Assistance training program.

ADA COMPLEMENTARY PARATRANSIT REGULATIONS AND
GUIDANCE
ADA paratransit regulations leave virtually all of the decisions in regard to
training, in the hands of the local transit system. There is considerable leeway in the
regulations for local decision-making in all areas of operation and management of the
service. Nowhere is this more evident than in training, where the regulations simply
call for “training to proficiency.”

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

1
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Each public or private entity which operates a fixed route or demand responsive system shall
ensure that personnel are trained to proficiency, as appropriate to their duties, so that they
operate vehicles and equipment safely and properly assist and treat individuals with disabilities
who use the service in a respectful and courteous way, with appropriate attention to the
difference among individuals with disabilities.
Guidance from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)1 further indicates that
there are many approaches to passenger assistance. Commentary contained in
Appendix D to Part 37 related to Section 37.165 of the DOT’s ADA regulations states
that the regulatory language is a mandate to transit personnel to use their “best efforts”
to secure any mobility device that meets the regulatory definition of a common mobility
device.
Further, there are no specific industry standards (other than on an ad hoc basis)
and there is no sanctioning body. Stated in the Appendix D to Part 37—Construction
and Interpretation of Provisions of 49 CFR Part 37,
The Department is not requiring a specific course of training or the submission of a training
plan for DOT approval. However, every employee of a transportation provider who is involved
with service to persons with disabilities must have been trained so that he or she knows what
needs to be done to provide the service in the right way.
While there are no specific industry standards, there are common practices and
generally accepted procedures common to virtually all large urban paratransit systems.
The terms “trained to proficiency” and “best efforts” imply the need for the following:









Recognized Passenger Assistance course – often modified by local system
At least one week of behind the wheel training
A skilled and knowledgeable trainer
Documentation of the training
Appropriate well maintained vehicle lifts and securement equipment
Refresher training
Safety memos
Appropriate monitoring of service by RTD

1

Appendix D to Part 37—Construction and Interpretation of Provisions of 49 CFR Part 37, discusses this
issue in the commentary, getting to the intent of the regulations.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

2
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) ADA regulations at 49 CFR §
37.173 states:

In the area of service monitoring, there is even less guidance from FTA, other
than the understanding that the local transit system is responsible for all actions and
must meet the requirements of the ADA regulations. Therefore it is incumbent on any
transit system to monitor its service.
Training to Proficiency
Using the criteria listed above, the RTD is following the letter and spirit of ADA.
RTD and its subcontractors have policies, procedures, training programs, and
monitoring of service that is well within generally accepted practices among large
urban transit systems as interpreted by this expert witness. RTD management does due
diligence in its monitoring of training for each of its operators.
A.

B.

C.
D.
E.

RTD’s Lift and mobility device securement training programs improve upon
training conducted by the Community Transportation Association of America
and the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies. 2
The length of the passenger assistance training (use of the lift and securement
of mobility devices) is within the norm of generally accepted training
programs, using the most up-to-date methods available.
The length of the behind-the-wheel training is within the generally accepted
practices in the industry.
RTD has an internal manual that provides guidance in all monitoring
activities. There is staff specifically assigned to monitoring the contractors.
RTD supplies vehicles, lifts and securement systems that meet the
requirements of ADA

REVIEW OF OVERALL TRAINING
Each operator conducts their own training program using their own materials as
well as standard PASS training. This first task called for a review of the overall
program and materials. Each uses an appropriate defensive driving program and
emergency procedures. It should be noted however, that VIA’s emergency procedures
training material is considerably more comprehensive than the other contractors.

2 The Community Transportation Association (CTAA) Passenger Assistance Training program is

recognized as a good comprehensive approach to passenger assistance. CASTA also conducts training
using the same trainer that conducts CTAA training

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

3
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Coach conducts 19 days of training at 8 hours each class for a total of 152 hours.
The material is gathered from a variety of sources and placed together in the New Hire
Training Manual, which is often simply photocopied from other materials. In some
cases prepackaged National Transit Institute (NTI) material is used. This includes
terrorism training and workplace safety. The defensive driving class is made up of
Coach material and a variety of other sources.
Other material related to a variety of conditions was gathered from other
websites. There were different procedures in different sections. For example – different
sets of emergency procedures are in two different documents given to the auditor.
There is also a behind the wheel handbook.
MV
MV presented a complete, concise training Study Guide as well as an MV
Employee Handbook, both professionally bound. The Employee Handbook is
company specific and the study guide includes a series of DVDs for NTI warning signs,
defensive driving, and other areas. This is a good set of manuals and guides for
prospective vehicle operators.
This two week training class includes at least one week of behind the wheel
training.
VIA
VIA has a very comprehensive training program above the minimum
requirements and well above typical industry standards. The training is 16 days (over
three weeks) at 10 hours each day for a total of 160 hours of training. If a driver is not
ready additional hours will be dedicated to that individual.
Additional safety related training include the National Safety Council’s defensive
driving class and a four hour review of company safety policy. Approximately 10 – 15
hours is dedicated to wheelchair securement and other passenger assistance practice
over and above the two day PASS class. Each driver is given a VIA Mobility Services Bus
Operator’s Manual and it is reviewed as well.
Overall their material and training programs are concise and conducted by
skilled and very experienced trainers. Ultimately the quality of the training is the
responsibility of the trainers and their managers. VIA gets very high marks for
knowledge, skills, experience, and their ability to impart this knowledge. The reliance
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

4
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Coach

1.C.1.a

VIA and its safety

Global Transportation
Global provided a packet of information with a number of loose policy
statements and certification forms. The National Safety Council Defensive Driving
Course is used. There is a Paratransit Driver Training Manual, which has a wide range
of information in no particular order. It appears that the information is there, just not in
an order one might expect. Global conducts two weeks of training, including one week
behind the wheel.

PASASENGER ASSISTANCE TRAINING
Global Transportation
Course Material
Global uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
trainee receives one. The trainer used a lot of anecdotal experiences and supplemental
stories to go along with training material. Several additional videos on disabilities were
used and a demonstration of the bloodborne pathogen kit was used to supplement the
training.
Beyond the basic handouts, the Global PASS training included the following
materials:







Drivers Manifest
Wheelchair and Lift Procedure Handout
Global and RTD Policy Statements
Worksheets and tests for each topic
Stroke Identification Handout
Dialysis Information Sheet

Videos included:





A disability video developed by Brenda with a chapter devoted to many
disabilities RTD operators will encounter
Alzheimer’s Disease (by Jacob 2)
The 10 Commandments of Communication with People with Disabilities
The CTAA Emergency Evacuation Video

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

5
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

is on these staff with appropriate videos and other material.
department are very professional.

1.C.1.a

A blood borne pathogen video

Global devoted 10-30 minutes per section of the PASS book (some longer). For
almost every section there were verbal, physical and written tests to ensure each
participant’s understanding of the training. During the PASS training, 4.5 hours were
spent on hands-on wheelchair securement and lift operations. Each participant secured
two types of manual wheelchairs, an electric chair, and a scooter. The Global trainer
would not end the session until she was convinced that the students were comfortable
with securement and lift operations. The Global trainer stressed securement and had
very detailed instructions for the entire process, including the exact position the QStraint device should be in the floor mount. All Global participants were instructed and
participated in hands-on guiding for the visually impaired. Each also was blindfolded.
Emphasis was placed on not only directional and elevation change, but changes in
surfaces.
Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
During the PASS training there is 4.5 hours spent on this section alone and each
student was active the entire time. The trainer informed me that during the road
training section securement and lift operations would be covered in depth again. In
addition, each student was a guide and was also blindfolded and guided on to the lift
during the PASS training.
For Global, the basic principles are emphasized regarding tie down positioning
and angles, proper wheelchair positioning and how much a chair should move. Four
types of chairs were used and it was noted that if a unique chair seems too difficult, the
driver should call dispatch and request the safety manager. The trainees were required
to tie each of the four types of chairs down until they got it done correctly at least twice.
The trainer made a particular point in stressing holding the chair while on the
lift. If participants forgot, the trainer would make them start the process over. Due to
the new Braun lifts, the trainer instructed the participants to clearly instruct the
passengers to hold on to the railing and leave their breaks engaged, then hurry onto the
bus to pull them in. This is updated from the CTAA PASS book, which does not cover
procedures using the new Braun lifts.
Course Summary
Strengths


Use of experiential and anecdotal lessons to supplement the PASS book.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

6
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)









Limited use of videos for supplemental purposes only. Brenda was the
conveyer of all critical information and videos were used to help make a
point. Videos were not used as stand-alone training.
The Global trainer is a clear and effective communicator and a savvy trainer.
She reads the students well and will spend extra time on subjects when the
students don’t fully understand. She knows the material backwards and
forwards.
Adapting to new procedures as needed.

Weaknesses


For Global, no schedule or syllabus was given.
conducive to training.

The facility was not

Instructor
The Global trainer is a true expert and has excellent command of the material.
She doesn’t have to spend much time reading the material. She provided extensive
anecdotal experiences to highlight the importance of the lessons. She is an excellent and
effective communicator. She kept the attention of everybody in the room. Even though
the PASS book is the primary training tool, the trainer could have taught the course
without it. She had at least one anecdote for every section covered. She only uses
videos as a supplement to hands-on or personal training.
The Global trainer is a professional trainer. She was consistently engaging
participants. She conducted many hands-on demonstrations (assisting people out of the
bus seat, using the pathogen kit, etc.). She was constantly asking questions to the
trainees and also insisted on them reading a few paragraphs in each section of the PASS
book.
The Global trainer has all participants read from the PASS book. She consistently
asks “Does everybody understand? Any Questions?” For every section she would put
participants on the spot and required participation.
Trainees
The trainees at the Global PASS session were alert and attentive. The trainer
wouldn’t let participants daydream and would call out (playfully) people for yawing.
The participants were hesitant to participate during the morning of the first day, but
became much more comfortable as time progressed.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

7
Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

At the beginning of the second day of the Global PASS training there was a
comprehensive review of everything covered in Day 1. Participants showed good
understanding of the major concepts and remembered most of the details when
prodded. The trainer also assigned homework on disabilities in which the trainees
presented to the class. Also, the trainer hammered, with repetition, many main
themes/procedures into the heads of the trainees, including “Don’t Assume. When in
doubt, call dispatch. File an incident report when anything out of the norm happens.
Offer assistance (don’t give it without permission). Be patient.” All Global trainees had
“some” level of confidence. All were well versed in the major issues and procedures.
Facilities and Equipment
The entire Global facility was not conducive to training. The computer didn’t
work for many of the DVD’s. The facility is dilapidated and dirty. The trainer is also
the safety manager and as a result there were several interruptions by drivers during
the training session. There were also noisy distractions coming from the garage.
Training equipment included 4 wheelchairs (2 manual, 1 electric and 1 scooter),
white canes and a walker.
MV Transportation
Course Material
MV uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
participant is given one. No course schedule is given to the trainees. The MV trainer
went through the book very rapidly, with little to no use of anecdotal lessons, examples,
or videos. Day 2 started on p. 99 and skipped 20 pages on lift and securement
procedures. There were no substantive materials used other that the PASS book and
the RTD handbook.
The trainer basically read through the book with little expansion on any of the
material. Very few questions were asked by or of the trainer. The trainer completed
2/3 of the sections by the end of Day 1.
During the PASS phase of MV driver training there is about two hours of
securement training. They spend one full day (8 hrs) on securement before they can
become a driver. MV has 12 chairs that they use of varying typologies, but only manual
chairs were used during the PASS training. The MV trainees were much more
comfortable with the Q-Straint devices, but there was a significant drop off in attention
to detail compared to the Global training.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

8
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

All MV participants were guides and guided with a blindfold. Errors like not
mentioning if the steps were up or down, change in surfaces, or properly supporting
the customer were not corrected during the training. Many of the drivers watching the
training from a distance were noting that the trainees were not doing the activity
correctly, but the trainer was not correcting the mistakes.
Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
Multiple wheelchair typologies were not used during the PASS training but
multiple types of chairs are covered on the securement training day. Holding the chair
on the lift was instructed but not “stressed” during the MV training. Again, the training
regarding “never leave a customer on the lift” (CTAA PASS Handbook), was not
followed because of the new Braun lifts with a steep angle going into the bus. It is
difficult to assess the wheelchair securement training having not seen it to the full
extent, but the attention to detail regarding Q-Straint placement and passenger
sensitivity during lift operation and securement was below the standard that Global
Transportation taught to.
Course Summary
Strengths


The main strength of the MV driver training program is the full day
dedicated to wheelchair securement and lift operation, beyond what is
covered in the PASS training.

Weaknesses









No mention of punitive results for major violations of policy
Limited direct interaction between trainees and trainers.
No introductions. Trainees don’t know or show comfort with one another.
All subjects are treated with the same weight. No emphasis on major safety
issues.
Uses PASS methods and no emphasis on how this information integrates
with MV/RTD.
Safety is the only focus and little attention is given to sensitivity.
Two students fell asleep during the training and were not woken up.
Employed descriptors like “blind, deaf and disabled.”

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

9
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

A video on emergency evacuation of cut-away busses was used as a stand-alone
training tool for the class. It was the only video used in the PASS training and there
was no follow up discussion regarding the video’s content.

1.C.1.a

Most of the MV PASS training is a simple reading of the PASS Handbook. The
only anecdotal examples given were hypothetical and there were little real world
examples. The trainer knew where to access the information and resources but did not
have the ability to answer many questions. Another difference between Global and MV
was that the lack of comprehensiveness in MV training, which lead to a lot of “what if”
questions from the trainees. Most of these questions were covered in the Global PASS
sessions but not in the MV training.
The MV trainer was not a great communicator. She did not hold the trainees
attention well (2 students fell asleep). The MV students were not particularly engaged.
They were not asked many questions or directly engaged in the training outside of the
hands on portion. Even during the hands on portion the trainer didn’t correct mistakes
made by the students during the training. The training had a “going through the
motions” feel to it.
The MV program has no nuances. All information covered was outlined in the
CTAA PASS Handbook. There was no substantive conversation beyond what is
covered in the book.
Trainees
The MV trainees were not attentive at all. One trainee didn’t pay attention
throughout the session. The three others were tired (two of which fell asleep). As time
progressed the participants became slightly more engaged.
The MV students seemed comfortable with wheelchair securement, likely due to
the fact that they had already spent a full day on wheelchair securement. However,
attention to the details including where the tie downs were located in the floor and on
the device were not as specific as with the Global training.
They were less confident when it came to the sensitivity portion of the training.
Throughout the training the participants (and trainer) used the improper descriptor for
people with disabilities (handicapped, disabled, blind, deaf, etc.). The portions of the
training that were less understood by the trainees were procedural measures outlined
by the ADA. The trainees seemed to think there was flexibility in trip denials for
difficult passengers with cognitive disabilities or people with service animals (3 of the 4
participants were afraid of dogs). It was not clear to the trainees that ADA paratransit
vehicle operators face a variety of difficult situations that require extreme patience, and
that facing these challenges are inevitable.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

10
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Instructor

1.C.1.a

The MV training facility was adequate for four trainees. With an additional
observer (six people total) the room was too cramped. The training room is in the
administrative offices and was very noisy in the morning. The computer did not work
for showing some of the training videos.
For the MV PASS training there were only two manual wheelchairs used, but
MV has 12 wheelchairs of varying typologies they use for securement training beyond
the PASS lessons. MV also uses canes, walkers, and blindfolds for the PASS training.

CUSA Transit Services
CUSA was not prepared for this training. They had a new trainer who was not
yet up to speed and had not been certified. The class held was simply a
demonstration/simulation of training. The trainer is an experienced transit manager,
but is new to this kind of training. He was to be trained as a PASS trainer in July 2012.
Course Material
The new hiring training manual is a large document that details the activities for
each of the 14 days of training. This manual puts together a wide variety of training
material from a variety of sources. While PASS training is used, the material in the
manual was different from the PASS training. There was no support material available
nor any videos or examples/anecdotes. The instructor simply read through the PASS
training. The reading was completed in one day. This was not indicative of how
training should be conducted.
Wheelchair Lift and Securement
Four types of wheelchairs were available for practice. The practice consisted of
going through the motions with a supervisor and the auditor. The auditor could not get
a good sense as to the actual training. The New Hire Manual states that there is a day
and one half for wheelchair lift and securement.
Course Summary
Strengths


The COACH PASS training at the time of the review did not exist as a new
trainer was hired and would wait almost four months before being certified
as a PASS trainer.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

11
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Facilities and Equipment

1.C.1.a





There was no instructor available. It was not clear what materials would be
used to supplement the PASS handbook as the new training manager had not
yet researched that issue.
The trainer has subsequently informed us that they used a certified trainer
(Misty Martinez) and conducted a full two days of training complete with
videos. In addition, there are an additional 8 – 10 hours of hands on securing
and assistance for other passengers.

Instructor
Mr. Doster stated that he will be certified as a trainer by mid July. While we
anticipate that he will do a good job, based on his transit experience, RTD safety staff
should observe his class in the near future.
Trainees
There were no trainees at this simulated training.
Facilities and Equipment
The facility was in a separate trainer on-site. It was adequate. Training
equipment included four wheelchairs (two manual, 1 electric and 1 scooter), white
canes and a walker.
VIA
Course Material
VIA uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
trainee receives one. There were five students that sat through two days of PASS
training. The trainer used a lot of actual experiences and supplemental stories to go
along with training material. Several additional videos on disabilities were used and a
demonstration of the blood borne pathogen kit was used to supplement the training.
The training was well paced and was supplemented by a variety of videos, some
off the shelf while others included footage of actual experiences at VIA. For almost
every section there were written tests to ensure participants understanding. During the
PASS training wheelchair securement was reviewed and a variety of wheelchairs and
scooters were demonstrated. VIA devotes two full days to wheelchair securement,
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

12
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Weaknesses

1.C.1.a

Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
During the PASS training there is two hours spent on wheelchair securement and
hands on passenger assistance. The trainer informed me that during the road training
section hands on securement and lift operations would be covered in depth for two
days. In addition, each student was a guide and was also blindfolded and guided on to
the lift during the PASS training.
The trainer made a particular point in stressing holding the chair while on the
lift. Due to the new Braun lifts the trainer instructed the participants to clearly instruct
the passengers to hold on to the railing and leave their breaks engaged, then hurry onto
the bus to pull them in. This is not the same procedure covered in the CTAA PASS
book. In this case, the PASS manual is out of date and new procedures are appropriate
and have been adapted by VIA and the RTD.
Course Summary
Strengths








Highly professional organization
True culture of safety
Use of “Customer” over “client.”
Use of actual examples as lessons to supplement the PASS book.
Limited use of videos for supplemental purposes only. Videos were not used
as stand-alone training
The VIA trainer is a clear and effective communicator and an excellent trainer
Trainees were consistently engaged

Weaknesses


No real weaknesses.

Instructor
The instructor is excellent. He conducts training throughout Colorado and is a
recognized expert in paratransit training. He is well versed in the latest techniques and
in fact his safety department recently developed a set of straps designed to keep a
passenger on the lift. This strap is now being used across the country. The trainer
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

13
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

beyond the two hours that were spent on hands-on wheel chair securement and lift
operations. Each also was blindfolded. Emphasis was placed on not only directional
and elevation change, but changes in surfaces.

1.C.1.a

Trainees
The trainees at the VIA PASS session were alert, attentive, and consistently
engaged in the process. The trainees were fully engaged, worked together, and did not
drift at all. They all appeared to be properly motivated and looking forward to their
jobs.
Facilities and Equipment
The VIA facility is excellent for training purposes. It is in their new facility in a
quiet training conference room, isolated, yet there were a number of management staff
that came by to introduce themselves. All equipment worked properly.

SUMMARY OF ISSUES
Following is a summary of our findings at each training program:
1. Training to Proficiency – All contractors train operators to proficiency and
provide the basic two – three week training program that relies to a large
extent on behind the wheel training. However, some are doing a better job of
training than others. The issues here revolved around the overall training
program, the use of the PASS training, and the capabilities of the trainers.
a. Uneven Training Programs - Clearly some contractors have better training
programs than others. VIA and MV both had professional comprehensive
training programs, while VIA and Global had effective, professional
trainers.
b. Use of PASS – The PASS training (discussed below) is used by each of the
vendors, however, the quality of the training varied widely based on the
trainers ability to communicate and use a variety of media to make the
appropriate points. Two of the classes – VIA and Global made
appropriate use of other media, as well as an abundance of examples to
punctuate a point. These two had classes that went two full days with
additional hands on training on subsequent days. At least one additional
day is devoted to hands on practice. VIA has two days beyond the PASS
training. All state that they are doing the hands-on training.
c. Capabilities of Trainers - Without question, some trainers are more
effective than others and that will have a very significant impact on
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

14
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

relied on the experiences of VIA to use as examples. He used videos to emphasize a
point, but relied on his own skills to train the participants. He personalized the
training for the five participants and ensured that each understood the lessons.

training to proficiency. Our experience and the experience gained in this
review point to the importance of a professional trainer that can keep the
trainees motivated. Global and VIA had excellent trainers that kept the
trainees motivated. MV’s class featured a number of trainees that fell
asleep as the trainer simply read from the PASS training guide. The two
day class was over in less than two days.
2. PASS Training – PASS is the recognized training program in the industry. It
has a number of flaws in it, in that it has not kept up with the changes to
wheelchairs, doors, lifts, and the location of the lift. Specifically:
a. Changes to the new Braun lift are such that it is not practical to push a
person in a wheelchair into the vehicle while the operator is standing on
the ground holding the wheelchair. The edge of the lift is at too steep an
angle.
b. The lift doors are now positioned to prohibit a person of average height
from being able to reach a wheelchair that is inside the vehicle.
c. In addition, the positioning of the lift at the rear side of the vehicle (Many
RTD vehicles are configured as such) makes backing in (the preferred
approach) problematic as there is not enough room to maneuver.
While CTAA’s PASS has not kept up with these changes, RTD and VIA have
adapted their approach and the other contractors are following along, thus ensuring
that trainees get the latest information. The RTD monitoring and active involvement is
one of the strong points of the training program. VIA appears to lead the effort and in
fact have developed a simple strap system to assist in boarding and alighting.

RECOMMENDATIONS
While all of the contractors were meeting the minimum requirements for training
vehicle operators to proficiency regarding safety and passenger assistance, some are
clearly doing a better job than others (assuming Coach has put their new program in
place). VIA and Global stand out based on the quality of their trainers, while VIA and
MV stand out for their curriculum. RTD Safety/Training staff should monitor Coach’s
training program to ensure they are now conducting the appropriate training.
The lack of uniformity leads to different levels of vehicle operator competence,
often based on their company’s training. Further, the differing levels of competence can
produce different levels of quality and safety. It is recommended that training be
consolidated through one professional entity. In this scenario one vendor or RTD itself
will be responsible for at least PASS and perhaps all other training with the exception of
contractor’s corporate policies and other training specific to the contractor.
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

15
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

RTD can take on that role and ensure quality and up to date training. In fact, the
consultant believes that the best way to ensure high quality training is for RTD to take
on that role directly, giving it complete control over this critical aspect of training. This
will ensure the long term viability of the training program. VIA has also demonstrated
that it is very capable, based on their expertise in training, their training program, their
facility and dedication to the community. Consolidating training would serve a
number of purposes:
1. Uniform/High Quality – This is the best option for quality/uniform training
and service.
2. Lowest Cost – Contractors would not bear the cost of hiring trainers and their
hourly costs would be slightly reduced through elimination of duplicative
trainers and economies of scale.
3. Ability to monitor and change as needed – This approach would be the most
flexible to react to changes in the environment enabling RTD to react quickly
to the types of changes seen over the past few years.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

16
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and
Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project
Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Radio and CAD/AVL Replacement Project is replacing a 1993-era radio and dispatch system. The
radio system had to be replaced because of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules setting a
deadline to narrow the bandwidth of the then used radio channels. The old CAD/AVL system was tightly
integrated with the radio system. The cost of upgrading the old system approached the cost of
implementing a new system.
RTD joined a state-wide public safety radio network using new frequencies for channels, saving money
and improving coverage over an RTD owned and operated system. INIT, Innovations in Transportation
was selected as the CAD/AVL vendor, Motorola is the vendor for radios and Sprint for cellular data. To
mitigate the risk of not making the FCC deadline, RTD requested and was granted a one-year extension
to 2014. With the near final installation, RTD will soon fully meet its FCC obligations.
To date, the CAD/AVL and Radio Replacement Project completed the radio-only deployment for Light
Rail, Transit Police, Paratransit and non-revenue vehicles, including capacity improvement of 6 radio
tower sites, fiber and microwave networking and console installation. The paratransit vehicles were
upgraded to cellular data radios for the Access-a-Ride dispatch software. The Bus Dispatch Operations
Control Center was remodeled and all technology upgraded. About 98% of the fixed-route bus fleet has
been installed.
Factory Acceptance Testing, Factory System Integration Testing, Onsite Pre-revenue Onboard and
System Integration Testing and Radio system testing were all completed successfully. Mini-fleet testing
is mostly complete and should be finished in September. System Acceptance Testing will start after
passing mini-fleet testing. It is a minimum of 60 days to “burn in” the system and look for potential
concerns. Training of Operators, Dispatchers, Street Supervisors, System Administrators and Maintainers
is complete. An Operating and Maintenance Plan is developed and in place. Should significant problems
arise, a Disaster Recovery system is part of the overall design and fallback procedures to operate with
only the voice radio system are in place.
High severity problems are no longer an issue and the system appears to be stable. Installations are still
projecting to complete at the end of August. Buses out of service for repair may cause a slight
completion delay of approximately four vehicles into the first week of September. Below is a capsulated
summary that is followed by a list of current and upcoming activities.

Packet Pg. 31

1.C.2

MAJOR PROJECT ELEMENTS STATUS
Key

1

2

Element

Status

CAD/AVL Contract

High severity problems are no longer an issue and the system
appears to be stable.

Testing and Problem
Resolution

CAD/AVL
Installations

CAD/AVL Contract
3

4

 Because of the previous level-one problems, the 60-day mini-

Yellow


Yellow



fleet test will extend into mid-September. This item is shown
as yellow because of the delays in completing the testing.
977 of 1004 buses were installed as of 8/2/2013.
Projections still show August completion. Buses out of
service for repair may cause a slight completion delay of
approximately four vehicles into the first week of September.
17 of 21 Street Supervisor vehicles were installed as of
8/2/2013. This item is shown in yellow because of delays
from the original schedule objective.
The database for over 13,000 stop announcements is being
modified to shorten the announcements so that they will
finish before the next stop. Stop announcements will be
deployed in September, after all buses are installed and
testing of the revised data is complete. The ASA Advisory
Panel (ASAAP) will meet for a final review of the
announcement system prior to formal launch. ASAAP has
participated from inception and is comprised of
representatives of people with disabilities and the RTD
customer panel.

Automatic Stop
Announcements (ASA)

Green

CAD/AVL Contract
Database Interfaces

management interfaces are going through detailed
 Asset
testing. These interfaces are expected to go into service in
Green August.

UPCOMMING ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event

Time Frame

CAD/AVL Mini-fleet testing

7/2012 - 9/2013

Fixed-Route Bus Installations

7/2012 - 9/2013

Formal / Final CAD/AVL System Acceptance Testing

4th Quarter 2013

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 32

1.C.2

Packet Pg. 33

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 8, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

August 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Smart Card Project Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Smart Card Program continues to effectively gather rider taps for bus and train EcoPass and
CollegePass riders. During the month of July, 2013, 982K taps were recorded on bus and train
validators, an expected continued reduction from prior months due to a decrease in college pass use.
College Pass SmartCard use is expected to rise again as colleges begin their fall semesters in August.
The Smartcard Customer Service Center, (Operated under an RTD contract with Xerox by Celina, Inc.)
continues to distribute new cards upon request, issue replacement cards and answer riders’ questions as
they arise. A series of call center reports and metrics are also being produced.
A team of RTD Technical Support staff meets weekly to discuss reported issues with bus installations
and determine steps required to address issues that arise. An issue has been identified with the design
of the stanchions that hold the bus SMT validators and Xerox, the SMT vendor, has agreed to replace all
broken or deficient validator stanchions on each bus that has not been recently repaired.
Work on the installation of two additional platform validators at 16th/California and 18th/California has
been completed. Site surveys have been completed to determine the feasibility of installing three
additional platform validators at the Colfax and Auraria station and two validators at the 30th and
Downing station.
An update to the Fare Inspector software used to confirm that passengers have tapped their SmartCard
prior to boarding has been delivered and the upgrade to the handheld devices is under way. Xerox is
engaged in additional work to simplify the method by which software upgrades are applied to the
handheld devices. Nine training sessions designed to educate the Fare Inspectors on the full
functionality of the handheld took place the week of August 5th. Fare Inspectors continue to operate in
an “educate & inform” mode and the SMT Program Team is working closely with Marketing and RTD
Security to determine the appropriate strategy to educate our riders. We expect to see an increase in the
number of taps after the fare inspector handheld units are placed in service and fare enforcement goes
live.
As part of the Phase 2 SmartCard deployment, detailed testing plans have been developed to fully test
the Retail Point of Sales (RPOS) Terminals that were delivered to RTD in May. The scheduled testing in
July has not yet occurred due to delays with the vendor; however the allotted time and resources were
used for a successful demo of the point of sales units resulting in positive initial feedback. Members of
RTD Finance, Marketing, Retail Sales, Call Center and others learned how the devices work through a
hands-on demonstration. Phase 2 will see the implementation of these terminals at RTD sales locations
and will provide the general public with the ability to purchase SmartCard products. Planning for Phase
2 of the program is in full-swing and the schedule continues to be evaluated to ensure adequate timing
for a successful Phase 2 launch.
Work continues with colleges and schools to activate and deactivate College SmartCards based on the
status of the student (enrolled students, graduated students, students not attending.) The Program Team

Packet Pg. 34

1.C.3

continues to train the College Staff and provide improved tools to automate and improve the flow of
student pass information into the SMT database. Through this process, several needed improvements to
the web portal have been identified and the Program Team is working with Xerox to gather requirements
and develop a timeline for implementation. In order to ensure a smooth contract renewal process for the
EcoPass program, the Program Team will be focused on this area between now and the end of the year.
The information outlined below contains the current status of SMT Program activities:
1. BUS INSTALLATIONS

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow

1

674 = Number of buses requiring replacements
100 = Number of replacements completed
1 = Number of replacements since last report
15% Complete
 After
escalating
to
Xerox
Executive
Level
Management, Xerox has agreed to replace the
stanchions. RTD will conduct a complete inventory of
buses and will provide Xerox with a list of buses
requiring a stanchion replacement.

Stanchion Replacements

2. PLATFORM INSTALLATIONS & UPGRADES

Key

Elements



Status

Green

2a

Installation



2b

Changing Cellular
Connectivity to Network
on Platform Validators



2c

ADA Compliance on
Platform Validators



Conducted the site surveys with a representative from
RTD’s Network Team at 30th & Downing and Auraria
(Colfax). A Statement of Work is in development that
outlines the PV activities.
A list of sites that are currently configured with cellular
modems has been provided to the Network Team, as well
as those containing both cellular and network connectivity.
Evaluations are under way regarding the cost and timing of
networking all platform validators
We have received feedback from the ADA community that
they would like the platform validators to be upgraded in
the following areas:
 Spoken word
 Braille stickers
LTK has been engaged to research and document the
requirements for these ADA topics. Once we have the
information we can place an order for the Braille stickers,
as well as determine if there is anything that can be done
with the vocals on the platform validators.

Packet Pg. 35

1.C.3

3. FARE INSPECTOR HANDHELDS

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow

3a

Installations



3b

User Manual and
Training



3c

HSMR Training



The HSMR testing on July 15-16 showed that the speed
of the installation/upgrade of software was improved. We
are awaiting the results of additional testing in regards to
battery life. v.15 of the HSMR software is in the process
of being installed on all active HSMRs.
During the HSMR Testing event, both the User Manual and
the Training Documentation were updated and improved
by the “hands-on” use of the devices. A SmartCard FAQ
document as well as a copy of the training presentation
has also been provided to each Fare Inspector.
Fare Inspector Training was completed the week of
August 5th. 80+ Fare Inspectors attended.

4. WEB PORTAL

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
Work continues to verify and validate that the items on
the punch list have been completed. There are no changes
to report since the last status update.
Total Records:

Design Review
4a

4b

Phase 1 Punch List and
Software Releases

Marketing Review





116

Open

52

45%

In Progress

15

13%

Verify

18

16%

Closed

29

25%

Software releases have been created that include most of
the remaining Punch List Items. Detailed requirements
have been identified for the User Roles and a meeting to
finalize the requirements was held. Resources will begin
to work on functional requirements for Phase 1 Punch List
items once the User Role requirements are complete.
The Marketing Web Portal review has been completed. A
matrix that outlines the specific requirements is under
development and will be used by the SMT Program Team
and Marketing to document the adequate level of detail for
Xerox programmers to modify the web site.

Packet Pg. 36

1.C.3

Key



Elements

Status

Yellow

4c

Bulk
Suspend
Deactivation

and



Work continues to assist colleges with their bulk
suspend/deactivate activities in preparation for the start of
the school year. Xerox completed the change of the
expiration date on the contracts on the cards prior to the
August 1st deadline.

5. CARD DISTRIBUTION
Key

Elements



Status

Green

5

Card Issuance



The RFP to purchase additional cards was posted on July
15th. Additionally, a Change Order with Xerox has been
created to order more cards to provide enough stock
through the end of the year. The cards shipped on July
31st, 2013.

6. REPORTS
Key

Elements



Status

Green

6

Reports



Additional APOS (Agency Point of Sale) reporting
requirements have been identified but have not been fully
documented. An additional resource has been engaged to
assist with APOS financial report requirement gathering
and documentation. In addition, reports are being made
available to assist the Eco/College Pass support team in
understanding the current status of cards and riders within
each of the schools/businesses utilizing the Eco/College
Passes. RPOS reports are also being considered.

7. MARKETING

Key

Elements



Status

Green

7a

Strategy



The Marketing Strategy in the near term will focus on the
re-education of the general public concerning “tapping”
practices when boarding RTD transportation. The
implementation of the strategy will coincide with the date

Packet Pg. 37

1.C.3

Key

Elements



Status

Green

7b

Mayor’s Office, City &
County of Denver and
Denver Public Schools



that Fare Inspectors will start inspecting fares in earnest.
Members of the SMT Program Team met with
representatives of the Denver Mayor’s Office and the City
& County of Denver to discuss the strategy and technical
requirements of creating a smart card system that would
provide students with the ability to use one card to gain
access to RTD transportation, Denver recreational centers,
libraries, and their schools.

8. COMMUNICATIONS

Key

Elements



Status

Green

8

Communications continues to assist with messages
delivered
to
Ride
Sponsors
as
issues
arise.
Communication strategy discussions for Phase 2 have
begun. A Program-Level communication plan is being
developed. In addition, The RTD Program Team is working
in tandem with the Xerox Project Manager to ensure
effective and accurate communications within and among
all project stakeholders. Current Team and Executive Level
meetings are being evaluated to ensure all project
stakeholders are getting the information they need, when
they need it. A Program site on The Hub has also been
created.

Strategy

9. RETAIL POINT OF SALE (RPOS)

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
9a

9b

Safeway

King Soopers



Safeway has committed to continue selling RTD products.
Safeway has a moratorium on all changes during the
months of November and December.



Meeting with King Soopers held in early March. They
have indicated they would like to avoid their busy months
of November and December for implementation and
training of their staff. Installations of the units may be
done during this time as long as the work is done during
the overnight hours.

Packet Pg. 38

1.C.3

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
9c

7-Eleven



9d

Design Review



9e

Installation Site Surveys



9f

Factory Acceptance
Testing



9g

APOS Devices



No response from 7-Eleven; may possibly pursue a
partnership with Walgreens.
Design document has been approved. RTD will provide a
cellular modem for communication to the RTD network.
All 300 RPOS Units were delivered to RTD on time.
Modems have arrived and have been configured for use
with the RPOS units.
Network installations at all RTD-owned Retail outlets have
been completed. These sites are ready for RPOS
installation at the appropriate time.
The RPOS testing that was scheduled for the week of July
15th did not take place due to the delay in the software
release. Instead, we conducted a demonstration of the
device to RTD staff that will be using the RPOS on a daily
basis. The SMT Program Team is working with Xerox to
reschedule the RPOS testing.
Extensive testing and trouble-shooting has been completed
on the APOS printer at the Blake office. It was determined
that the camera that takes the pictures printed on cards
may be defective. RTD Technical staff is looking at other
camera options.

NEAR-TERM ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event

Time Frame

Installation & Training of RPOS Units (RTD Locations)

Q2 2014

Installation of RPOS Units (other than RTD locations)

Q3 and Q4 2014

Period passes and Stored Value:
RTD Retail Locations and Web
King Soopers/Safeway/Other Retailers

Q3 2014
Q4 2014/Q1 2015
Phase 1
(Eco, College, Neighborhood):
Complete

Substantial System Completion (All Deliverables)

Phase 2
(MyRide - Passes/Stored Value):
Q3 2014
Phase 3
(Reduced Fare Program &
FlexPass)
2015

Packet Pg. 39

1.C.3

Prepared by:
Judy McMurphy, IT Program Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 40

