Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, October 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:29 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:15 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:25 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Absent

5:10 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:29 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:25 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:00 PM
5:29 PM
5:31 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:29 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

4:59 PM

Directors Francone and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Charles Castro, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, John
Flanagan, David Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Jeff Kay, Jim Maguire, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Mike Millage, Allen Miller,
Mike Nabhan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Ruth Seleske, Karl Shoemaker, Kevin Steele, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Brian Thye, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill
Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Daniel Delin, William Gross, Angie Malpiede, Robert
McNown, Mike Peek, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Richard Wobbekind,

B. Recommended Actions

• Salaried DB & DC Contribution
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to
RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”),
which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
It is also
recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of
9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, explained that the
Defined Benefit Trust (DB) Plan for salaried employees, hired
prior to January 1, 2008, and employees hired after that dates
are on the Defined Contribution Plan, which is a fixed
percentage. In 2012, for calendar year 2013 the calculation
for the closed Defined Benefit (DB) plan was $3.1 million
dollars at that time, it has since that time been determined
that the funding of $3.1 million is insufficient to fund the plan

in the timeframe that is expected, which is by 2030. The
actuarial recommendation for 2018 is $7.3 million, this option
has been deemed too costly to fund at this time. If RTD
contributes $5.1 million next year and into the future, RTD will
not achieve 100% funding until 2037, which is past the goal
date of 2030. This assumes a 7.5% return on investment. The
recommendation is to increase the annual fixed contribution by
$500,000 to $5.1 million.
The recommendation for the DC Plan is to contribute 9%, or
$4,433,000.00 to the plan.
Director Menten asked where would the increase comes from.
Ms. McKillop explained that the amount was assumed into the
budget when it was prepared and that we would use the
$500,000 and were able to use some additional funding from
the change in the budgeting forecast. RTD need to increase
that amount however, it was determined that it must be
achieved incrementally.
Director Menten
contribution.

asked

if

this

was

100%

employer

Ms. McKillop answered yes, both plans are 100% employer
contribution.
Director Lubow stated that the auditor recommends a higher
amount contributed to the DB Plan, however, RTD must
contribute to that fund incrementally. She then asked if there
will be a problem or issue with the represented side, and are
the monies competing at all.
Ms. McKillop stated that the plan that has been offered to the
union on the merits that plan and what was determined by
their actuarial. This plan at the 5.1 million is between 79 80% funded by adding the $500,000 to the fund. The union
plan, as previously discussed, is 43-46% funded which is two
very different situations. The $500,000 is a realistic goal. It is
expected for RTD to fraction the amount up each year in order
to reach the fully funded target date of 2030.
Director Broom asked if the calculations were assumed on the
DB Plan being fully funded by 2030.

Ms. McKillop stated that the original assumption when the
plan was would be able to fund by 2030.
Director Broom stated that if the DB plan it is not fully funded
by 2030 that RTD would continue to pay into the plan after
everyone has retired.
Ms. McKillop agreed.
Director Menten stated that there were no further questions
and moved to vote.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

• 2018 Salaried Benefit Contribution
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan
and authorizes the General Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into
agreements with the insurance carriers.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 24, 2017 Board
Meeting.
Director Tisdale and Deadwyler seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Finance & Administration, stated that based on
input from the Board in 2016, the Benefits Committee
reviewed the Medical Premiums and RTD and the Employee
share of the premium payment. The Benefits Committee is
moving toward the less expensive plans, Kaiser, as being the
base plans to which employees would buy up for Cigna. She
noted that in order to maintain options for employees, we will
maintain two medical providers: Cigna and Kaiser. Noting the
cost differences in the contribution between the Kaiser and
Cigna plans and that it would have been a large cost increase
to employees the first year, and decided to phase the increase
for CIGNA plans over the next three years. Ms. McKillop

offered the following summary of the changes for the 2018
plan year.
Medical
-

Kaiser HDHP – No plan changes
Kaiser DHMO
o Increased Deductibles
 Individual from $600 to $800
 Family from $1,200 to $1,600
 Loss of grandfathered status on this plan
will result in deductibles and co-pays
being credited toward the maximum out
of pocket cost
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to
$250 per script on specialty drugs

-

Cigna HDHP – No plan changes

-

Cigna PPO
o Increase office co-pay visit from $20 to $25
o Increase specialist co-pay from $20 to $50
o Increase emergency room co-pay from $250 to
$500
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to
$250 per script on specialty drugs
o Loss of grandfathered status on this plan will
result in deductibles and co-pays being credited
toward the maximum out of pocket cost
o Utilize the Cigna Local Plus network vs the
Cigna OAP network

Dental
We are still in a rate guarantee period. There is no
administrative fee or plan change.
Life & Disability
There was a significant increase in rates due to
utilization. Due to the price increase, we are putting
this out to bid to see if we can get a better rate.
Vision/Business Travel Accident
We will be changing providers to Superior Vision.
Superior Vision has a larger network and a better
benefit for contacts. The rates are almost identical.

We recently renewed the organization’s Business Travel
Accident insurance for three years; there was no
increase in premium.
The 2018 planned Salaried Employee Benefit budget is
projected to be a 2% increase over 2017 projected benefit
costs.
The 2018 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
is $13,864,043. The projected increase of 4% results in an
increase of $550,848 in 2018. The increase meets the
projected costs in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Director Broom asked if Kaisers Triple Option was considered
which allows people that were previously in Cigna to continue
to use their doctors but everything else goes through the Kaiser
system.
Ms. McKillop stated that options were examined under a Kaiser
only plan. It was determined that we still have enough of our
employees that use Cigna, and that by passing some of the
increased cost to the employee we may see a shift of
employees choosing Kaiser. We will then have to review our
options under the Kaiser plan.
Director Sisk congratulated the department for keeping the
costs down and that keeping the increase between the 2-5%.
Ms. McKillop stated that the benefits group spent a lot of time
looking for options.
Director Hoy commented on the great work and asked if in
three years would the full Cigna premium be shifted to the
employee.
Ms. McKillop stated that what RTD contributes based on what
RTD pays for Kaiser. Our portion will go up as health care
goes up, however, RTD will continue to benchmark that
amount based on Kaiser costs.
Director Solano asked how this change if the affordable care
act fee go away.
Ms. McKillop stated that we know what the fees are based on
what is estimated to be right now, as they have not released

the new fee amounts, however, we believe the fees are close
to the amount listed in the packet.
Director Solano commented that there will be uncertainties
down the road with health care
Director Menten asked how many salaried employees at RTD/
Ms. McKillop stated there are approximately 800 salaried
employees.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

• Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP) and the 2018-2023 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s
goals of Fiscal Sustainability by effecting current and long-range
budgeting in a timely manner.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October 24,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that, staff would provide an update on
both the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the Annual Program
Evaluation (APE).
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, this SBP incorporates the 2017 amended budget and
includes all known adjustments and best estimates at this time.
Some highlighted information are as follows:



Fare revenue is showing a 10% increase every three
years and less than a 1% growth in ridership each year
Sales and use tax now incorporates the CU Leeds
September forecast, this is giving us a positive
















difference of about $27 million over the 6-year period
versus the March forecast.
Ongoing Operating expenses are increased at area CPI
rates and then adjusted for other known items and
necessary reductions.
Diesel fuel has been budgeted at $1.80/gallon and
gasoline at $2.65/gallon.
Capital and expense projects (O&M) projects includes
specifically identified minimum/must-have operating and
maintenance projects based on State of Good Repair
(SOGR) priorities. These projects are detailed in Exhibit
III. Other projects may be added based on available
cash flow if sales tax revenue improves or there are
excess fund balances at year-end. Specific projects will
be determined from the deferred (non-critical) project list
in Exhibit IV.
No new debt has been issued over the SVP term, and
debt payments continue only on existing debt.
The SBP will require that we draw on reserves in order
to balance the plan. The staff recommends that the
Board-appropriated fund be funded at a minimum of $3
million each year in 2018-2019, not funded (not drawn)
in 2020, drawn by $7.0 million in 2021 to help balance
the SBP, and then funded at $5 million each year in
2022-2023. This fund is projected to reach a balance of
over $26 million in 2023.
The unrestricted operating reserve was established in
2017 and funded with available cash flow.
Staff
recommends that the unrestricted operating fund be
funded at a minimum of $5.0 million each year in 20182019, drawn by a total of $19.7 million in 2020-2021
to help balance the SBP, and then funded with available
cash flow in 2022-2023. The SBP will apply available
dollars toward the operating fund such that it reaches
nearly $29 million in 2022 and reaches over $59 million
in 2023.
The capital replacement fund be drawn entirely in 2018
for fleet purchases and then funded by $3.0 million
each year beginning in 2022. This fund is projected to
reach a balance of $6.0 million in 2023.
The total of these three funds is projected to be nearly
$92 million in 2023
The SVP is now balanced, which means we have a
positive unrestricted year-end fund balance over the sixyear period, we will maintain a minimum $2 million




balance in the outlying years while supporting minimum
capital expense projects and restore the reserve fund
balances.
There will not be a subsidy from the Base System to
FasTracks for this six-year period.
The SVP is used as a guide for the 2018 budget. As
part of our shift to an O&M environment, we will
continue to cost allocate to FasTracks operations and
we will have more acute spending on SOGR.

Ms. McKillop stated that we were we able to move state
highway 119 to 2023. We will talk about the potential
maintenance facility in the long range plan. She also added that
the $92 million in the reserves is significant but not the Board
recommended 3-month reserve.
Susan Cohen, Manager, FasTracks Program Control, the 2017
APE and the SBP are developed in concert, and the underlying
assumptions in the APE are consistent with those used in the
SBP. Ms. Cohen summarized the following:








Fare revenues are projected using the same fare revenue
model and fare increase assumptions
Sales and use tax projections for the 0.4% sales and use
tax incorporate the September 2017 CU-Leeds forecasts
Grant revenues are based on existing grant agreements and
past trends, adjusted at CPI as appropriate
Interest income on available balance is projected using the
same methodology as for the SBP.
The cost allocations to FasTracks from the SBP and the
FasTracks “rubber tire” service increase feed directly from
the SBP.
Operating and maintenance costs for the Eagle Project are
derived from the Concession Agreement

The total FasTracks project budget through 2020 included in
the APE is approximately $5.6 billion. The major changes
between the 2016 and 2017 APE involve the North Metro
Project Specific changes listed below:


Additional funding to cover the current scope to complete
o Additional RTD overhead
o Head-end tie-in
o Risks
o Riverside grade crossing elimination

o

Additional parking at end-of-line station

The average annual operating and maintenance cost for the
first ten years of North Metro operations is projected at $25.9
million in 2017 dollars.
Outside of the North Metro Project, there are some net savings
of $12.2 million through 2020, as summarized below.






Savings from projected completion of the I-225 project
under the 2016 APE budget - $15 million savings
Reduce remaining budget for the Free Metro Ride to the
$1.5 million required for City and County of Denver capital
improvements - $1.8 million savings
Reduction in program wide capital costs - $0.7 million
savings
Additional funds required for project closeout staffing and
extension of project closeout to 2020 - $5.4 million

Future implementation of projects not included in the current
APE would require identification of funding sources for
construction and operations, and would require approval of the
Board.
The projected APE cash flow does not require Base System
funding to support FasTracks corridor operations and
maintenance. However, the FasTracks Capital Acquisition
Fund would have to be drawn down in 2021, and funding from
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be needed
between 2021 and 2023, to fund FasTracks corridor
operations and maintenance. However, there will be a balance
left in the FISA in 2023.
Ms. McKillop followed up on the FISA stating that any saving
that are removed from project go into the FISA. In regards to
North Metro the $52 million regarding current scope has not
changed, however operations costs have changed. Originally
cost was based on the assumption that RTD would be
operating North Metro. Those are the differences from the
expenditure side of the previous document.
Director Broom asked if CU Leeds takes into consideration the
marijuana issue.
Ms. Scarpino stated that the September forecast specifically
notes that the marijuana tax is excluded for the next five years.

Ms. McKillop stated that current law does not have marijuana
sales tax coming to RTD. CU Leeds will be presenting the
September forecast.
Director Tisdale observed that the approval of the APE with the
$33 million increase does not inferentially constitute a decision
by this board to have RTD assume the operations and
maintenance of the North Metro project, if it were to this is the
financial impact.
Ms. McKillop agreed that the assumption we made was based
on RTD operating and maintaining North Metro, but this is not
conclusive.
Director Lubow stated she will vote no because there is
nothing in the budget helping her district get the rail. She also
asked for an explanation regarding the $52 million that isn’t
included in the North Metro scope.
Ms. McKillop reviewed the items of the head in and tie in, the
risk assessment associated with the scope gap, additional
parking, and end of line, and riverside crossing are the main
items that constituted that number.
Mr. Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs stated the extended overhead and extending staff in
order to close out that was expected for 2018 and now is
going into 2019. The head end and tie in from Eagle Project
to the North Metro project. This was a responsibility oversight
Director Lubow reiterated that state highway 119 is included in
the SBP and is moved back one year. She also commented that
FISA was not brought to zero but was lower, and that this was
why she would vote no.
Director Anderson pointed out that the FISA is the FasTracks
plan and that money will go to build out the FasTracks plan,
and the FISA account is the plan savings account to build out
the FasTracks plan. No one actually loses.
Director Sisk thanked the staff finding a way to including
highway 119. He acknowledged that we did not have the
budget for some of the other projects.

Director Menten asked if the 15L route improvement that are
coming up will these be changes by the go bond vote, and if
contributions be affected.
Ms. McKillop stated our contributions stay the same, that it
will not change, but compliment what we are doing.
Director Menten questioned the Public Utilities Commission
(PUC) issues with signs at Welton that is requiring RTD to
replace the current signage.
General Manager, Dave Genova responded that the signage is
part of the original system from 1994, and the Welton corridor
is one of a higher accident rate area between light rail and
automobiles. This project will replace and enhance the warning
lights that warn motorist of oncoming light rail trains. The
Welton corridor is a higher accident rate this project is to
enhance the signage in that area. Other complications to the
area is that this is a one-way street and the train operates two
ways, and these signs will improve the warnings and
awareness of approaching trains. This has been a high priority
area for the PUC for RTD to improve through the state safety
oversight program.
Director Menten questions the cost of $1.3 million in capital to
complete this project.
Mr. Genova stated that it is an involved project to replace
signal within a light rail corridor.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone

• Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
This action item meets the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability
by effecting current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that this took more effort, but we were
able to get this balanced.
Ms. Cohen explained that the Long Range Financial Plan
(LFRP) covers the Base System and the FasTracks through
2040. It serves as an extension of the six-year Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) and Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
through the regional planning time horizon, which is currently
2040. It ensures that RTD can fund the ongoing operation and
maintenance of the Base System and the FasTracks corridors
while repaying its debt. Key elements of the plan for the years
2024-2040 include the following:




Base System Operations and Capital Replacement
o Continued operating costs based on the final year of
the SBP, escalated at the Consumer Price Index
(CPI)
o

Annual allowance for major rehabilitation assumed
based on 0.5% of installed cost of existing asset
inventory, escalated at CPI.

o

Additional service for the SH 119 project at its
completion.

o

Replacement of revenue fleet and other assets
based on current asset inventory and replacement
schedules, adjusted for major assets purchased in
the SBP period.

o

Replacement of a maintenance facility in 2026 to
meet projected capacity needs.

FasTracks Operations and Capital Maintenance
o Cost allocations from the Base System based on the
final year of the SBP, escalated at the Consumer
Price Index (CPI).
o

FasTracks-funded rubber tire service increase based
on the final year of the SBP, escalated at the
Consumer Price Index (CPI).

o

Eagle operating and maintenance costs derived from
the Concession Agreement

o

North Metro operations and maintenance costs
based on RTD operations, escalated at CPI
Annual allowance for major rehabilitation of
corridors outside the Eagle Project assumed based
on 0.3% of installed asset value, escalated at CPI

o





Revenue Projections
o Sales and use tax forecasts from the September
2017 Leeds forecasts
o Farebox revenues forecast using the fare model
used for the SBP
 Fare increases tied to the CPI assumed every
third year
o Future formula grants forecast based on historic
appropriations, escalated at CPI
 Assuming additional fixed guideway grants
assumed for FasTracks corridors beginning
nine years after corridors enter revenue
service
FasTracks corridor construction
o Additional projects to meet commitments included
in the environmental clearances for federally-funded
corridors

In order to balance, however, we had to the following:







Need to take a total of $166.2 million from the base
system in 2024-2030 to fund FasTracks expenditures
Need to issue COPs to finance selected Base System
capital expenditures in 2026-2028
o Bus maintenance facility in 2026:
o Bus purchases in 2027-2028:
Need to issue COPs to finance FasTracks vehicle
replacements and US 36 construction in 2027 and 2030
Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating
reserves on Base System to equivalent of one months of
operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’
operating expenses by 2031



Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating
reserves on FasTracks to equivalent of one months of
operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’
operating expenses in 2031



Use remaining FISA balance to fund FasTracks operations
and maintenance in 2024
o

Restore FISA balances starting in 2031, as funding
becomes available

Ms. McKillop reiterated that an assumption was made
regarding the FISA. We made a transfer between 2024-2030
from the Base system to FasTracks. After 2030 FasTracks
starts seeing some small balances, and by 2040 the balance
gets up to about $327 million. We did not make assumptions
about transferring money back to the Base System based on
the amount moved. We also made an assumption that any
money available or left over in FasTracks would be put back
into the FISA. The short years are a little more drastic than
previous years. We had to issue more debt than the previous
year, and the slightly higher transfer of base funds this year.
Director Williams posed a generic question regarding how
historically accurate sales and use tax have they been over the
years.
Ms. McKillop requested the Director to wait for the CU Leeds
presentation.
Director Menten questioned if the Board would like to hear this
prior to voting.
Robert McNown, Research Associate CU Leeds School of
Business, reviewed the page titled Error Tracking that presents
percent forecast errors. The report shows dates in which the
forecast was made and each cell is either for the quarter or the
year as a whole. When the forecast was presented in March
2015 there was a 1.8% margin of error, as we advance
through the year forecast errors go down as we gather more
information. By March 2016, the error is slightly above 1%.
This shows a remarkably small incident of error. It is important
that the forecast not be systematically biased in one direction
or the other. The record of forecasting is 50-50in positive and
negative errors, which balance out so that the average error is
zero.

Director Williams confirmed that the presentation shows that
the margin of error is miniscule. This forecast has been
historically accurate and to trust the estimated.
Ms. McKillop explained that the forecast goes out to 2040,
and the near term estimates are sound.
Director Broom stated that it appears that the total FasTracks
system, except Longmont rail should be up and running by 12
years, and that we will have level operations on the FasTracks
side and we can see whether all of the projections made were
correct.
Ms. McKillop explained that we will have addressed current
projects in this Long Range Plan, however we have not
addressed the four remaining corridors, the rest of the North
corridor, the North West Rail, or the extension of the B Line to
Longmont, the Central Platte corridor extension, as well as the
Southwest corridor will not be completed in this 2040
timeframe. We have made any assumptions about the
remaining balances of the $327 million or where that would
go. One or more of those project could get done but that
assumption has not been made in this 2040 plan. money
where that will go or as to what projects may be funded.
Director Broom asked will we build more than we can operate
Ms. McKillop stated that our plan says we can operate with
the assumption that have currently been made.
Director Solano asked about the Base System capital
replacement and what facility in 2026 will we be updating or
building.
Ms. McKillop stated that we do not know where we will either
be expanding or building a new facility, but that we are at
capacity currently our locations. We would not know where
this may occur until we began the highway SH 119 project.
Due to this a dollar figure was included to address this
eventuality.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
NAYS: Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
AWAY:
Ernest Archuleta

C. Updates

• Sales & Use Tax Forecast Update - CU Leeds
Ms. McKillop introduced the team from the CU Leeds School of Business, including Dr.
Robert McNown, Dr. Rich Wobbekind, and Brian Lewandowski, and said that CU Leeds
presents to the Board each year following the September forecasting period. She noted
that CU Leeds has changed its forecasting methodology for RTD to a consensus forecast
with a low margin of error.
Dr. Wobbekind, Associate Dean of the CU Leeds School of Business, explained the context
for their forecasting model, which represents the state and national economy. He said he
would speak about the forecasting uncertainties and compare the CU Leeds forecast with
those from the Legislative Council (LC) and the Office of State Planning and Budgeting
(OSPB). He said that the consumers have been carrying the U.S. economy over the past
five years and that the government, business, and export sectors have not contributed
much toward gross domestic product (GDP) growth. He noted that consumer spending,
which represents 70% of the economy, has allowed for a 2% GDP growth rate. He said
that business fixed investment was strong in the first two quarters of 2017 and looked to
be strong going forward, driven by potential corporate tax changes and corporate profits.
He said GDP growth of 2.2-2.4% percent was anticipated, which was better than the
previous year and the ten-year period of 2000 to 2009. He said there had been strong job
growth for a fairly long time and that September 2017 had been the first month of
negative growth in seven years’ time. He attributed the decline to impacts from hurricanes
and said the decline was an anomaly but noted that job growth had declined in 2017 from
2015 and 2016. He said job growth was constrained by a low unemployment rate, a low
labor force participation rate, and a lack of people of prime employment age, both
nationally and in Colorado. Compared to other states, he said that Colorado was the fourth
fastest growing state in the country and had been doing very well according to several
metrics except for personal per capita income growth, average annual pay growth, and
home price appreciation. He noted that 43 of the 50 states had eclipsed pre-recession
employment peaks but noted that two of Colorado’s neighboring states have experienced
negative employment growth. In terms of population growth, he said that Colorado’s rate
would begin to slow but would retain faster growth than the nation as a whole and that
the state would rely on net migration from the rest of the nation for future population
increases. He stated that Colorado had the fastest rate of population growth by
percentage and was eighth in terms of absolute population growth. He said the regional

job growth peaked in 2014 at 3.7% and has since decelerated but has remained higher
than the national average. He concluded that CU Leeds was bullish on the Colorado
economy but noted the state and local economies were slowing down, which would in
turn affect the forecast.
Dr. McNown reiterated that national economic drivers affect the state and district
economies, which in turn drives sales and use tax revenues. He said that CU Leeds uses
different models for the short-term and medium-turn forecasts than the long-term forecast.
He said the variables used in the forecasting model for the short-term and medium-term
forecast were employment, personal income, and retail sales and taxable model. He noted
the key variables for the long-term forecast were supply-driven, such as constraints due to
population growth and the aging of the population, the number of workers of prime age,
labor productivity, savings, investment, and output growth. He said that the national and
local economies should anticipate steady but moderate growth over the next six years,
particularly in the short term, and that Colorado could expect growth at a rate higher than
the national average both in the short term and beyond. He cautioned that the economy
faces uncertainties from economic policies, international affairs, commodity prices, and
other factors, which is why the forecasts are updated on a regular basis using up-to-date
information. He noted that CU Leeds changed to a more conservative medium-term
forecast from Moody’s Analytics, which is based on a consensus approach. He stated that
Moody’s baseline forecast had routinely been overly optimistic and had to be revised
downward repeatedly. He said that CU Leeds, in consultation with RTD staff, changed in
March to a consensus forecast based on national models of government agencies, private
firms, and international agencies such as the International Monetary Fund. He stated the
total revenue growth in 2017 was expected to be 5.9% and would be lower in 2018. He
noted that CU Leeds has tried to accommodate forecasting errors by performing scenario
planning using a comparison of the optimistic from Moody’s Analytics, the consensus
forecast now used by RTD, and a pessimistic forecast. He said the pessimistic forecast is
close to the growth seen in the consensus forecast. He said his team worked with RTD’s
Finance Department to provide a range of options that capture uncertainty in the
forecasting models. Looking forward, he stated that, in real terms, there would be a
tremendous slowing in long term growth rates and revenues and that in last decade of
long-term forecast horizon, from 2036-2045, the annual rate of growth was projected to
be 1% lower than the current 10-year period, which was due to a change in demographics
and an aging population. He said that CU Leeds compared its forecasts with those from LC
and OSPB and that the CU Leeds forecast projected lower personal income and
employment growth than the other agencies. He concluded by stating that, in order to
maintain the integrity of their forecasts, the CU Leeds team did not change its predictions
arbitrarily, because they believe in their forecasting model. He stated that the team is
independent, has no political stake in its forecasts, and has no particular affiliation except
by contract with RTD.
Director Anderson asked whether the forecast differentiated between online and storefront
sales.
Mr. Lewandowski said there was no such differentiation, because the Colorado
Department of Revenue’s sales and use tax reports did not show the source of the

revenue reported. He noted that the sales tax reporting from Amazon’s online sales was
slowly being incorporated into the data.
Director Archuleta asked how the salaries of the additional operators and employees
needed to combat the agency’s operator shortfall and to operate the North Line and the
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) would affect the budget.
Ms. McKillop said that accommodations were made from a financial perspective and that
all of the budgets assumed the salary expenditures for the lines anticipated to be in
operation.
Director Tisdale asked whether the revenue projections excluded marijuana sales and use
tax data.
Dr. McNown said that was correct. He said that marijuana revenues were extracted from
the historical data in order to provide the data for the projections.
Director Broom said that recessions would happen but could not be predicted. He noted
that the recovery period following the 2008 recession was one of the longer ones in
history. He said the agency should be prepared to see another recession within four to five
years and noted that the projections would at that time be at odds with what is going on
in the real world.
Dr. McNown stated that CU Leeds had provided a recession scenario in their report. He
agreed that the timing of the recession could not be predicted.
Ms. McKillop said that the agency had decided to build reserves to help offset a recession.
She said her department had attempted to build up the agency’s fund reserves by drawing
down the funds as little as possible in future budgets.
Dr. Wobbekind noted that no one could have predicted a 2008-caliber recession. He said
that none of the indicators showed that the next recession would be as severe as the one
in 2008, and he noted that reserves were better suited to handle a gentle dip rather than a
dramatic event.
Director Solano asked what percentage of RTD’s budget was made up of marijuana tax
revenue.
Dr. McNown said that about 1% of RTD’s tax revenues came from marijuana tax revenue.

• Quarterly Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Internal Audit Manager, said the Board had copies of the audits
contained in the packet. She said the auditors provided a status report of in-progress
audits and noted the amount of work that still needed to be done to complete the audits in
the plan. She said that the auditors were in progress on audits for the Access-a-Ride and
Call-n-Ride programs. She said a few of the audits from the plan would continue in 2018
and stated that there would be several follow-up audits to ensure that their
recommendations were implemented.

Director Broom asked whether the internal audit team was involved at all with external
audits and whether the external auditor had started yet.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that the internal auditors do interact with the external auditor and
provide all of RTD’s audit reports. She said the external audit communications occur early
in the year and later in the year. She said the internal auditors had not yet made contact
with the external auditor for 2017.
Director Broom asked whether the backlog of internal audits would affect the work of the
external auditor.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said the internal auditors account for time spent working with the
external auditor into the audit plan.
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, said that the external auditors select certain audits,
and the internal auditors provide all of the work papers for those audits.
Director Deadwyler asked where the audit team was with the audit of Access-a-ride.
Mr. Parker said that the audit was in progress and that the auditing team
needed to speak with Directors Deadwyler and Folska. He said the auditors
had a high-level scope of the topics that would be covered.

• 2018 Requested Budget
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
presented the 2018 requested budget. She said the requested budget is
distinct from the recommended budget and is a first draft. She said the
budget would see changes before the final recommended version. She said
the new capital in the budget for FasTracks is preliminary and the capital
carryforward had not yet been updated. She said that neither the expense
projects or expense project carryforward were included in the first draft. She
noted that staff typically combined Base and FasTracks funding into a
financial statement, which was presented to the Board. She said the
summary was included in the board packet and reviewed some of the key
economic indicators that impact the budgeting process.
Ms. McKillop spoke to the non-profit program that the Board had discussed
earlier in the year. She said that staff had left the funding of the program at
$6.8 million, which was unchanged from the amount budgeted in 2017,
because, based on the fact that the pass working group was investigating
the possibility of issuing discounts or passes for low-income passengers.
She said that staff wanted to see the result of the working group’s efforts
before making adjustments.
Director Menten said that Ms. McKillop had spoken previously about budgets
being project-based and asked her to speak to the savings that were found.
Ms. McKillop said that staff had attempted to tie the 2018 budgets to cost
drivers, which meant several areas received considerably less funding than in
previous years. She said that people tend to build contingencies into their
budgets, which is natural, and that staff tried to strip back those

contingencies and instead established a fund that could be used in if there
were a legitimate issue, rather than having significant underruns in the
budget. She said that was a new process for 2018 that would need to be
adjusted going forward. She said staff learned more about what the cost
drivers would be. She stated that, using the new method, staff reduced the
budget by$10 million overall, $5 million of which would be used for a
reserve fund, and the remainder would revert to the unrestricted year-end
fund balance and to other projects.
Director Menten thanked staff for their efforts and said that the savings
found were substantial. She said that the new budgeting scheme was not
the same as zero-base budget but stated that the reevaluation was good.
Director Tisdale noted that debt payments for the Base system in the budget
increased from $50 million to $59 million, while the debt payments for
FasTracks were reduced from $8.1 million to $5.7 million.
Ms. Scarpino said that staff was seeing increases in principle payments and
decreases in interest payments, largely because of refunding measures. She
said that the refunding measures came with new reamortization schedules.
Ms. McKillop noted that the agency would pay off the T-Rex Project bonding
debt in 2024, and as the end of the loan term approaches, the agency
would pay more in principle and less in interest. She said that staff had done
a tremendous amount of work restructuring the agency’s debt, especially
with the refunding of the Denver Union Station loan and other measures
approved by the Board in 2017. She stated that millions of dollars had been
saved, which allowed staff to do more without having to transfer money
from the Base system accounts.

• August 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, said the report showed red than in previous
months. He stated that sales and use tax revenues were down 1.7%, which
still amounted to an increase of $3.8 million over 2017 revenue projections.
He noted that the lower tax revenues in August were attributable to the loss
of marijuana tax revenues and lower car sales compared to August 2016. He
said that ridership continued to be lower than expectations, which in turn
drove 0.7% lower fare revenue than expected. He said that, per request
from the Board, ridership information would be included in the report and
would be broken down by local, regional, and Call-n-Ride service. He said
that the monthly ridership for each light rail line and non-revenue service
was also included.
Director Menten thanked staff for reintroducing the ridership counts back
into the monthly financial reports. She asked when the annual subsidy report
would be presented.

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, said that the report would be presented in November
2017. He noted that, due to changes in accounting methodologies, staff
would not be able to report the per-rider fare subsidy.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

