Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 14,
2009 in Rooms R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

I.

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Chacon,
Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director Kemp, Director Pulliam,
Director Tobiassen

Director Busck, Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle

Staff Present:

Terry Howerter, Bruce Able, Scott Roberts, Bill Porter, Trent Ratcliff, Lisa Fliam, Teresa
Sedmak, Robert Merriman, Daria Serna, Scott Reed, Dave Genova, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 6:51 p.m.

Recommended Actions
a. IT Work Order Contract Third Year Option (Exercise of Third Year Option)
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a third year contract option in
the amount of $250,000 to extend the current work order contract IT Technical and Management
Support for General Software Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration of Legacy Software
(17DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2007 to Dataman USA, LLC (a
DBE/SBE company) through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year
plus four one year options to renew based on positive performances by the vendor. In order to
continue the 3rd year option additional funding must be added to the contract.
b. Revised Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement (the Agreement”).

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 2 of 4

c. Contract Amendment - Sherman & Howard LLC
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manger to amend the District’s contract with Sherman & Howard LLC for Bond
Counsel Services through the addition of $140,000.
Motion:

Director Cohen made a motion to forward items A – C
to the July 21, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously. Director Pulliam left
after the vote.

II.

May Financial Status Report and 2009 Budget Update - Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis gave this update. System wide ridership year to date May 2009 is fairly flat compared to May
2008. System wide we are up .4% However, the month itself, May 2009 is down 3.1%. This is the first
month that staff has seen this decline. Sales and use tax - year to date run rate for May 2009 is down
13.5% from 2008. Month of May 2009 is down 12.3% from May 2008. Operating revenues up 10.7%
year to date but under budget due primarily to the economy. The Districts expenditures are under budget.
Director Tayer asked about the new ridership software and that there were problems and staff had to
estimate the ridership numbers. Mr. Merriman replied that staff feels good about the numbers because they
used the GFI model and they don’t anticipate a large variance. Staff has implemented some new
applications with the software and they did have bugs in it which caused the problems. Booze-Allen is in
the process of correcting the issues.
Chair Tayer asked about the Special Fares number on page 17 of the packet and why it was a negative
number. Staff promised to follow up on that item.
Terry Howerter spoke about sales tax. He has been talking with the State Revenue Department and had
been told they do not see any material adjustments in the current month. City and State are tracking very
closely to the District’s numbers.
CLC in now providing forecast figures quarterly. They are forecasting -7% for the 3rd quarter, -2% for the
4th quarter with a yearly average of -9.7%. Mr. Howerter is not going to update this section every month
as he wants to see how closely the District tracks with CLC and report back to the Committee.
Director Christopher said that in light of Terry’s comments he would make his request now. Staff provided
the Board with updated sales tax projections through 2035. Director Christopher believes the Board needs
to be further equipped with additional projections rather than “being married” to a single assumption for a
given year. Director Christopher feels that the forecasts are still too optimistic and he would like to see the
District err on the side of more conservative projections. In the six and a half years that he has been on the
Board, we have always missed our sales tax forecast. Because so much is riding on this and we need to go

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 3 of 4
back to the voters in 2010, additional projections would be helpful. Director Christopher feels that the
inaccurate projections have hurt our reputation. He would like to see the projections run again with a 1%
reduction from each of these years and then a 2% reduction. Director Christopher wants to see the raw
dollars lost per year. Would like to see raw dollar impact to see where the Board might need to adjustments
now rather than later. He did not want a policy decision or a policy discussion, just further fiscal forecasting
by staff to better equip the Board.
Director James felt this was a good idea. Director James called it a “sensitivity analysis”, we need to be
clear on what the dependent and independent variables are that you want analyzed. Sales tax is the
independent variable and the dependent variable that would be useful to analyze is when can FasTracks be
completed?
Terry Howerter said the 1% and 2% analysis can be done by the next committee meeting or via email as it
impacts the base budget.
Bruce Abel clarified that the Board also wants to see the impacts on being able to complete FasTracks by
2017.
Director Tayer said his read is that we are looking at impact of a sales tax projection on Operations and
FasTracks and he supports that. Director Brohl also agree and felt that the document should be noted that
they do not represent any Board policy or decision changes, they are just additional pieces of information
that the Board wants to look at. It needs to be clear that the Board is not looking past 2017 at this point.
Director Bagley said this needs to be bolded at the top of the document. He felt this would be good to
show to our stakeholders that we are looking at these issues and that we are aware of them. Director
Kemp agreed with this and talked about finding other finance models that we need to put together to show
that we can work through these difficult financial situations. Director James spoke about how this is going
to create a lot of “what ifs” and we need to be careful with that. The variable is not if it gets complete but
when it gets complete. Keep the model simple so that it can be easily presented to others.
Director Daly brought up that we base our projections on the Colorado Legislative Council and Mr. Howerter
said this is correct. The District uses figures from the Colorado Legislative Council and also the State of
Colorado Office of State Planning and Budgeting. FasTracks and Operations are both in line with these
figures. Mr. Howerter stressed that FasTracks needs to stay separate from base Operations. Finance will
model the TDP for the base system and FasTracks will present the other stress test.
Director Christopher said all he was requesting was number crunching. The Board is not changing policy
direction just getting the benefit of getting additional information.
III. Follow up on Board Input Regarding Revenue and Cost Saving Ideas - Terry Howerter spoke to this agenda
item and talked about the next steps. The list needs to be re-prioritized and will be presented at the next
committee meeting and then look for some implementation kind of suggestions. There are some ideas that
cover tax revenue ideas that would require voter approval. Fees would require Legislative Action.
Director Brohl spoke about the “Expense Management Strategies” listed on page 21 and wanted to know
where we were on implementation. Director Bagley wanted to know what the amounts were going to be.
Chair Tayer proposed that at the next meeting we will have better analysis on how we move forward and
what it would take to pursue some of these specific actions. Mr. Howerter reminded the Committee that

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Page 4 of 4
budget cutting measures have already been taken this year in the Board office in regards to travel and
meals.
Director Chacon said that the Board would also like to see staff ideas on where additional cuts could come
from.
IV. 2010-2015 TDP and 2010 Budget Update – Terry Howerter said we are at the point where it is time to
move the TDP ahead. Staff is planning on coming back with an amended 2009 budget in August which will
set the starting point for the TDP. Mitigation options will be discussed at that time as well (Salary freezes,
service reductions, using additional reserves). Mr. Howerter reviewed the TDP with the current projections
for 2009.
Director Cohen said he was very pessimistic about the projections. Mr. Howerter agreed and feels that we
will be down longer; he is presenting information from outside groups but will model the projections as
requested earlier.
Director Chacon asked about the diesel fuel lock. Mr. Abel said that currently we are waiting for it to hit
$2.00/gallon to lock another 25%.
Director Kemp asked about the mall bus replacement procurement. Mr. Howerter said those prototypes are
in the FasTracks budget.
Mr. Abel spoke about how this is really going to be an exercise in the tradeoffs between using reserves
versus service revisions versus other strategies as we set up to balance a budget in tight financial times.
What do we give in order to get?
Mr. Howerter pointed out some of the options that staff has put together on page 66 of the packet. Every
capital project will be looked at and look for ways to free up money. Some of the other options are looking
at a possible fare increase, service reductions, salary freezes, cost control, furloughs, and use of operating
reserve. There will be additional discussion on this in August with passage of the TDP in September.
Chair Tayer spoke of his hesitancy to do more service cuts as that is RTD’s business.
V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI. Next Meeting – August 11, 2009
VII. Motion to Adjourn to Executive Session – The Executive Session was cancelled.
VIII. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the committee at 7:49 p.m.

