Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 4, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc
• State Update - Brandeberry Mckenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - May 2, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 30, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 30, 2017

Board Meeting Date: April 4, 2017

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 03-29-17

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Date:

March 29, 2017

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

The following are items for April 4, 2017:
1. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full caucus meeting is April 5 from 7:30-10
A.M. Meetings are held at the Metro Denver Chamber, 1445 Market St.
2. State of the City Addresses – A number of mayors across the region have scheduled
“State of the City” address (see below). Please let me know if you would like to attend
one of the events.
 4/11 Superior State of the City - 12-1 @ Sports Stable
 4/13 Centennial State of the City 11:30-1:30 @ Embassy Suites Denver Tech
Center
 4/21 Arvada State of the City - 7:15am @ Arvada Center
 5/18 Aurora State of the City 11:30-1:30 @ Hyatt Regency Aurora-Denver

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800 Denver, CO 80264

p. 303.592.5450

f. 303.592.5460

www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 03-29-17 (3105 : Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 30, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 28, 2017

Board Meeting Date: April 4, 2017

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry Mckenna

ATTACHMENTS:


State Update Brandeberry McKenna

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.2.a

To:

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: March 28, 2017
Re:

April Board Update

Last week the Joint Budget Committed finalized the long bill (also known as the Budget Bill).
On Monday, the caucuses met and the bill was introduced in the Senate, where it will be debated
for the remainder of the week. The House will continue with non-budget related bill
work. BBMK will provide a summary of the budget as it moves through the Senate and House
Chambers.
HB17-1242 New Transportation Infrastructure Funding Revenue sponsored by Speaker
Duran, Senate President Grantham and Transportation Chairs Rep. Mitsch Bush and Senator
Baumgardner. The bill attempts to address the extreme underfunding of our states infrastructure
and mobility systems. HB 1242 is a bill that will refer to the ballot in 2017, a sales tax increase
to fund state and local government. The increase in revenue will allow for the State to bond up
to $3.5 million for projects across Colorado. HB 1242 cuts FASTER fees, and directs $677
million in new and existing resources toward the transportation needs for all Coloradoans. The
bill passed the House Finance Committee 10-3 with Reps. Thurlow, Covarrubias and Catlin
voting no.
SB17-153 Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission sponsored by
Senators Garcia and Crowder and Rep. Esgar. The bill replaces the Southwest Chief Rail Line
Commission housed in CDOT with the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission. The new commission will assume the duties of the old commission which was set
to repeal on July 1, 2017. These duties include the coordination of efforts to ensure that track
repairs and upgrades required for continuation of the existing Southwest Chief Rail service in
Colorado are completed. The bill will also study extending rail service to Pueblo as well as
exploring the benefits of extending service to Walsenberg. The Commission is also tasked with
developing draft legislation that facilitates the development of a passenger rail system to provide
service in and along the I-25 corridor. An appointee from the District would be a member of
the Board. CDOT is supporting the bill and the legislation provides an opportunity to have all
stakeholders involved in this discussion at the table. The bill has been scheduled for a hearing
in the House Transportation and Energy Committee at 1:30pm on April 12th.
SB17-205 Multimodal Transportation Infrastructure Funding sponsored by Senator Kefalas
and Rep. Rosenthal. This bill requires the Transportation Commission to submit a ballot
question to the voters that if approved would authorize the state to increase state sales and use
the tax to fund and finance transportation projects including passenger rail. Senator Kefalas was
granted delayed bill status on this legislation.
Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: State Update Brandeberry McKenna (3100 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

HB17-1171 Authorize New Transportation Revenue Anticipation Notes sponsored by Reps.
Carver and Buck. This bill requires that the Transportation Commission submit a ballot question
in November of 2017 asking voters to approve $3.5 billion in bonds for transportation
funding. The bill would set aside 10 percent of future state sales tax for transportation
projects. The bill is scheduled for a hearing on March 29th at 1:30pm in the House State
Veterans and Military Affairs Committee.
SB17-040 Public Access to Government Files sponsored by Senators Kefalas and Gardner and
Rep. Pabon. The bill concerns public access to digital database records. The bill passed the
Senate with the amendment that required the judicial division be subject to Colorado Open
Records Act. There were additional amendments added on Second Reading that provided for
exemptions to CORA for infrastructure information and allowed public employees to request
certain information be protected from disclosure. The bill was introduced in the House and
assigned to the Finance Committee.
HB17-1177 Mediation for Disputes Arising Under CORA sponsored by Reps. Wist and
Garnett and Senator Cooke. This bill is intended to encourage record requesters and
governmental entities to resolve disputes through mediation rather than in the court system. The
bill would require the requesters and record custodians to evenly split the cost of hiring a
mediator. A strike below amendment was adopted by the Committee that simply requires a
meeting or call between the records custodian and requestor after a denial of a request but
before filing a request with district court to resolve a dispute. The meeting may include
recourse to any dispute resolution agreeable and paid for by both parties. The bill passed the
House and was introduced in the Senate and assigned to the State Affairs Committee.
In addition to monitoring transportation related legislation, BBMK continues to follow sales tax
bills which have a direct operational impact on the district.
HB17-1103 Sales and Use Tax Exemption for Historic Aircraft sponsored by Reps. Nordberg
and Pabon and Senators Moreno and Gardner. The bill is attempting to address an issue
regarding state historic aircraft owners wishing to loan their historic aircraft to museums in
Colorado without being taxed. The fiscal note only mentions a “potential impact.” The bill
passed both chambers.
HB17-1127 Exempt Feminine Hygiene Products from Sales Tax sponsored by Rep. Lontine
and Senator Martinez Humenik. The bill creates a state sales tax exemption, commencing
January 1, 2018, for all sales, storage, and use of feminine hygiene products. The bill has a
large fiscal note and will likely not survive the Appropriations Committee. The bill is waiting
to be calendared in the House Appropriations Committee.
HB17-1195 Create a State Sales Tax Exemption for Diapers sponsored by Rep. Winter and
Senator Martinez Humenik. The bill creates a sales tax exemption, commencing January 1, 2018
for the sale, storage and use of diapers. The bill further allows local taxing jurisdictions to adopt

2
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: State Update Brandeberry McKenna (3100 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1.C.2.a

1.C.2.a

the same exemption. The bill passed the House Finance Committee and is waiting to be
scheduled in the House Appropriations Committee.

HB17-1279 Construction Defect Actions Notice Vote Approval sponsored by Reps. Garnett
and Saine and Senators Tate and Guzman. The bill would require that a majority of a HOA’s
members approve the initiation of a legal complaint. The bill further mandates certain
disclosures to homeowners detailing the expected cost and time of pursuing a complaint and the
potential difficulty of selling their unit during a lawsuit. The bill is scheduled for a hearing at
1:30pm on March 29th in the House State Affairs Committee.
SB17-045 Construction Defect Claim Allocation of Defense Costs sponsored by Senators
Williams and Grantham and Reps. Wist and Duran. This is a bipartisan measure concerning a
requirement for the equitable allocation of the costs of defending a construction defect
claim. The bill is waiting to be scheduled in the Appropriations Committee.
SB17-156 Homeowners Association Construction Defect Lawsuit Approval Timelines
sponsored by Senator Hill and Rep. Wist. The bill is supported by the Homeownership
Opportunity Alliance, a large diverse coalition which has been leading the charge to change
Colorado Statutes as they pertain to construction litigation. The bill requires written consent of a
majority of homeowners in an association prior to initiating litigation, disclosure of the costs and
duration of litigation and a process for alternative dispute resolution. The proponents of SB17156 were disappointed that the Speaker referred the bill to the State Affairs Committee which
is commonly referred to as the “kill committee.” The bill is scheduled for a hearing on April
19th at 1:30pm.
BBMK continues to schedule and attend meetings with General Manager Genova to update
newly elected legislators on the District’s activities.

3
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: State Update Brandeberry McKenna (3100 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

BBMK is monitoring bills related to Construction Defects and has included them for Board
members interested in the issue.

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 30, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

March 29, 2017

Board Meeting Date: April 4, 2017

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update Squire Patton Boggs 4 4 17

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

1.C.3.a

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: APRIL 4, 2017

The Board had a very successful three days of meetings in Washington on March 14 – 16, during
which they met with senior officials from the US Department of Transportation, RTD’s
Congressional delegation, and staff of the authorizing and appropriations committees in both the
House and the Senate. A brief synopsis of these meetings follows below.
Federal Transit Administration: Board members and CEO Dave Genova met with Matt Welbes,
Executive Director, and FTA senior staff and discussed the following matters.


Dave Genova updated FTA on the four rail lines opened over 14 months, including
service on the A Line operating under an FRA waiver through April 30. He updated
FTA on progress RTD and DTP are making to bring the grade crossing gates’ activation
times down to the activation design time. Matt Welbes asked whether the P3 project
delivery method for the Eagle project has had any impacts on efforts to bring the A Line
into compliance with activation design times. Mr. Welbes was interested in any lessons
learned by RTD in this process. Dave Genova explained the performance components
of the availability payment to the private concessionaire and how the amount of that
payment has been reduced due to A Line performance.



Dave Genova also informed FTA that RTD had just submitted a letter to the FTA
regional office seeking an extension, until October 31, of the revenue service deadline in
the full funding grant agreement for the Eagle project, to accommodate the G Line’s
opening later this year.



Matt Welbes also reminded RTD of the deadline for certification of the State Safety
Oversight (SSO) agency, and stated that Colorado’s SSO should be more robust. RTD’s
grants could be affected if the SSO is not certified by the deadline. Dave Genova agreed
to help push the State to meet the SSO certification deadline and said he was confident
they would meet the deadline.



Matt Welbes also stated that the President’s budget proposal for New Starts projects
(which would eliminate funding for any new FFGAs) would initiate a robust discussion of
the role of the Federal government in funding public transportation, and he urged RTD
to participate in this discussion.

The Colorado Congressional Delegation: Board members and CEO Dave Genova met with
Senators Bennet and Gardner; Representatives Buck, Coffman, Perlmutter, and Polis; they also
met with the transportation staff member from Representative DeGette’s office.


Board members provided each Member of Congress with an update on the A Line and B
Line service and the grand opening of the R Line. Board members also requested the
support of each Member for RTD’s annual appropriations request for the Eagle P3
project. In several meetings, CEO Dave Genova also discussed progress being made to
under the FRA waiver to bring crossing activation times in line with design times on the
A and B lines



Each Member of the Congressional delegation expressed interest in supporting our Eagle
P3 funding request; Senator Gardner is considering sending a letter of support for the
1
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Federal Update Squire Patton Boggs 4 4 17 (3101 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Congressional and Agency Meetings during Washington Fly-In:

1.C.3.a



Representative Polis expressed that the delivery date of 2040 for the Northwest Rail
Corridor is unacceptable. He said voters have been paying for the NW Corridor since
2004 and that BRT is not a replacement for rail.



Representative Perlmutter expressed frustration with the delays in opening the G Line
and asked what “Plan B” will be should the delays continue. CEO Dave Genova
informed the Congressman that RTD will be seeking an extension of the FFGA revenue
service deadline to October 31, 2017. Rep. Perlmutter indicated that should RTD receive
the extension, this should also be the timeline to implement Plan B if the G Line is not
ready to begin revenue service by late October.

House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee: Board members and CEO Dave Genova
met with senior staff of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Highways and Transit
Subcommittee and Railroads Subcommittee.


Staff were very familiar with RTD’s Eagle P3 project and viewed RTD as a national
leader in transit project finance and public-private partnerships.



Staff were very interested in participating in a “Lessons Learned” debrief with CEO Dave
Genova and other RTD officials on April 3, 2017, when RTD officials are in
Washington, DC.

Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee: Board member Tina Francone met
with senior public transportation staff of the Senate Banking Committee.


Staff advised that they will be holding a roundtable on P3s, value capture, and transit
oriented development on April 20 and sought RTD’s views on this subject.



Like their House counterparts, Senate Banking Committee staff were very interested in
participating in a “Lessons Learned” debrief with CEO Dave Genova and other RTD
officials on April 3, 2017, when RTD officials are in Washington, DC.



Staff were particularly interested in hearing any recommendations for reforms, both in
programs and finance tools, that could advance projects more quickly or cost-effectively.

Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee: Board members and CEO Dave
Genova met with senior public transportation staff of the Senate Commerce Committee.


Staff were knowledgeable of RTD’s desire to be repaid the credit risk premium on its
RRIF loan. FRA’s policy has been that credit risk premiums will only be repaid once all
loans in a RRIF cohort have been repaid. FRA has broad discretion to define what loans
fall within each cohort, and FRA has recently determined that all RRIF loans belong to a
single cohort

2
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Federal Update Squire Patton Boggs 4 4 17 (3101 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

project to the Senate Appropriations Committee. Representative DeGette has agreed to
lead a multi-Member letter of support for the request to the House Appropriations
Committee.

1.C.3.a



Staff suggested working with Great Lakes Central Railroad (the only other entity with a
2010 RRIF loan) to advocate that FRA narrowly define cohort to those entities with
loans issued in a single fiscal year.



RTD’s $167 million appropriations request for the Eagle project for FY 2017 and $63
million appropriations request for the Eagle project for FY 2018; and



The strong ridership numbers of the A and B Lines.

Attachment: Federal Update Squire Patton Boggs 4 4 17 (3101 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

House and Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittees: Board members and CEO
Dave Genova met with senior staff of the House and Senate transportation appropriations
subcommittees, during which they briefed staff on:

3
Packet Pg. 12

