Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 4, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM
5:18 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Absent

5:29 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:01 PM
5:33 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:30 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:28 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk

Director, District M
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District O

Present
Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:03 PM
5:32 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:05 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Chair

Present

5:25 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:16 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett,
Garrett Christnacht, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Rick Fahlstedt, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Ali Imansepahi, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Heather McKillop,
Mike Meader, Brian Middleton, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Ken Claussen, Saundra Dowling, William Gross,
Tina McDonald, Joanna Morsicato, Roger Sherman, Vivian Stovall,
John Thompson, Joe Tripplett, Richard Valenty, Gary Van Dorn,
Megan Wagner, Tim Walker, Darcy Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, remarked that his written report was included in the
Government Relations board packet. He noted that the Metro Mayors would meet
tomorrow, and that there may be some interesting conversations from that meeting that
he would report to the Board next month.
Committee Chair Walker thanked Mr. Sherman for his local update and moved to the state
update.

• State Update - Brandeberry Mckenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry-McKenna (BBMK), stated that the end of the legislative
session was five weeks away. She said that there was an extended debate the previous
week in the House on the bipartisan transportation package. The transportation bill is, as
stated in BBMK’s report, very substantive and stands to change significantly having moved
to the second chamber. The bill has to go through two additional committees, and BBMK
predicts that there will be a number of amendments proposed in the Senate Transportation
Committee before moving on to the Finance Committee, where the bill will live or die. If
the bill does continue past the Finance Committee, BBMK speculates that it is very likely
that it will end up in a conference committee and will require significant compromises. As
the legislative session comes to a close, all of the big items are still unfinished, including
the budget. The long appropriations bill has left the Senate and is now in the House, the

Transportation Bill has left the House and is now in the Senate and there is also the
hospital provider fee bill. She said there is a lot left to be done at the end of the session,
and other transportation bills introduced have gone by the wayside. She noted that
everyone in transportation is trying to work through the bigger bill, which is HB17-1242
(HB1242).
Director Lubow asked about the initiative bill. She noted that she had not heard anything
mentioned about the possibility under its terms to use some of the funds to finish the rail
corridors.
Ms. Brandeberry stated that HB1242 is a referred measure to increase the sales tax
statewide. She said the sales tax increase would generate $700 million and $300+
million would be dedicated to the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) to bond
for infrastructure. She stated the remaining funds would flow back to the local
jurisdictions to use as they see fit.
Director Francone asked whether a portion of the sales tax revenue generated by HB1242
would go to CDOT, which has an appointed Board, to prioritize projects.
Ms. Brandeberry commented that CDOT has a list of how they prioritize projects and the
funds would be applied to the current process.
Director Francone questioned whether that process would usurp the RTD Board’s authority
to set policy and to prioritize rail and bus projects.
Ms. Brandeberry remarked that half of the money would be reserved for CDOT. The
remaining funds would not flow to RTD directly but would be given to the local
governments, and RTD can partner with them to prioritize projects.
General Manager Genova stated that the RTD Board has discretion over anything that
impacts RTD.
Director Anderson noted that the metro region does the planning for transportation and it
is important for RTD to be a part of that process. She inquired about the hospital provider
fee and if there has been any movement in that bill. She remarked that, if the fee is
removed from state revenue calculations under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR), there
would be more money for transportation and education.
Ms. Brandeberry stated that there is a Senate bill which was introduced by Senator
Sonnenberg that would cut the base spending by $670 million. That amount would be
offset by an enterprise mechanism for the hospital provider fee. It would also capture
some of the SB228 money that is dedicated for transportation, and that money could be
issued for Certificates of Participation (COP) for infrastructure. Because SB228 was
designed as two-thirds for transportation and one-third for capital, there is a potential for
additional capital projects to go towards COP’s and an additional piece that funds rural

schools. If the Sonnenberg bill passes the Senate, she said it would change significantly in
the House.
Director Broom asked if there were any urban renewal bills under consideration.
Ms. Brandeberry indicated that a bipartisan urban renewal bill was introduced the previous
day. She said the bill cleans up and clarifies some applicability issues that arose two years
earlier. She stated another bill is expected to be introduced that deals with downtown
development authorities.
Director Folska stated that there are a lot of numbers being provided, but CDOT needs $9
billion to finish their projects and FasTracks needs $2.2 billion. She asked how $700
million would get to the $11 billion needed in the near term.
Ms. Brandeberry commented that, if the sales tax were increased to the level proposed in
HB1242, it would generate $604 million a year for transportation. She stated that $375
million would be allocated for CDOT to leverage up to $3.5 billion in bond packages for
capital projects. Of the remaining funds, 70% would be allocated to cities and counties to
follow the existing distributions in current law and a portion of the remaining funds would
be allocated to a new multi-modal transportation options fund.
Director Folska asked if people in the northwest corridor could then bond to raise enough
funds to finish the northwest rail line.
Ms. Brandeberry noted that they could use the money how they wanted.
General Manager Genova stated that nothing would prevent local jurisdictions from pooling
their funds, but they would have to determine if doing so is practical and would need to
know the exact dollar amount.
Director Menten inquired about transportation initiatives that have been filed, the amount
of tax revenue they would raise, and a brief summarization of each.
Mr. Sherman commented that there are five that have been filed to date. He noted that
two are based on a $.005 sales tax increase with a 20-year sunset provision that would
generate $566 million and contemplate $150 million from the state general fund. The
distribution would also follow close to the distribution listed in HB1242. He stated that
two other initiatives are based on $.006 percent increase that would raise $685 million.
The main difference between the $.005 and $.006 is that $.006 does not contemplate
money coming from the state general fund. He said the fifth initiative was based on a full
cent increase and that it will not progress forward.
Director Menten asked what other entities besides the Independence Institute have filed
initiatives.

Ms. Brandeberry stated that she would provide the RTD Board with the list that has been
filed along with the schedule for the Title Board as it will cover every measure filed, not
just those for transportation. She noted that the effort to pass HB1242 has been serious.
Director Sisk inquired about SB17-153 (SB153). He noted that it has potential for RTD
and asked why RTD is not supporting it along with CDOT. He stated that SB153 would
provide rail service up and down the I-25 corridor and would be a great way to have
cooperation with CDOT because an RTD Board Member would sit on that commission.
Ms. Brandeberry noted that SB153 is up for committee next week in the House. She
stated that she thinks it will pass, regardless of whether RTD vocalizes its support for it.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, stated that three weeks earlier the General Manager,
members of the Board, and Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer,
traveled to Washington, D.C., to attend the APTA Legislative Conference. He noted that
those who attended the conference had very productive visits and were able to meet with
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), the state delegation, and several House and
Senate committees to provide updates for the University of Colorado A Line, G Line, and
appropriation requests for fiscal years 2017/2018. He added that the Railroad
Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan was discussed as well as the $28
million collateral refund that RTD is working to get refunded. He noted that the federal
government is still operating under a continuing resolution for fiscal year 2017. If the
continuing resolution is continued through the end of the fiscal year, which would end on
September 30th, RTD’s request of $167 million will not materialize and would instead be
$150 million, which was the funding level for the previous fiscal year. Squire Patton
Boggs hopes that the government can find a way by April 28th to finish the appropriations
bills for the current year. He commented that the House is optimistic but the Senate has
been caught up this week with the Supreme Court nomination process.
Mr. Dino added that five members of the House have signed off on RTD’s 2018
appropriations request, including Congressman Ken Buck from the 4th Congressional
District. He remarked that Congressman Jared Polis was heated in his advocacy for the
Northwest Rail and wanted it completed as soon as possible. He noted that the Secretary
of Transportation, Elaine Chao, indicated that the administration may publish an
infrastructure package or proposal in May. Lastly, Mr. Dino stated that the President
published his budget, which included a 13% cut to the Department of Transportation.
Two of the programs that would be eliminated would be the New Starts and
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grants.
Director Folska asked how the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) would be impacted, if at
all.

Mr. Dino commented that there should not be an impact to SERE as the project was fully
funded in the previous fiscal year.
General Manager Genova added that RTD had already received the funds so that extension
is in good shape.
Director Menten noted that Congressman Perlmutter commented about the opening of the
G line and a possible Plan B. She asked what his impression of RTD’s Plan B was.
General Manager Genova stated that Congressman Perlmutter’s Plan B would be to do
something different on the at-grade crossings. He added that he would have an update in
the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee with positive news.
Committee Chair Walker remarked that the City and County of Denver is going out for a
general obligation (GO) bond for $600 million and a large part of that would go towards
mobility and transit. He asked if there are other initiatives similar to that in the metro area.
Ms. Bradeberry stated that she is not aware of any in the metro area. She noted that
Grand Junction and Mesa County are considering doing something for mobility on the
western slope.
Mr. Sherman said that everyone is waiting to see what happens with HB1242 first.
Director Francone said part of the GO bond is based on Denver’s Transit Moves draft
report, which came out recently.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 2, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

