Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 4, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

January 4, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
January 4, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:

Committee Chair Brohl, Directors; Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer,
and Tobiassen, Chair Kemp

Directors
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Jesse Carter, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Kenn
Hardin, Bill Holmes, Cheryl Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent
Radcliff, Scott Reed, Janette Scarpino, and Bill Van Meter, Phil

Washington
Others Present:

Kristi Anderson, JH Anderson, Aurita Apodaca, Celina Banevez, Sandra
Bridges, Ericka Bridges, Deborah Bright, Karen Bowman, Ann Christopher,
Bill Christopher, Shelley Como, Delilah Collins, Dreico Collins, Chris Cruz,
Heidi Daly, Carl Daly, Myrna Daly, Selena Dunham, Renard Euell, Ortez
Fields, Charles Flax, Cecelia Garcia, Vincent Gilmore, Jake Gilmore, , Amy
Beth Herman, Gloria Holiday, Brandon Hoy, Lilyan Hoy, Kathy Hoy, Robert
Jackson, Timothy Jackson, Walter Jones, Alan Lee, Wendell Pryor, Herman
Malone, Jennifer Malpiede, Christopher Martinez, Ty Perry, Nicole Schroder,
Pastor Thomas, Marshall Vanderburg, Rhergan Washington, Michael Wise,
Stephanie Wonell

*******************************************************************
Call to Order:
Committee Chair Brohl called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
Director Brohl announced this will be her last time chairing this committee. She has
enjoyed working with all the staff and thanks them for the tremendous work that they do.
1. Recommended Action

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 4, 2011
Page 2 of 5



Fare Box Replacement Contract Award
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for the replacement of RTD’s fare boxes
to GFI, Inc. of Elk Grove Village, IL. in an amount not-to-exceed $10,500,000.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion for approval to
advance this action item before the full Board on
January 18 for approval.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tobiassen inquired about what other
cities are still using fareboxes. These continue
to be sources of problems for the bus operators.
Bruce Abel indicated the long term plan is to
move to cashless systems but this may be
awhile. We still have a number of transit
dependent riders who use cash. Phil
Washington added approximately $70-80K is
received daily in cash. Director Tobiassen asked
for an estimate of when the fareboxes would
disappear and GM Washington indicated ten
years (some way out in the future). Director
O’Boyle inquired if there is a market for old
fareboxes. Bruce Abel responded not really.
Director McMullen asked if this would replace
the number of different passes out there. Bruce
Abel responded not really. Director McMullen
expressed an interest in how we can simplify the
number of passes we have. Director Deadwyler
and Director Anderson concurred that we need
to simplify our fare structure.
Director Malpiede expressed thanks for staff
working with the non-profits and asked if they
will be able to use smart cards. Bruce Abel
responded they are working with non-profits
now to figure out how to utilize smart card
technology.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed 14 in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Riley, and Tayer) and 1 against (Tobiassen).

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 4, 2011
Page 3 of 5



Recommended May Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve moving the proposed May 2011 Service Changes (Attachment
A) on to public review and comment
Motion:
Director Bagley made the motion to approve
moving the proposed May 2011 service changes
to public hearing.
Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley inquired about the 2011 cost of
fuel and its potential impact. He stated he has
no intention of supporting adding back services
but feels any extra revenue should go to
increasing the reserve. Several Directors had
questions about specific routes which were
addressed by service planning. Director Daly
noted that as the 16 Street Mall shuttle services
expand this will have an estimated $570K
increase to an already concerned cost for the 16
Street Mall. He stated this is important that we
try to get the Downtown Denver partners to
partner with us on some of these costs.
A question was raised if there is capability to
shift buses to the market street station. Bruce
Abel responded a tentative yes. Director Brohl
inquired about the cross-town change, have
people become acclimated and what is the
status. Jeff Becker indicated they were holding
their own but they do not have any real data on
that today. They believe there are
improvements.

Vote on
The Motion:



The motion passed unanimously.

Parking Management Plan Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors amend the 2008 Parking Management Program, adopted in
August, 2008, to eliminate references to “automated accounts” and the 15%
discount associated with these accounts and, in the alternative, enable the
application of customer friendly internet and cell phone based payment systems as
they evolve over time.
Errol Stevens and Steve Pilon presented this item. Extensive discussion and
concerns were expressed around this item and an associated item that the current

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 4, 2011
Page 4 of 5

parking management signage and the way people have to register is confusing, not
user friendly or intuitive. While Director Brohl made the distinction that the box
they are voting on for this action item was different, Director Tayer felt they the
issue was interrelated and time needs to be taken to develop a customer focus
groups of users to develop a proposal on how to make this a more overall user
friendly system.
After prolonged discussion, Chair Kemp requested this item is tabled and requested
staff to come back with a better program that addresses all the issues and
concerns expressed around the parking management service.

2. Information Items
 Access-a-ride update—General Manager Washington indicated the bottom line of the
access-a-ride update is ridership is up and complaints are down. (See information
provided in Board package)
Director McMullen inquired for an explanation of why there appear to be significant
problems in route match. He shared an example where a person was picked up a
location X, taken in the opposite direction to location B to pick up another patron
before coming back to proceed to his destination. Bruce Abel and Larry Buter
indicated there are still some challenges to the route match software and other
factors that may play in the routing.
Bruce Abel discussed the ADA standards and that compliance states that it should
not take more than twice as long as fixed route. The objective of access-a-ride is to
group people and not make it a personal service. There is still some tweaking of the
system needed but the system has shown productivity improvements in ridership
and complaint levels.
Director Malpiede inquired about the 40% increase in careless driving. Larry Buter
responded this has to do with things like speed bumps etc., and they are working to
increase driver’s sensitivity to speed bump and other safety issues.
3. Other Matters
Director Daly recommended the Trailblazer as a tool for the Directors to see all the
information available to drivers-detailed analysis on routes, deadhead, layover, etc.
5. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 4, 2011
Page 5 of 5

