Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Crystal Tuggle, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 29, 2012

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 28,
2012 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D

****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker.
Director McMullen participated first via phone and arrived at 7:55
p.m.
Board Members
Absent:
Director Williams
Staff Present:
Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Libby Cox, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil,
Robert Rynerson, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins,
Nadine Lee, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug McLeod, Jerry
Nery, Clarence Pauls, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Julie
Skeen, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Crystal
Tuggle, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington and Brian Welch.
Others Present:
Ferd Belz-Manager-Union Station Alliance, Hadley Siegal - Student,
Sam Murphy-Student, Emily Given - DU student, Chris Cruz – Celina
Inc, Emily Green, Maria Garcia Berry-CRL, Lenna Kottke-VIA and
Rich Burns–VIA.
****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II. Status/Progress of DUS Historic Business Negotiations
General Manager Washington introduced this item and indicated that staff will
be providing regular updates to the Board. He then turned it over to Bill Sirois
who stated that RTD is working well with USA as a team. He indicated they

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 2 of 7
would share information on their discussions with Amtrak, request on the
$5M Faster grant, and that Ferd Belz, Manager of Union Station Alliance,
would discuss the stakeholder’s process and the historic tax credit. Bill shared
that Marla Lien had hired an outside counsel to assist in the negotiations for
DUS. USA has been working with Amtrak on the design including modifying
the plan to move Amtrak to the south wing of the building.
Marla Lien indicated there were two aspects of this discussion with Amtrak:
The first is a modified plan to move Amtrak to the south wing and the second
is a new lease agreement with Amtrak.
Ferd Belz shared they had held 4 public hearings with about 50-60 people
each. The majority of the participants were people who either lived or worked
downtown but there were a few who lived outside of downtown. In general,
there was lots of enthusiasm over the redevelopment. Participants were more
focused over having a facility they can use. They also held retail focus group
meetings of approximately 40-50 people each. Participants were more
concerned about having an active, living space inside and out, convenience
and quality food and beverage establishments. The Larimer group has received
an overwhelming response from potential tenants for this space.
Ferd explained that USA had an informal review with the local NPC and
Shippo relative to the historic tax credits. They received a consensus from
NPC and made an informal submission to the National Park Service from which
they hope to receive feedback in a couple of weeks.
USA has committed to a 26% DBE goal and is on target with this number.
They have extended their outreach through a number of minority councils.
They are also committed to the WIN program.
Director Tobiassen inquired about the process for checking baggage for DIA.
Bill Sirois indicated that DIA needs to provide a proposal. There’s
approximately 400 square feet available.
III. West Corridor Service Plan
Bruce Abel introduced his team of Jeff Becker, Service Manager and Robert
Rynerson, senior service planner. Jeff and Robert have been working the West
Corridor plan for sometimes with the initial draft of the plan completed by the
4th quarter of 2011. The second goal was to seek out the stakeholders input
involvement and the next plan is to go forward for the public input stage.
They do not require a decision from the Board tonight but would like to see
head nods that the Board was in agreement that they should move forward for
the public input stage.
Robert Rynerson provided a summary of the process that included looking at
the demographics such as population density, employment, ridership and
current bus routes to extrapolate potential travel patterns and needs. He

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 3 of 7
reviewed the routes where they anticipate high frequency (i.e. Federal to
Wadsworth), peak service and off peak service. He identified the routes that
are west of Wadsworth that they anticipate low traffic patterns and therefore
candidates for the call-n-ride service. He reviewed the anticipated distribution
plan with the goal to maximize ridership or distribute service to geographic
coverage.
Director Cohen, who represents the bulk of this district, stated that he
embraces most of his district that will be serviced by call-n-ride west of
Wadsworth. However, his concerns focus on preparation and communication
plans regarding how we plan to ramp up and train people on how to use the
call-n-ride service. This will be a drastic change and the users of this service
will need to be well trained. He is also concerned about the areas linking
Colfax and the West Corridor line that currently do not have sidewalk access.
This is a municipality issue but it will affect our plans for service and access
and could be a safety risk.
Jeff Becker and Bruce Abel emphasized the importance of starting the planning
cycle early which is why they want to go out for public input. Jeff Becker also
indicated we have experience with call-n-ride including some of our
experiences where we went from fixed routes to flex route to call-n-ride.
These changes for west of Colfax will be dramatic but not unprecedented.
Director Daly indicated there are users from the mountains who will need to be
part of this call-n-ride training experience. He asked about the regional bus
service that currently exists. Jeff Becker indicated that much of this service
(i.e. CX, EX) will continue. Director Daly requested a public hearing in
Evergreen and Conifer.
Director Anderson indicated she is an experiential learner and need to know
what is the best practice for call-n-ride. How do we maximize ridership on
call-n-ride? She does have a concern in using call-n-ride for such a large area.
Director Bagley inquired about the average number of call-n-ride vehicles. Jeff
Becker responded from 1-4. Director Bagley also inquired about who the
stakeholders were that had been involved. Robert responded local government
officials, property owners and the City and County of Denver.
Director Tobiassen inquired about how do you dispatch call-n-ride for everyday
coordination with LRT schedules. Jeff Becker indicated they would provide
more examples under the call-n-ride presentation.
Director Malpiede expressed concern over the cultural diversity for that area
west of Wadsworth. Many of these citizens have English as a Second
Language and may have a difficult time understanding the concept of call-nride as they transition from the fixed service. Jeff Becker explained that they
will be using various venues for education and training including TIC which

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 4 of 7
may have special representatives who can speak Spanish, etc, user translation
buttons, etc. This will be a key aspect of the planning.
Director Deadwyler expressed a concern for the access-a-ride users who could
be impacted as we transition from fixed route service to call-n-ride. Would this
make these users out-of service and therefore access-a-ride is not accessible
to them? What is our plan for the disabled as we evolve to call-n-ride service?
Bruce Abel responded these are important considerations which will need to be
considered. Call-n-ride is wheelchair accessible. One of the primary
differences is call-n-ride is limited to same area whereas access-a-ride is not.
They will be doing an impact analysis of this and will make a presentation later
to the Board. We may expect to see changes in travel behavior as
adjustments are made.
Chair Kemp asked for a show of support from the Board members for staff to
move forward in the next stage of the planning process which is the public
input.

IV. Call-n-Ride Coordination Study in Longmont
Bruce Abel referenced some of the updates on the call-n-ride study in
Longmont. Jeff Becker introduced Lenna Kottke and Rich Burns with VIA,
formerly Special Transit.
Jeff Becker reviewed some of the similarities and differences in details and
requirements between call-n-ride service and access-a-ride. He shared there are
service requirements for call-n-ride service such as number of boarding per
hour or the impact on cost subsidy. Director Tayer inquired about the cost for
call-n-ride service. Bruce Abel indicated about $50 per hour.
Director McMullen who arrived late to the meeting asked a number of
questions pertaining to the proposed call-n-ride service in Lakewood. He
reflected on the mountainous terrain and asked what do we do for service
during heavy snows. He also asked why some areas between Colfax and
Lakewood not receive any service.
Director Walker inquired about the residential impact of having call-n-ride
vehicles in the neighborhood. Brian Matthews responded that in a decade of
handling special services, he can only recall one call opposing call-n-ride.
These are clean and quiet vehicles.
Jeff Becker discussed the Longmont Coordination project with Special Transit.
He indicated this project took quite a bit of coordinator and expressed thanks
to VIA for their support during this process. He indicated the transition was an
evolutionary process with lots of barriers to overcome.
Chair Kemp thanked VIA for their support and participation.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 5 of 7
V. Local Government Liaison Work Plan
Sherry Ellebracht introduced Maria Garcia Berry and Roger Sherman of CRL as
the local government liaison team. The Board recognized CRL as an icon in the
community and is quite pleased that they are in this role. Roger Sherman
referred the work plan that had already been distributed and identified the six
main goals in this plan.
Director Hoy inquired about the coordination efforts and how can they keep the
Board members abreast of different activities in their communities. Sherry
indicated she is the coordination/touch point with the local government liaison.
Director Deadwyler expressed the same concern on how are Board members
kept abreast so that they do not get blindsided. Sherry responded that in
addition to the monthly meetings, we will work on how to best communicate
activities.
General Manager Washington made reference to a military term he called
actionable intelligence and suggested the focus may need to be more on this
than on any and all activity. One of the benefits that CRL brings to the table is
their vast knowledge and relationships locally, state and beyond.
Director James asked how do we measure the results of the efforts from the
local government liaison. There are synergies between some of the work being
performed by CRL and the Director’s community/organizational needs.
Sherry Ellebracht will make sure the Board members are properly informed.
VI. Northwest Corridor Options Update
Bill Van Meter provided this update. He indicated that Options 1 & 2 had not
changed and his focus will be on Option 3. Option 3 discussion included the
proposed capital improvements and the preliminary service plan. He shared the
RTD vision around BRT. Nadine Lee indicated the concept of using shoulders in
the event of traffic congestion.
Director Anderson requested a chart comparing Westminster service under
NWR and the BRT. She also asked for examples from Los Angeles of the type
of TOD development around BRT routes.
Director Malpiede asked if the stakeholders up north are OK with the plan.
VanMeter indicated the plan has been shared and at a staff level, some
concerns have been expressed. He is not aware of their discussion with
elected officials.
Director Daly inquired about how the “shoulder conceptual plan” would work
on the diagonal and what would the pedestrians use. Nadine Lee indicated
there are still details to be worked out but she envisions some type of
pedestrian bridge or separated access.
Director Bagley requested staff to provide an analogy with the Toronto Canada

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 6 of 7
model for BRT and TOD.
Director O’Boyle had questions pertaining to the use of prepay machines, would
this affect loading time and how would that be managed. Nadine indicated this
is an issue to be worked but they have discussed the possibility of having
separate loading zone areas.
Director McMullen asked if this was an evolution from where we started 8
years ago. Initial discussion was around BRT but that had been dismissed. He
thinks the BRT plan as presented looks good but right now his belief is we need
to deliver NWR as promised to the community. There is threat of bait and
switch.
Director Hoy asked if shoulders were tied into the NWR or if we could install
this concept right now independent of the NWR decision. General Manager
Washington indicated it is feasible but we would need further analysis.
Director Hoy also wanted to know if we can create bi-directional service now
since the plan from Denver and Boulder has not changed substantively. He
asked if staff can present the cost concept on rail at next week’s meeting.
Director Bagley stated we need to look at mobility rather than the mode. He
asked what the mode was up through 2004 to Boulder. Staff responded
commuter rail.
Director Cohen referred to a comment in the presentation on page 24
“consistent level of service, with no service reductions through 2025.” He
expressed concerns over the messaging and how constituents would construe
this timeframe. General Manager Washington indicated this is a dramatic shift
with the proposal that BRT will be complete in 2020. He had offered up the 5
years as a way for the service to come up to par before being subjected to the
annual service plan standards criteria. The risk is we will be running empty
busses in the wake of all the other efforts for sustainable services that the
Board has implemented.
General Counsel Marla Lien added her concern around commitment. Any final
plan adopted would affect future Board members. Is it appropriate for these
current Board members to make commitments that would tie the hands of
future Board members to act differently if necessary?
Director Tayer addressed the question asked earlier by Director Malpiede on the
reaction of the stakeholders up north. He believes there is consternation
especially when being asked to make a decision in one month after having
supported the original FasTracks plan (that includes NWR) for some time. The
issue of certainty is big. What is the commitment in terms of alignment and
service? How are we selling and messaging this solution as permanent or long
term? The NWR corridor is the only one being asked to turn on a dime—lots of
consternation.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 28, 2012
at 5:30 p.m. Page 7 of 7
Director O’Boyle expressed some concern on the messaging issues as well.
Director Hoy inquired if we will see any other options next week. General
Manager Washington indicated that staff will be providing one
recommendation. He commended the Board on the tough questions. This is a
real policy issue. As he sees it, staff has an obligation to present options to the
Board, especially in light of the new financial challenge with NWR. There is a
moral and financial obligation to go to the public. This shows a great deal of
courage and being fiscally responsible. RTD is still in a state of listening,
vetting, analyzing, etc.
Director Cohen agreed that RTD has a fiscal and moral obligation to let the
region know and to engage them in this decision. The issue is about viability
and economics. This region needs world class transit. Reality is perception.
We need to message this correctly and effectively.
Director Walker added this is a regional issue.
Chair Kemp summed this issue up by stating RTD is in a listening mode. We
must continue to listen. Everyone has a vision of completing FasTracks but
there must be some reality check. What is it? He used the analogy of when
his kid is growing up and dream of a corvette but in actuality, the parent can
only afford a pinto. The RTD Board is elected to look at the big picture and to
focus on how do we move FasTracks forward. What is best for the region? We
must be committed to making the decision that will ensure FasTracks can win.
Director Deadwyler asked why was the rush? We are doing our constituents a
disservice. We appear always in a “fastracks” mode. We need to take the
necessary time to hear from the larger populous.
Director Anderson explained that to some degree, RTD is under the constraints
of the state legislative body. This requires that our plan is approved by DRCOG
and the SB208 processes before we can move forward. DRCOG staff and
Board need to make a decision for financial review.
VII. Other Matters
Director Daly announced that the General Manager and Chair Kemp would be
meeting with Senator Brandon Shaffer and a group of Legislators from the
North on Thursday, 3/1/12. All Directors are invited to attend.
VIII. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 9:33 p.m.

