2024-06-24
Special Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon, everyone. I will now call the Monday, June 24, special Board meeting
to order. We are convened as of 4:33 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you for your patience. I would
respectfully ask everyone who has joined to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Before proceeding, I just would like to give a special shout-out and thank you to our Human Resources
team. We did have a new employee orientation planned here today. And thanks to their work, everything
was all set for us to have this meeting here. So thank you to the team for making that happen.
During today's meeting, we will also be providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. I will now call for the roll. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin has an excused absence, and the board sends our regards to
her.
SPEAKER 1: She's on the phone.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, I apologize.
SPEAKER 1: She's [INAUDIBLE], but she's listening.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin is here but listening in. Director Dishell? Director Dishell's on excused
absence. Second Vice Chair Guissinger? Excused absence. Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?

JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I am present. But, Mr. Chair, the CART link is not streaming.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. We'll check on that in a moment after roll call. Thank you, director. Director
Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: This is Chair Davidson. I am here. That is 13 directors present with two excused absent.
I'll just pause for a brief moment to check in with our Board Office Executive Manager Kroll, are we in touch
with Director Ruscha to get the CART stream working while we move to public comment?
JACK KROLL: Yes, we're sending that along now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Next is our public participation period, which is open to
anyone who would like to address the board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person
comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely.
For those attending in person, please come to the podium when your name is called. If you have not already
signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any additional
speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to raise your hand and have not already done so, please, you will
raise your virtual hand on Zoom or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to
speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, your comments can be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference
material for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office at the same email address
alluded to earlier.

Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. Speakers will have up to three minutes to
provide their comments. I see that we do have one speaker signed up for comment this evening. That is
Chris Nicholson. Chris Nicholson can please approach the podium. Once there, you will have three minutes.
AUDIENCE: Thank you, members, and Madam GM. I'm here today because you are being blamed for a
failure to maintain a state of good repair. I'm here to say that I don't hold you responsible for that because
decades of neglect cannot be repaired in a day.
I know, because I follow all of you, that this board and this agency has made getting to a state of good
repair a priority over the last four years. But where you have fallen down is in your ability to react efficiently
and communicate clearly when these deficiencies came to light.
It is not acceptable to play hide the ball with the press and the public while you determine what to say. It is
not acceptable for us to find out critical details from the press rather than the agency itself. And it is not
acceptable for it to happen with virtually no warning that a serious disruption was possible until it was put
in place.
People's daily lives depend on RTD. And in order to rebuild trust, you have to prioritize forthright, honest,
clear communication every single day. I know you all believe that. I ask you to recommit to it today. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. Do we have any other speakers in person
who have not signed up? OK. Seeing none, do we have any speakers online, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, at this time, I do not see anyone online who has raised their hand in
indication of their desire to provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Mr. Kroll, can you address whether there were emailed comments
for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: You did not receive any email comments in advance of today's meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
participation period at this time. There is one discussion item on the agenda this afternoon. This is with
regards to the Southeast Light Rail Corridor preventative maintenance.
I'd like to, first of all, start by thanking our entire team, AGM Jensen, General Manager and CEO Johnson,
and the whole team for working to pull this meeting together today to dialogue about the Southeast Light
Rail preventative maintenance. I'd also like to thank our team for continuing to work together to engage with
the media and communicate around what is occurring.
I think we'll have a good presentation here this evening, followed by, then, dialogue and discussion from
the directors. Thank you, everybody, for participating. At this time, I'm going to hand off to General Manager
and CEO Debra Johnson to please introduce and begin the presentation of this item. General manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening, or good afternoon, I should say, to
you and members of the board and to all who are assembled, both here in the Board room and virtually. As
introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. If we could pull up the presentation, that would
be fabulous.

So this evening I, along with my colleagues, Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
and Stuart Summers, the Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, are before you this evening to
discuss the Southeast Light Rail Corridor preventative maintenance to ensure an operationally safe transit
environment. If we could go to the next slide, please.
SPEAKER 2: Do what?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Next slide, please. No. Can we go back, please? Thank you. So I will present the
regulatory framework in which RTD operates as a public transit agency. Mr. Jensen will discuss the light
rail inspection, speed restrictions, and maintenance and repairs. And Mr. Summers will close out the
presentation with the agency's communication and outreach efforts that are underway. Next slide, please.
Next slide, please.
So to ground the Board for tonight's discussion, it is essential to outline the regulatory framework under
which RTD operates with respect to rail service delivery. As in this case, with all public transit agencies
delivering passenger rail service in the United States, RTD is regulated by federal oversight bodies within
the US Department of Transportation.
The Federal Transit Administration, or FTA, oversees light rail service, whereas the Federal Railroad
Administration, or FRA, oversees commuter rail. The slide before you delineates between the defining
service characteristics of those modes. For example, as defined, light rail consists travel shorter distances
between stations than commuter rail trains. Next slide, please.
So with the Federal Transit Administration, the FTA provides technical and financial assistance to local
public transportation systems. The federal government, through the FTA, provides financial assistance to
develop new transit systems and improve and maintain and operate existing systems.
Simply put, under Section 5307, this agency does receive dollars, federal funding, for preventative
maintenance. The FTA oversees grants to state and local transit providers, primarily through its 10 regional
offices. RTD, for example, operates within FTA's Region 8.
Transit providers within each region are responsible for managing their programs in accordance with federal
requirements. And the FTA is responsible for ensuring that grantees follow federal mandates, along with
statutory administrative requirements.
I would like to add, just this afternoon, we had a triennial review exit conference with the Federal Transit
Administration and their reviewers. And this agency actually received glowing remarks as it relates to our
adherence to those federal guidelines.
We have not received the final report, as this was the exit conference, but I just wanted to emphasize that.
And in relationship to transit asset management and our Public Transit Agency Safety Plan, we received
no deficiencies.
So while the FTA holds the regulatory authority for bus and light rail, the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission, or CPUC, serves as the FTA's designated state safety oversight agency within the state. The
Federal Railroad Administration was created to enable the safe, reliable, and efficient movement of people
and goods across the US.
The FRA has a range of authority governing railroad operations. Their authority, in terms of safety, was
further refined when Congress passed the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 in response to several fatal

rail accidents between 2002 and 2008. The Act directed the FTA to promulgate new regulations related to
areas of railroad safety, such as hours of service for railroad workers, positive train control implementation,
standards for track inspections, certification of locomotive conductors, and safety at highway-rail grade
crossings.
FRA's Office of Railroad Safety promotes and regulates safety throughout the nation's railroad industry.
The office focuses on the safety criteria, including grade crossings, hazardous materials, mode of power
and equipment, operating practices, signal and train control, and track.
FRA has nine safety management teams that serve as the Office of Railroad Safety's main liaison, with the
senior leadership of the nation's railroads. RTD's commuter rail operations are assigned to Safety
Management Team 7, which is qualified as being in commuter West.
RTD's commuter rail operations, as you are well aware, are unique in that they are defined in a
concessionaire agreement with Denver Transit Partners, which operates the A, B, and G Line. And the N
Line is directly operated by RTD. Next slide, please.
On July 19 of 2018, the FTA published the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan final rule, which
requires operators of public transportation systems that receive federal funds under the FTA's Urbanized
Area Formula Grants to develop safety plans that include the process and procedures to implement safety
management systems.
The PTAS final rule, which is 49 CFR, being code of Federal Regulations part 673, intends to improve
public transportation safety by guiding transit agencies to more effectively and proactively manage safety
risk within their systems. It requires certain recipients and subrecipients of FTA grants that operate public
transportation to develop and implement safety plans that establish processes and procedures to support
the implementation of Safety Management System, or what we refer to as SMS.
SMS is a comprehensive, collaborative approach to managing safety. It brings management and labor
together to control risk better, detect and correct safety problems earlier, share and analyze safety data
more effectively, and measure safety performance more precisely.
Each year, the agency reviews and updates its Public Transportation Agency Plan, the PTAS, which is first
approved by the Joint Labor Management and Safety Committee, then this Board prior to its submission to
the Colorado Public Utilities Commission for final approval. Next slide, please.
The FTA requires agencies that own, operate, or manage capital assets used to provide public
transportation and services federal financial assistance under 49 USC Chapter 53 as a recipient or a
subrecipient to develop a Transit Asset Management Plan, or what we call a TAM.
An agency's TAM Plan should outline how people, processes, and tools come together to address asset
management policies and goals, provide accountability and visibility for furthering understanding of
leveraging asset management practices, support planning, budgeting, and communications to internal and
external stakeholders. Each transit provider must also designate an accountable executive-- that's 49 CFR
62.5-- to ensure appropriate resources for implementing the agency's TAM Plan and the Transit Agency
Safety Plan.
In RTD's case, the General Manager and CEO serves as the designated accountable executive. More than
$9 billion in fixed assets are included in RTD's TAM plan, which serves as a blueprint to extend the design
as built life of those assets.

Each year, RTD submits its TAM plan to FTA's region 8, the Metropolitan Planning Organization, which, in
this region, is DRCOG and CDOT, for incorporation into the State Transportation Improvement Program,
or the STIP, and the Transportation Improvement Program. So keep in mind that the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission does not have auspices over the Transit Asset Management Plan.
So with that, recognizing I laid out the regulatory framework, I will now yield the floor to Mr. Jensen to touch
upon the light rail inspections, our preventative maintenance program as a whole, and other elements as
described in my opening remarks. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair and members of the Board. Mr. Jensen,
the floor is yours.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I am Dave Jensen, the Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations. And
I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak with you this evening about this subject. I'd like to take a
step back, possibly, to lay a little bit more groundwork on the situation that's before us now. And that began
with the Corrective Action Plan that was put in place relevant to the 19th and Stout track.
And in that corrective action, certain items were identified whereby we found that we could do things in a
more proactive manner. So rather than waiting until there were problems, rather than waiting until there
was a catastrophic event, there were steps that could be taken to get us ahead of things.
And so the development and implementation of that Corrective Action Plan led us to here. And it is what
we are doing now. We've transitioned from being reactive to being proactive. And I hope to be able to
explain that to you this evening to gain a greater understanding of how we're ahead of things now, whereby,
in the past, we may have waited until failure before reacting.
And so part of that corrective action required us, or what we decided was the best course of action was to
reevaluate and re-implement and enhance our inspection process, primarily for state of good repair
purposes, but, secondarily, for defect and problems or issues that would need to be addressed. So when
we're doing inspections, those are the elements that we're looking for.
So we've got an expected life-- or there's an end-of-life expectancy-- timeline on our assets that we're
looking for to see whether or not we're going to achieve that. And then we have to plan to be able to replace
those assets prior to them failing. And the way that we go about that now, what we've adopted, which is
new for us, is an age-minus-wear philosophy.
And what that simply is is we know what the lifespan is. We compare that to the condition, see whether or
not there's premature wear. And then we use that to help us to be more predictive in the way that we do
our asset management planning so that we can replace our assets prior to failure.
In addition to that, we've adopted a new inspection methodology to help us to identify defects in the track
that are predictive in nature to get us to a point where we are resolving those issues before they turn into
problems. And it's a regular part of operations. So in our division, it's the Light Rail Maintenance of Way
Division that's doing this work. And it's part of the work that they do.
So a very high level. What we're doing now is that every 90 days, the entire light rail network is being
inspected to an extent far greater than what was in the past. So in the past, what we would do with just
track alone-- and then, just for numbers' sake, in case you're doing the math, we've got roughly a 60-mile
network for light rail. But it's double track, so that's 120 miles of track. It's also 120 miles of overhead wire.
All of it needs to be inspected.

What we did in the past was we would check the entire corridor once a week. And so, thereby, in a quarter,
or in 90 days, we would have it done three or four times. Now what we're doing is we are riding a hi-rail
vehicle-- we'll talk more about that, I think, in a little bit-- twice weekly and walking the entire alignment once
every 90 days.
So the level and the depth of the inspections is far beyond what we were doing in the past. Getting that
knowledge and then documenting that brings us to a place where we can be much stronger in our predictive
abilities as it relates to inspections, asset management, and then defects.
Part of what we did, too, in addition to that methodology, was we adopted the APTA track standards, which
we did not adopt prior to this. What we had was RTD's internally developed Track Standard Manual. It was
modeled after a number of other track standards, APTA being part of that, FRA standards being part of
that.
But it was our own internal inspection manual, also approved and audited by the state regulator. But the
APTA standard being more robust, our decision was to adopt that. So we've committed to follow the APTA
standard for track inspections.
And in the APTA standard, what we discovered when we implemented it for the first time was defects that
required a restriction. And so because we committed to this standard, and it's part of our values to be
forthright and trustworthy, to do what we say when we say we're going to do it, we made a commitment,
and we're keeping it. It is us being proactive. I'll talk more about the defects that we found, and we'll get into
more detail, I think, a little bit about the methodology.
One of the things that I would point out, as well, in the documentation is when we were doing inspections
and we were filling out inspection reports, there may have been hundreds of data points that were being
tracked. Today, there are thousands. And so what that's going to do-- and not only do we have thousands
of them, we're getting a higher level of detail.
Before, our track inspections were a pass/fail. Is the track safe to operate on based on the criteria set forth
for that? We would decide. We would go out, and we would do that inspection. And yes, it was safe to
operate on. And we would operate on it. Or no, it wasn't. And then we would shut that track down.
Today, we've got a 5-point system where we're determining the rate of wear, along with different factors,
that are giving us. So we can rate premature wear on the rail and then go back in in 90 days and do another
assessment of that exact same defect in that exact same location and determine what that rate of wear is.
And over the course of time, that's going to help us to be more predictive. So that's what we're doing.
I want to take a step back, too. And I don't know how well you can see that track on that picture on the right.
But if you look at the track, what we will look at is we will look at the subsurface. We will look at where the
rocks are. We call ballast.
We'll look at the ties. We'll look at the rail. We'll look at the fasteners. We'll look at the gauge, which is the
distance between the tracks. So we'll go into an in-depth look at the track system.
And if you see that track system there, an expert who's been trained in track can tell you whether or not it's
safe. They can tell you whether or not it's been moving. They can tell you whether or not there's problems
with the subgrade, the subsurface. And so, looking at that through a layman's eyes, we just see railroad
tracks. But to an expert, they're looking at all the intimate detail of it.

So again, we've got trained staff. The APTA standards details out what the requirements are for our staff
to have in order to be able to do inspections. I spoke earlier about the traveling inspections-- I'll use that
term-- on hi-rail vehicles, which is a truck that have train wheels on it. And we operate that at no more than
15 miles an hour.
If it's straight level track, if it's a grade crossing, or there's switches, we'll do 5 miles an hour. And that gives
us a high-level view of whether or not there's any significant anomalies that we need to go back and look
at. And we can sweep the entire system that way. So we are doing that. And then we document that process
and/or go back and look at things that might be a concern to us.
The last bullet point I would highlight, as well, is that we're not finished in the development of this. As time
goes on and our skills develop, we believe that we will be able to evolve and provide even better results in
the future.
So in May, this last May, we implemented this new process for the first time. And I might take a step back
and say that it took an extended period for us to develop this. In fact, the manual that we're using right now
is on its 13th revision. And I'm sorry?
AUDIENCE: Since May?
DAVE JENSEN: Since early last year-- I want to say last fall. So when we decided this was the direction
we were going, we've worked on it. We've tried it. We've trained on it. And it takes time for us to be able to
get to the point where we are. The deadline for us to have this completed is June 30. We're ahead of
schedule but meeting it.
And so when we went out with this new set of eyes and this new methodology and this new process, we
found defects, some of which were cosmetic, some of which are defects that need to be addressed. I would
say, again, if you look at the track, when we're looking at the track, the track is safe.
I can't overemphasize that enough. The subsurface is stable. The ties are stable. The track itself is stable.
The base of the rail that's attached to the ties, the web of the rail, there's no anomalies on that.
What we found predominantly-- there were other defects that we found, but the one that's causing us the
greatest angst in this situation we're referring to as rail burns. And typically, rail burns are developed through
either sliding or slipping of a wheel on top of the rail. And that leaves a mark on top of the rail.
The APTA standard requires us, if that measures, at its longest distance, 3 inches, we've got to put in some
mitigations. And what we've done is we've put a 10 mile an hour restriction on those. And now we're
repairing them. And essentially, that's the biggest crux of the issue.
But just, again, the track is not unsafe. The 10 mile an hour restriction goes in place in this situation because,
left alone, without intervention, they could, at some point, develop a crack and then, over time, could
develop a break. And that's what we're trying to prevent.
So when I say that we're ahead of it, we're not waiting for the rail to break before we do something. We're
being proactive. We're identifying an issue. And we're resolving it and fixing it now, before it turns into a
problem where the track breaks. So that's where we're at.

And we did have some idea that there were rail burns. But our past practices did not require us, nor did we
go to the extent that we are now, by measuring and documenting everything and following the APTA
guidelines. So we didn't know the extent of the problem.
I might-- I hope this comes across the right way-- but I might liken it to if we went through a hailstorm, you
might suspect that you might have hail damage on your roof. But until you get a qualified inspector on the
roof looking at every part of it, then you can determine that there actually are defects that need to be
rectified. And that's what we did.
And there's a picture there on the right of what we're seeing and what I just described in terms of, left alone,
they could turn into cracks, could turn into breaks. And then that would be the problem.
So in terms of speed restrictions, they are typically a track condition where a train would be going slower
than it normally would. And there's multiple reasons why that might be the case. It could be a track condition.
Typically, it is a situation where the track is still structurally fine, but train speed over-- could be ride quality.
It feels like you hit the train hard. It bounces too much. Or it's a condition that continued speed on that
situation will make matters worse, which is what we're dealing with now.
And I would remind all of you of the significant amount of train travel that we have daily over our tracks.
Some of these corridors, and this corridor, in particular, we have 750 train trips over that every day. So
there's a lot of train traffic that's going over these tracks. And so it's imperative for us to be on top of that.
And it is commonly used in the railroad industry. I want to say, without overemphasizing it, that every railroad
in the country has speed restrictions. They've got provisions for being able to implement them. It's part of
the business that we do. I might point to agencies because I know there's been conversation about Boston.
And we've got, I believe, still a link to Boston's system on our website. They're dealing with that same
problem.
We've been in touch with other agencies, like Seattle. A couple of weeks ago, when I was at the rail
conference in Cleveland, when I was riding the train to the airport, we stopped on the train. The operator
makes an announcement, said, we're going to be delayed here for a minute while we wait for a train ahead
of us to clear.
So I look out the front window. And I watched them running single-track operation as a train on the same
track crossed over and cleared. And when we went by that section of track, what it clearly appeared that
they were doing was full-depth rail replacement.
It is done in the industry. The issue at hand for us is, strategically, how are we implementing this? When
are we implementing it? And, again, I'd like to emphasize that we've worked really hard to get to a place
where we're not reactive.
The track right now that we're talking about, we're replacing it as a mitigation. But it's structurally sound.
We don't have to do a full-depth replacement to this area like the downtown area. This is not the same
thing.
And this is us being proactive, resolving issues. And we're setting a baseline. We've just adopted this new
process. And so we know that there's going to be some hiccups along the way, and there's going to be
some strain. And we feel that, as well. Nobody wants to provide high-quality service more than all of us
here in this room. And that's what we're working towards.

But if we don't take this action, we will get to a point where there is a critical failure, and even more
inconvenience will happen. So I know this is really hard. And we're working very diligently at service
delivery. But again, left alone, it will get worse. And that's what we're not going to let happen now.
And I would give examples that, since I've been here at RTD, and in my past life properties, we've had
speed restrictions issued. I don't want to say all the time, every time, all day, but it hasn't been uncommon.
It's just the magnitude and the timing.
And this is that perfect storm where the location that we found-- which, by the way, it was due. That's why
we went there, because it was due inspection, and we didn't want to miss our time, our preventative
maintenance time. So we had to go there. And it is that perfect storm, which is why the impact of it is so
significant to us.
I believe if you've been on our website, this should be familiar to you of what the locations are. We have
been diligently working on this, trying to resolve. We have lifted the restriction between Belleview and
Orchard for southbound trains. We're on the cusp of doing that northbound.
I will get to the schedule, and we'll talk about that a little bit more. We've suffered a couple of delays already.
Weather-related delays are going to be a problem for us. So if there's rain or lightning, that's going to delay
the crews. They won't be able to work in that environment.
We pulled the work crews off the alignment for concerts last night. We anticipated being able to get the
northbound track between Belleview and Orchard resolved. But last night, there was a fire at 13th. And so
the fire department shut us down. We had to run single track around that. And what that required us to do
was pull our crews that would have been working on that to go throw switches, to run trains over by 13th.
And so those delays, we know that will occur. We're trying to build that into our schedule as we're developing
that. But we are diligently working every single night to try and resolve this. There's a couple of methods
that we're using.
And in the larger areas, it's faster and easier for us just to replace the rail. So we're cutting the rail out, and
we're putting new rail in in places. That requires us, then, once that new rail is in, is to make sure that it's
got appropriate profile, that it's set in properly and in place, and it's safe to be operating on.
We can also grind, which, like a sander on top of-- if you would imagine an electric sander, we can grind if
it's just the top. One of the measurements that we've taken on those is not just the length of it but the depth
of it. And so right now, we might be taking different action if there was actually a groove being dug into the
rail, which, right now, there's not. The measurements on depth are negligible.
And we've gone and analyzed that. We've taken pieces of rail. We've cut it. We've looked at it in-house to
see what the condition of the rail is. And right now, the depth is negligible. So grinding it off, it's a mitigation
for us that we have available to us.
And then just a reminder, really, that we will adhere to the highest levels of safety standards, even when
the results impact schedule. We won't compromise safety. And you can rest assured if, at any time, the
track is unsafe, we will stop service. We won't operate on it. But this track is safe right now to operate over.
So we talked a little bit about the maintenance and repairs. I'll try and get through this quickly if I can. So
they're currently already underway. Slow zones have already been put in. We will resume train speeds. As
soon as we can lift the restrictions, we will do that.

So while we know this section that we've inspected, it's going to get better, there are other areas we do
have to inspect. And we may have to put restrictions in those areas. And then we'll attack those. And we'll
get those cleaned up. It's a big maintenance project for us. But we will get this resolved, and we will get the
track fixed.
Again, I'm very reluctant, and I've been saying publicly that I don't want to make a promise that I can't keep- so I'm very reluctant to put dates up there. Because there's no float in that right now. So if everything goes
absolutely perfect, I'm very confident that we can make significant progress, if not complete altogether, the
southeast corridor by September.
But if you look at the dates on the board, if we were to allow-- which is our project dates, date line, is roughly
two weeks per section between stations-- we could be done in August. But again, I'm publicly very reluctant
to make promises we can't keep. And so I think there has to be an understanding that delays will occur.
And we will notify the Board. We will provide updates as soon as we can, as soon as we know that there's
been delays, so that we're being as transparent as we can with the schedule of when we think we can get
this completed. And now it's my pleasure to pass it on to Stuart Summers.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you, Dave. Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer.
I want to talk a little bit about the communications and outreach efforts that have been undertaken over the
last approximately two weeks.
So first and foremost, as soon as the incident speed restrictions were put into place on that Tuesday, June
4, service alerts went out that afternoon. Phone calls were put into place. And then we started engaging
with the media to ensure that the community was well aware, and our customers were well aware, of the
situation.
We're all very familiar with customer care. That is our call center. Agents have been taking hundreds of
calls, helping customers, assisting customers with trip planning. We have a very robust alternative bus route
map that agents are using to navigate customers to other options if the rail network isn't going to work in
the time that they expect.
We also have our Next Ride app. Obviously, we're familiar with options for trip planning, understanding the
delays and disruptions, and then also being able to see the trains in real time and see where they're at and
how they're moving through the system.
And then the last thing that's been heavily utilized over the last couple of weeks is we've had a number of
customers reach out to us on social media asking for specific information about where they're at and how
they can navigate the system. And so this has been very helpful for us to, in real time, respond to comments
and messages that we receive on social media and be able to provide that assistance to customers.
I'm also happy to report about the Impact Team. We've talked about our Impact Team in this room before.
When we developed the Impact Team and launched it last month, it wasn't envisioned that we would be
utilizing the team in this manner at this time, but I'm glad we had it in place.
And so what we've been doing is we've added additional schedules for Impact Team members. We have
approximately 40 of these employees that are going out across the system. We've prioritized their
scheduling to be along the E, H, and R lines to assist customers at impacted stations. I mentioned we've
added additional shifts.

And right now, what we're focused on, especially with the hot weather that we're experiencing, we have
water bottles and water stations. And we're just out there at some of these hotter times of day to try and
assist customers that are waiting and then be able to provide those real-time updates.
All of you should be very well familiar with our Speed Restrictions web page. This launched on June 11.
We've had more than 6,000 web views in the last seven days. We've widely promoted this, both internally
and externally. This is the source of truth. We're trying to point all media, customers, stakeholders, anyone
within the community, to go to this web page.
As questions are coming in, we're putting the answers to those questions on this web page, as well,
because we want everyone to have the same access to the same information. We're putting up new videos
all the time. Every single day, including weekends, this page is updated. And so we went through a major
update on Saturday this past weekend and then again yesterday, on Sunday.
We have a digital awareness campaign that is also underway. It launched on Friday, June 14. So we have
assets that are available in English and Spanish. We're rolling out these assets across social media,
YouTube, programmatic ads on Metro-area web pages, really trying to provide accurate information, dispel
rumors, eliminate confusion, and really point people to accurate schedule information so that they can utilize
the system and be successful in their trips.
We've also been doing extensive media relations. As of Friday, we had 75-plus media inquiries. We're
probably up closer to 85, almost 90, really trying to answer a lot of questions from the media, back to
dispelling some of those rumors, correcting facts, ensuring that everybody has accurate information about
the situation.
We've held two media events, on June 14 and June 21, at Belleview Station and Orchard Stations,
respectively. We had fantastic attendance from the media at both of those events. A lot of coverage has
been out there about this situation. And then we've provided a lot of news releases and fact sheets and
talking points to ensure that reporters, members of the media, and stakeholders are well aware of the
situation, as well.
Mr. Jensen alluded to this, but I just want to emphasize that every 48 hours, we're providing a track repair
update on the web page. And so we just uploaded the most recent one about an hour and a half ago. It's
similar to-- it's the report that we send to the PUC.
We also have updated timelines. There's a table on there that reflects the schedule. It was updated again
today. So as the situation changes, we want to make sure that we're providing those real-time updates.
And then, as speed restrictions are lifted, we're updating the impact map.
And back to that digital campaign we have underway, those assets are regularly updated, as well. So as
speed restrictions are lifted, we're updating that information in our digital campaign to ensure that the
information is accurate in real time. And with that, we'll stand for questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I appreciate it a great deal. Thank you for this presentation,
General Manager and CEO Johnson, AGM Jensen, and Mr. Summers. This was very helpful to understand.
I'd also like to thank the team for their responsiveness over the past few weeks here-- some late nights,
early mornings-- and appreciate the move to transparency. Certainly appreciate, Mr. Summers, the move
to increase public transparency around not only what our updates are but the updates and communications
between RTD and the PUC.

I know I have some questions. I know many of my fellow directors have questions. So I'll start with those
who have their hands raised here. Then we'll move to online hands. I'll start with Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Jensen, go back, if you would, to packet page 18,
PowerPoint 14. Just a couple of questions in regard to the photo of the wheel burn graphic.
So when this is spotted, what type of extensive repair is done? And is it done overnight or in several nights?
Is this severe enough of a situation where that link is removed? Or I'm just curious how that's remedied and
how long that process takes, for example. And is this, as a follow-up, the most prevalent issue that you're
finding?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: I think I'll answer the last. It's the most prevalent, yes.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: And the process is, once that's been identified, we'll go in and measure it to determine
how urgent it is for us to take action. So right now, the problem that we have is that we've got a number of
them that are over 3 inches. And so that requires a speed restriction. And so we're trying to mitigate those
first.
So depending on the size of it, depending on where it is, we might grind it out. So we may take a grinder
out and try to grind that. Depending on the size of it, again, that might take us a couple of hours. Or it could
take us an evening, depending on the size of it. But we've got multi crews.
If we've got one in one spot, which is the case, then one in another and one in another, it's easier for us,
rather than grind, just to replace the rail in that location. And so what we're doing is we're bringing out new
rail to the location.
And when we get to one section between stations, the first step that we're doing, so far, is bringing rail and
staging it there so that we have rail on hand in the event that it's decided, let's just replace the rail here. It's
going to take us too long to grind this out. We can replace the rail.
And it'll take us a day, a night, for sure, depending on the location, just to get the rail staged, and then
another night to cut the rail and replace it. So it really depends on the extent of it. And so while we've got
one crew that's replacing pieces of rail-- I don't want to give the impression. I think there was some
misunderstanding initially, at first, that the entire rail between stations was bad.
That's not the case. It's a spot here and a spot there and a spot here. So that's, really, the mitigation. And
while one crew is working on that rail replacement, another crew might be working on grinding. The picture
that you see here, those measurements, that's likely a spot we would grind out, not likely replace, depending
on whether or not there was another one close by.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Thank you very much. So there's no speedometers for riders to check the speed
of light rail or commuter rail. 10 mile an hour is painfully slow, as we understand. But these vehicles are not
moving at the speed of commuter rail, by any means. What is the optimum speed, generally, in these kinds
of areas?

DAVE JENSEN: Light rail could do 55 miles an hour between stations on the open right of way. But I'd have
to-- each spot, if there's a curve, or on approach to stations, we're doing 15 in the station. But it's 55 mile
an hour maximum on light rail.
TROY WHITMORE: And if you're used to that, that's a significant drop-off. So I certainly understand that.
OK, one other question, if I can, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Fine.
TROY WHITMORE: Going over to packet, page 26, slide 22, it's your timeline. This is, from what I can
glean from your presentation, really best-case scenario.
DAVE JENSEN: If everything goes perfect.
TROY WHITMORE: Say that again.
DAVE JENSEN: If everything goes perfect.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. That's all for now.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just want to ground us in the fact that we have to keep in mind what our maintenance
window is. And in order to do work, we have to de-energize power. So when we talk about the time period
that we're actually out there-- we're grinding, or we're cutting and replacing rail-- that is a very small window.
While we talk about we're shutting down the network from 11:00 PM to 5:00, we have to keep in mind that
we have to get trains off of the right of way, get them back to the yard. And in order to do that, we can't start
work until every train is off that rail network, and it's de-energized.
So we're roughly talking about not a six-hour window that's out there. Because we are staging, and we're
getting crews in place. We're talking about a really small window. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody
garnered that understanding.
And to the point that you raised, Director Whitmore, about this optimal timeline, we are being very cognizant
of what we say due to the fact, last night, there was a fire. And we had to redirect crews. When we were
out at the station on Friday waiting for the train, because we did take the train, we experienced those delays,
as well, and saw the lightning.
And so what happened was the crews that were on the right of way, quite naturally, had to cease the work
that they were doing. It was separate from the work we're talking about here. But all of those different
elements come into play. So I just wanted to ensure that I amplified that for everybody's understanding.
Thank you very much for the opportunity to do so.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Move now to Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. So I've got a few questions. And they're all over the place. So obviously, you
brought in some new processes here. How is that affecting our people power? I know we've already been
struggling with that. And how are we dealing with that situation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may. That's a great question. Thank you for asking that. Our HR Department
has done a wonderful job of helping us. So the Maintenance of Way Department, I know you've heard Ms.
Johnson indicate that it's not just train operators. It's MOW. It's Maintenance of Way.
Skilled laborer, those are the hardest positions for us to find. The track department and our rail laborers are
doing a lot of this heavy lifting. And we've seen significant increases in our labor force in that specific
classification. It is more work. And so it is more time-consuming. And so that is challenging for us. But it's
the best course of action.
Future for us is, really, evaluating that workload and then doing some analysis on the number of people
that, actually, we need to be able to-- but right now, we're keeping-- well, with the situation, a little bit aside,
we are keeping up with the workload. And right now, it's third shift and overtime that's doing this work. So
we still have first and second shifts that are able to do that other work.
IAN HARWICK: Got it. And then that thinking about, now that we have these new processes to view the
rail, almost, practically, daily, it seems like, once we have-- let's say we do finish-- everything goes perfect- we finish in August, what does this look like moving forward? How frequently do you anticipate needing
to do this on a smaller scale in the upcoming months or years? Does that make sense?
DAVE JENSEN: It does. So I think we need to level set, and we need to really find out what the condition
of the entire alignment is as it relates to this. And so we still have the southwest corridor we've got to do.
We still have to do the 225 corridor. The rest of it has been done.
So there'll be a strong push for us to resolve these defects that we're finding then. And then it'll be an
ongoing process. I wouldn't expect there to be much significant scope like this. Because we're going in and
cleaning this up now.
But maintenance on a railroad, on a legacy railroad, is ongoing. It's always going to be that way. But what
we're trying to do now is get ahead of it and minimize it, minimize the impact for the long term.
IAN HARWICK: And my last question is-- and I'm just a nerd for science, so I'm just curious-- have we
thought about, and maybe in version 20 of the book, thought about utilizing AI to analyze the data or work
that into, potentially, even being able to film the tracks and be able to do that on a real-time basis, instead
of having somebody out there?
And again, I get that we may not even be having this conversation yet. But I more just want to be thinking
about, How do we imagine this for the future?
DAVE JENSEN: We've had-- Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.

DAVE JENSEN: We've had no specific conversations about AI, but we're always looking at new
technologies to try and improve our processes. And I anticipate that that will take place as new technology
becomes available and we become aware of it. And I would anticipate us incorporating new technology.
IAN HARWICK: Cool. I'm done. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I appreciate this really thorough and good explanation and rationale
for the current inspection and maintenance program. And I also appreciate my fellow board members'
questions. I just have one quick question. And also, I feel compelled to make a comment, as well.
The quick question is, initially, I think there was mention of lack of availability of rail. Has that been resolved?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may? I think-- I would have to go back into statements-- I think it was
availability of maintenance crews. We've got rail on hand. We are ordering more as part of our normal
process.
Right now, we've got rail. But without knowing what the entire scope will be after all of the inspections are
done, we can then evaluate it against what we have in stock at that point. But the availability of rail is not
an issue. It's been personnel.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And my comments. Again, no one questions a commitment to safety for
our riders, our employees, and our system. And we really appreciate it. And you have really spelled out
what the situation is tonight.
However, it's been belated. I recall in the May-- when we were discussing the May 2024 service changes
that there was some question of would maintenance require shutting down all the light rail systems at 11
o'clock? And then that was adjusted.
So it appears to me that this was looming back then, as well, that staff was thinking, we are heading into
the unknown here when we do these inspections. Is that true?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen, please.
DAVE JENSEN: Not the way, exactly, that you're saying it. No, we didn't anticipate this. But what we do
need, as Ms. Johnson spelled out earlier, is we need a larger work window overnight. We have to have an
ongoing maintenance program sufficient so that we can do work on and inspect 120 miles of track and 120
miles of wire.
And so our inability to have longer periods of time over an expanded period makes it really challenging for
us to be able to do in-depth work. And that's really the focus of what that was about was preventative
maintenance, not this specific situation. We didn't know this was coming.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And I appreciate your comment, Director Sloan. And just to orient us,
as Mr. Jensen alluded to when I was talking about the maintenance window, I think it's important to

recognize that here, in this agency, that we have been oftentimes resistant to shutting down the railroad for
maintenance work because of the situation that we're enduring now.
And I believe it's been exacerbated to the point that Mr. Jensen touched upon. Some of these elements we
have to get into place. And recognizing that we leverage the APTA standards in May, when we talked about
a service window, that was just in generalities, recognizing that we only have one operational maintenance
yard.
And basically, the furthest, if I'm not mistaken, takes us, like, 78 minutes in reference to clearing the railroad
to get back to our Elati Maintenance Facility. So recognizing that in and of itself, there's a lot of things that
we did-- woulda, coulda, shoulda-- about value engineering. But we don't have ample pocket track here.
What I mean by pocket track-- generally, you could stack trains in a certain area. So case in point, while
we're doing these speed restrictions, when we became too delayed, we could pull out a train and have them
ready to go to fill in that gap.
We don't have that mechanism here. So we are operating to the best of our ability within the confines of
the network that have been designed for operational purposes. And so I just wanted to further state that,
as it relates to the maintenance window-- because really and truly, as we think about what it is that we have
to do by traversing the track and going back to Elati takes away the time in which we have to do viable
work.
And so it's a prolonged period of time. But I do appreciate your comments. They haven't fallen upon deaf
ears. So thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And again, Mr. Summers, you have tried every avenue to reach our
customers. And I really appreciate that. But that, too, was a step a little bit late. And I think we all know that
disruption of service of this type, particularly speed restrictions, may be common. But this is on top of the
Coping Panels Project.
So to customers, it's not a mere inconvenience that requires patience on their part. It could threaten their
livelihoods and turn family routines into chaos. So please continue your efforts to let people know what is
happening. You're doing a great job at this point. Thank you. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you for the answers. I'll move next to Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity. And thank you very
much for the report, Mr. Jensen, Ms. Johnson, and Mr. Summers. Very helpful to have this information
available, not only to the board but to the public so that people know exactly what is the situation, how are
we responding, and what is our best professional estimate of when we will have a conclusion to this.
And I know that part of the goal in a situation like this is to under-promise and overdeliver. So we hope that
we'll be able to see overdelivery on some of this. I do have a question. Because I know that careful readers
of this PowerPoint will end up noting this, and I want to give you the opportunity to comment on it here.
In referring to slide number 17, which is found on packet page 21, there is a description about the central
corridor and replacing rail and installing joint bars. And then there's a reference to the southeast corridor,
specifically the segment from Yale to Southmoor. And the work in 2023 was to replace track sections.

Then, of course, if you turn to the next page, which is slide 18, packet page 22, you will see that the image
reflects work to be done on the slowdown zone number 1 between Yale and Southmoor, the section that
was addressed in 2023.
Now, specifically, I understand that the section from Yale to Southmoor, we're looking at potential rail
replacement. And on the prior slide, we talked about replacing track sections. So I'm wondering if you can
give us a distinction between those two. Because otherwise, I think the observer would say, wait a minute.
You just fixed this last year, and now you've got to fix it again? So can you respond to that rhetorical
question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, if I followed. So correct me if I get off track.
[GROANING]
It wouldn't have been-- he meant it-- it wouldn't have been the exact same. So that other section between
Yale and Southmoor, there's a spot-- we're not talking about the entire section. That's the thing. And it might
be semantics. And we'll talk about that to clear that up. If we're replacing rail or track, it's, essentially, the
same process, pulling out the rail and putting new rail in.
But there was a different spot that was troubling us. It was developing a heat kink. At the risk of
overcomplicating what could be a simple matter, with our track, one of the things that plays a significant
factor is the weather here because we get such extremes. So it's steel. And so it contracts in the winter,
and it expands in the summer. And it's got to be able to withstand all of it.
If there's too much rail and, as it expands in the summer, that steel has to go somewhere. And so it will
push out at the weakest point. And that'll create a kink. That's what we were struggling with last year.
So the solution to that is to cut that small piece out, replace it with another piece of rail that's smaller, weld
it, and de-stress it so that it's good. So these are different defects and different locations, essentially, I think
my might answer your question, I hope.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: So I do understand that. And I thank you. And as I say, I wasn't certain whether the use
of the phrase "replaced track sections" meant something different than rail. Because up above, it talked
about, on central corridor, replaced rail.
But what I understand is, along that section from Yale to Southmoor, last year, there was a different problem
that was found. And that problem was addressed and fixed with a replacement of a portion of rail. We did
not, at that time, notice this rail burn problem that we have now noticed in that same track section. And I'm
wondering whether that rail burn could have developed between last year and now, or is it something that
we really just weren't looking for and, therefore, didn't address last year?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?

DEBRA JOHNSON: It's likely a combination of-- likely, the rail burns, some of which are new-- we're going
to do a deep dive to really understand what's happening. But if it's not posing any immediate threat, the old
process would not have required us to make any intervention.
Not being on that crew and not checking their inspections, I can't say certainly. But I think, anecdotally, the
track crew was doing inspections already. And so it's likely they had some idea that there were anomalies
going on, none of which required immediate action. Today, though, with the new adopted methodology, it
does.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Jensen.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. I'll briefly just state, for the sake of the record, that I was informed
we were joined by Second Vice Chair Guissinger, who has dialed in by phone. So thank you, Director. I'll
now move to our next in-person director with hand raised. That's Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, chair. Our bus fleet, as well as our individual cars, all have computer systems in
them for maintenance purposes. Does the light rail operator have a check engine light? Or do you have the
ability to find problems ahead of time so that you can talk to the shop when he comes in to deal with
individual problems?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: As far as what-- the train does not detect rail conditions. So there's nothing like that that
exists, although to Director Harwick's earlier question about technology, we will pursue that as it relates to
the rail. The trains do provide some information to the train operator about if there's a problem with the train
itself. But it's 1990s technology.
BOB BROOM: But it's not [INAUDIBLE]?
DAVE JENSEN: So it's much-BOB BROOM: It would seem to me like that's something that should be pursued by the industry. I'm sure
we're not the only one that have been surprised like this. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, gentlemen, for this presentation. I have a lot of
questions but, obviously, can't go through them all. I guess walk me-- I guess we're looking at this from a
10,000-feet view of different aspects, different plans that we're utilizing, different inspection regimes.
Walk me through how you go through a section of rail. So you come upon it through your regular inspection.
And you're looking at it. You see, let's say, a burn or a chip or something. Walk me through exactly what
you do next. So you look at it. You say, OK, this is a burn. It requires this procedure. Is there any sort of
technological testing that is done on stress?
Tell me what the process is all the way, including communication to the trains as to, do we slow down? Do
we not slow down? Do we replace, not replace? Obviously, you don't want to go through many years of
your experience of what you do, but just give me an idea of the process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?

DAVE JENSEN: Thank you for that question. It's a big one. So the immediate-- if somebody is walking the
track is what I'm hearing you ask, and they encounter a defect, they'll do an immediate assessment. And
the assessment, really, is severity-based. So how bad is it? Does it need immediate attention? Does it need
a restriction? Is it safe to operate trains on?
And so in this case, where it doesn't require immediate intervention, if the person is equipped-- and, likely,
they are-- they may measure it and mark it. And so we'll geocode that. So we'll know where that spot is so
that we can go back and look and see, OK, what are the mitigations for us to be able to do that?
If it's a situation that requires a restriction, the notification is made to the control center. And they tell them
the exact parameters of where those restrictions should be. So they'll call that in. The track crew, the
maintenance crew, they're the ones who will determine what the speed limit is. They'll inform the OCC, the
control center.
The control center then puts it on our operating board. Every operator has a board that tells them the
condition of the track, of the entire railroad, every day. It's a living document as conditions change. The
controller will put out an order to all of the trains and give them an order and give them the parameters-- for
example, all trains in the system, we're going to go 10 miles an hour between here and there-- and then
get an acknowledgment from all of the trains.
Every train operator will then report back. I understand that I've got to go 10 miles an hour between here
and there. Speed limit signs will be placed. And then we're recording that location. They'll go back to their
supervisor. They'll evaluate the situation and determine the best strategy for mitigation. Is that too high
level? Does that answer your question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And if it requires the replacement of the track, then that's the next step, potentially, if
it's like, OK, we really do need to do that? And then so trains might be diverted to a single track? Or what
happens in order to replace that section?
DAVE JENSEN: If we can't mitigate it-- typically, we reduce speed because it's the first thing that we can
do. But there are other mitigations we can do. And we're doing that now. So let's say that there was a crack,
hypothetically, on the track. We can put joint bars, which are steel bars that we can attach to the side of the
rail, which will make sure that it doesn't move and hold it steady.
So we can operate with joint bars on the side of the track with a crack in, it if it's small, under a speed
restriction until we've decided, Is that something that can be spot welded? Or is the crack such that it would
just be better for us just to cut that out and replace it? And so, typically, those decisions are being made by
management collectively. What's the best course of action in that situation?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then, in terms of-- so, obviously, I'm monitoring social media. And I see a photo
on there from June 20. And I don't really-- obviously, you're the expert here. But there's a photo of well,
there's some wires. And then there's a chip of sorts on this rail. I'm assuming that you've seen that photo
and-- OK.
All right. Anyway, I don't-- I'll show it to you later. But needless to say-- and then-- so Mr. Summers, in terms
of some of the media contacts, we've seen some reports of folks who are reporting on this.
Are we also following up with some of those folks who have made reports, whether it's TV, radio, print
media, online media, and saying, OK, I know you did this report. I'm now going to fill you in. And I'm sorry.
I'm not trying to tell you your job. I'm just trying to follow up here.

Because as I talk to people in the community, they're like, oh, yeah, I saw this report the previous day or
what have you, or last night. And I just want to make sure we're following up with these folks who are, really,
opinion leaders in the community, as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Summers?
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. A couple things. So every day, we go through what we call
our media clippings. So that could be newspaper, radio, or television, blog, anything that mentions RTD.
And the team goes through to confirm factual information, check for inaccuracies, errors, things that maybe
have been misreported that we need to follow up on.
So we've been doing that very extensively over the last couple of weeks, especially early on, there were a
lot of reports saying it was the entire light rail system. All trains were running 10 miles per hour across all
lines. So those were some things that we quickly wanted to make sure that we followed up with those
reporters and those agencies, or those news outlets.
I can tell you that we have great relationships with all of our media partners. And so, as we correct
information, provide additional background, we've had great success in helping them to understand the
situation.
Just like it is for all of you, it's a very complex situation. And it's hard for a reporter that's just covering it for
that one day, and tomorrow, they're going to go cover something else, to try and understand how to frame
a story in 500, 800 words or under two minutes on a newscast.
And so what we've tried to do is be very proactive with almost a bulleted list of, here are the high-level
things that we want to make sure that you're aware of. And then we're happy to address your questions as
a follow-up.
But we carefully track all those inquiries to make sure if we need to correct any information. And then we
also have our list of everyone that's covered these stories, so we can follow up with those reporters.
And we invited any reporter that has covered this story in any capacity to the media event we had last
Friday. And so that was another touch point. We want to make sure that those that have been covering the
story, following it, asking for information, that they were also specifically invited to the event last Friday with
a phone call.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And perhaps this is a better question for the General Manager. And
perhaps, gentleman, you can respond. In regards to the PUC, so there's been various correspondence
back and forth between the General Manager and the PUC.
So my question is regards to the relationship between RTD and Madam General Manager. You said you're
the main contact between RTD and the PUC. So what is that relationship like? What is our conversations
back and forth with them?
Because we've seen correspondence. And, I guess, also giving you this opportunity to say something that
they maybe did not state to its greatest extent, that maybe, perhaps, the PUC mischaracterized something
that you'd like to clarify. Obviously, there's a lot there. I'm just saying, maybe just discuss a little bit for us
our interactions with the PUC? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the question. As a point
of clarification, I did not state that I was the contact for the PUC. I stated that I'm the accountable executive.
I'm the accountable executive for the regulatory agencies in which we partner with relative to our federal
designation.
In the audience, we do have Dan McClain, who serves as our Chief Safety Officer. He coordinates with the
Public Utilities Commission as it relates to their responsibility in this instance is delegated in federal statute
as the state safety oversight agency.
I have recurring meetings with the deputy director of the Public Utilities Commission. [INAUDIBLE] the letter
in which we received from Ms. Rebecca White. She serves as the director of the-- what is it, DORA? It's
the PUC. However, we're dealing with staff. And I meet with Dr. Fischhaber, who serves, really, as the point
person relative to safety oversight. I meet with her on a quarterly basis.
Our staff have a good working relationship with the Public Utilities Commission. I think, if anything, in
reference to the correspondence that was disseminated on January 14, we were taken aback by the nature
of said correspondence that was transmitted. I firmly believe that that letter was already formulated prior to
us having meetings.
I, personally, had a meeting earlier in the week. The date escapes me right now. I think it was January-sorry, June 11. It was a Monday in which Mr. Jensen and I had a conversation with Dr. Fischhaber. I could
ask Mr. McClain, in a moment, to speak more specifically about the regular coordination that we have.
I believe, if anything, relative to some things that were cited in the correspondence, it seemed to perhaps
not convey our adherence to the notification standards pursuant to the PUC rules, which was hyperlinked
in the response to the PUC that I disseminated. Because there was some misunderstanding, I believe, in
reference to what would constitute a notification to the PUC.
Preventative maintenance-- as I indicated, we receive federal dollars under Section 5307 for such activities.
And we would not have a Maintenance of Way work unit if, in fact, we weren't doing preventative
maintenance. So this is part and parcel of what one does on a daily basis in operating a comprehensive
rail network.
Then, more specifically as it relates to the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan and assertions that
were made relative to the state of our rail network, I do think that that was a missed opportunity in
relationship to not totally understanding what the Public Transit Agency Safety Plan constitutes, recognizing
that we do have a safety management system, of which the PUC approved that report, as indicated. And
then, more specifically, as it relates to auspices over the Transit Asset Management Plan, that is purely a
function that's overseen by the Federal Transit Administration. Hence, that's why we disseminate that to
the regional office. So with that, Mr. McClain, do you have anything that you would like to further add?
DAN MCCLAIN: I think [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, sir.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. I'll hold my questions and move to those directors that are online,
starting with Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I have a couple questions. This is mainly my district, so
just be patient with me. So the first one-- and my questions are going to be regarding service delivery. So
it said in slide 18 on the presentation, "Staff is evaluating potential operational adjustments to improve
service delivery and performance." What are those potential operational adjustments?
DAVE JENSEN: I'd like to take that question, Mr. Chair, if I may.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I was going to start, just really quickly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that, as we talk about service delivery, we do have the opportunity
three times per year to look at our schedules as it relates to service change. And in doing so, what we're
trying to garner is a better understanding as we go forward where there might be opportunities to manage
the riding public's expectations.
Going back to a point in which Director Sloan had made relative to the service change that was implemented
in May, recognizing that we did talk about a maintenance window, once you put something in a schedule,
then people could adhere to set schedule. And then they have a better understanding of the commitment
that we made as it relates to service delivery.
So that is the framing that I would like to provide specifically as it relates to "Staff is evaluating potential
operational adjustments to improve service delivery." It's very analogous to what we did as related to the
Coping Panel Project last year, whereby we incorporated those critical elements into the schedule as we
have gone forward. And so with that, I'll yield the floor to Mr. Jensen to speak more specifically. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: And I apologize. I was looking at the slides to get the correct reference. So a couple of
things, specifically, to note is that the E Line, in particular, is feeling the brunt of this the most, as might
seem obvious, maybe, to some but maybe not others, as both speed restrictions and the Coping Panel
Project go through-- the E Line has to go through all of it, whereby the R Line does not. Neither does the
H. And so their schedules, while they're delayed, are not nearly suffering as bad as the E Line.
So a couple of things that we've discussed and, actually, experimented with and tried-- primarily, there's no
way for us to get the trains through the restrictions or the single-track area faster. But what was happening
initially was the trains' delays were cascading throughout the day.
So we've made an effort to prevent that from happening. And the way we do that is by introducing an extra
train in the system. And so what happens is-- and we've timed it. I was just looking at the Superintendent
of Service Delivery sent me an email this afternoon as we're studying what's happening to the trains and
whether or not there's mitigations we can implement.
And there's a significant difference between certain operators getting through. There are certain
circumstances. So the two trains that we looked at, one train arrived at its destination 23 minutes late.
Another train going through the same corridor immediately after it arrived nine minutes late. So we're trying
to dig in to figure out what exactly happened with that.

Some of that is the train meet at single track. So if a train doesn't have to wait to enter single track and goes
right through, it significantly improves its time. But if there's another train on single track operating the
opposite direction and that opposing train has to wait, it's going to cost it time.
And so what happens is, theoretically, if a train arrives 25 minutes late, we've built in layover time to absorb
the delays that would be inevitable in any single-track operation. But that layover time is right around that
20-, 25-minute time period.
So if a train is later than that, then what happens is the operator has to get to the end of the line. We have
to turn the train at the-- so it takes time. The operator needs a break. We allow them appropriate respite.
And then the train leaves.
So that train might leave Union Station, for instance, it might leave five or 10 minutes past its scheduled
departure and then take more delays making its way back to Ridgegate, which then makes it even later out
of Ridgegate and so on and so forth.
If we can drop a train back on the following train-- we're losing a headway, essentially. So if we drop a train
on the following train schedule, we can, at least, protect the terminal departures from each end. And so that
way, the customers then-- we can be more reliable.
At least if they expect the 5:38 out of Ridgegate, there's a train that's leaving at 5:38, or as close to that as
possible. So our massaging the system with trains is our attempt to try and maximize the accuracy of the
terminal departures, knowing that they're going to be delayed mid-round.
We have sat down with service and planning. We have had some discussions. If we were to add time to
the schedule now, by the time we got the schedule written and bid out and implemented, we could be out
of this. We could be getting close to September by then and getting that new run pick, the new runboard,
implemented.
But we have had discussions about what it would take. I've not received yet an evaluation of how much
additional time we could put into the train schedule. But if we were to do that, it definitely would require
more operators and more trains. And then the concern we would have is the single-track operation.
The more trains we put into the system for single track, the more likely they are to get clogged up at single
track and take even further delays. So there's a delicate balance that we're trying to find to optimize what
is a very challenging and difficult situation.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Apologies for my ignorance on this. Are bus bridges just not a solution?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Bouquet, for the question. I think it basically ties into
what Mr. Jensen was saying. As we look at where we are, we have services in those areas. We have bus
routes. And I know that Mr. Summers and his team have been communicating out bus routes that operate
in parallel.

For us to dedicate resources from a bus perspective, utilizing additional operators, we really don't have the
ability to do so when we are looking at our routine service delivery going forward. Because, to the point
about the trains backing up, we don't have enough buses nor operators to make that a viable option as we
go forward, recognizing that they are slow orders within certain segments of which we don't necessarily
know what the impact will be.
And let me just give a quick example. If, in fact, you were traveling down a major street and they were doing
some repaving, oftentimes, what we're doing here, which is an alignment with single track, is that you may
have cars queued up with a flagger out. And you're waiting for the northbound traffic to clear before the
southbound traffic could go.
And so when you think about that, in all certainty, the viability of putting resources to bridge that gap, no
pun intended, is not a good return on investment as we go forward for what we're dealing with in this
instance.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: This will be my final question. Then I have a comment after. I guess the question would
be, the E Line, like has been mentioned, is, by far, the one getting hit the hardest. It's going through two of
the slowdown zones that I see on the map.
How much average time is getting added to someone who's having to go through the entire duration of
riding from Union to Lincoln-- or, excuse me, from Union to Ridgegate or vice versa? Do we have
information of how much extra commuting time is getting added to someone's average commute if they're
doing the entire E Line route?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Remembering that this is an average and everybody's experience might be different, it's
varying between 30- and 40-minute delay time from Ridgegate to Union Station.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Final comment. I guess, as we're all aware, riders just want to-- if we give a why-- and,
obviously, we, as an agency, are focusing saying, this is the major concerns is what it comes down to.
Safety is always the utmost importance. And from the presentation, hopefully, the public is understanding
that we're trying to be proactive to this instead of reactive to something that would be a safety concern in
the future.
It's frustrating. It is very frustrating for riders. And us being able to just give the why of, hey, this is what is
happening, this is why it's happening, that's, ultimately, what matters. And again, as mentioned, like it says
on slide 18 and you addressed, Mr. Jensen, having it explained-- here are the solutions we're trying to
provide forward with it when it comes down to, hey, if I'm trying to get to Ridgegate, and I'm trying to get to
Union Station, 30- to 40-minute delay is significant, especially on a daily commute.
So again, making sure that we're communicating, making sure that we give the why of why is this ultimately
going on. I think we've been doing a good job of it. But also, at the same time, making sure that we are
empathetic to those who are going through that 30- to 40-minute delay, on average, if not longer, that's
what matters the most. So thank you very much.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm a little old-fashioned, so I grade things by letters. But as far as
the safety is concerned, I think we're doing an A-plus. I don't think anybody's asked us to stop doing what
we're doing. So I think we spend way too much time on that subject.
As far as communication, I think we're a B-plus. We have some improvements to be made. But I'm still
going to stick to my guns on contingency plan to protect riders. In fact, I think we're an F.
I just don't understand how we can leave the riders out there that we've challenged in the last two or three
years to get on the train, to give up their car, to use mass transit. And then, when things get like this, we
just abandon them.
So saying that I've got two questions. It has been said that this is a legacy railroad, and this is going to
happen again. So I'm curious, getting back to the runboard, when I think of runboard, I don't think of train
versus bus. I think of us as one team. So I'm curious of what changes we could make to the September
runboard in order to keep a reserve of bus drivers so we could create these bus bridges for future projects.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Lewis. A point of
clarification. We are not a legacy system. There are eight legacy systems that are in this country, and we
are not one. We are, basically, a new railroad.
And what we mean by a legacy system, we're talking about the Massachusetts Bay Transportation
Authority, which is a legacy system. We're talking about the San Francisco Municipal Transit Agency. We're
talking about New York Transit. We're talking about those railroads that were in existence prior to World
War II. So I just want to educate and inform everybody, so there's not any misconception. I believe Mr.
Jensen.
JAIME LEWIS: I'm just quoting one of your staffers.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I understand that. And I believe that Mr. Jensen was saying, as we look at the rail from
a legacy vantage point, recognizing legacy systems that we have in place circa 1990. So I just am clarifying
that for all those that are listening.
And so as we talk about what it is that we're doing relative to our service delivery when we look at bus and
rail, that's something we're working towards. Because we do, here at this agency, oftentimes do not
approach things with the one RTD approach, recognizing that we are hiring bus operators, and we do have
service delivery options that we need to deliver. We are doing our ultimate best in reference to retaining
individuals because I think that is critically important.
So when we talk about what might we do with the service changes, we basically have been going out. I just
received updates today that we received more than 50 comments so far with our online forums relative to
specific routes and specific lines. So we will assess that going forward before we bring recommendations
relative to what might be an optimal service plan for the fall that will be in place until January.
And so to answer your question more specifically, when we talk about looking at what might be beneficial
for the network, we have to ensure that we are leveraging the resources that we have readily available. We
need to ensure that we're providing services for the routes that we have.

And going back to the question which was posed by Director Bouquet when he asked about bus bridging,
I think this is the same element. There is the potential that we could assess greater throughput on buses
relative to routes that are running in parallel with the impacted line.
However, we do anticipate that we would be through this preventative maintenance mitigation relative to
the speed restrictions at that time. And as we look at maintenance windows going forward, as indicated in
previous comments, that is what we are doing collectively relative to what might we do for adjustments in
building in additional time to manage customers' expectations. So the schedule is keeping in hand with the
commitment in which we make by presenting a schedule to the mass public. Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: --as well, maybe, to clarify a couple of points. What I want to convey is that doing
maintenance and finding defects will be an ongoing thing. And we will repair those, and we will be getting
ahead of it. That will be an ongoing part of our business.
The magnitude of this specific situation, however, I wouldn't anticipate. Because the large scale of the slow
zones-- we had that conversation-- we will get ahead of that. But the Coping Panel Project and the
downtown reconstruction all at the same time is a significant event. We will be finished with the Coping
Panel Project this year. And so I don't anticipate us having a situation entirely like this again.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I just want to reiterate by implementing some board changes this September, there's
going to be a need for additional drivers. I'm asking you to consider saving those drivers for incidences like
this. Because we can't say this will happen again and then turn around and add more service to the system
to require more drivers and then be in this situation again.
My second question, has it been considered-- and I know the answer because you've answered Mr.
Bouquet-- but have you considered a bus bridge between Belleview and Ridgegate in order to get them
over to either the Englewood, Oxford, or Littleton Station? I know that's still a long ride. But at least the
people could depend on a bus picking them up at a certain time and getting them over to a track that doesn't
have these issues at this time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General manager and CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. Director Lewis, if I'm not mistaken, I believe when you were talking
about the board, you're talking about extra board? Am I correct in my assumption?
JAIME LEWIS: Correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Correct, OK. So just something I want to share. So our colleagues that are represented
bid on work. And so based upon what they bid upon, we do have extra board operators. In this instance,
we don't have the optimal extra board operators that we would like.
As relates to the consideration of a bus bridge, it gets back to the point, as you indicated relative to the
question posed by Treasurer Bouquet that, in this instance, that may not be optimal as we look at where
we are with the availability of operators and what work that they have bid upon. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JAIME LEWIS: And one last question. And I appreciate it. Have you had any contact with the ATU?
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager/CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, we have had contact with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 that
represents RTD employees. There have been conversations that have ensued relative to leveraging other
unionized employees that may be working on the N Line to help us complement the work that's been done
on the southeast corridor.
So quite naturally, when we have service mitigations, these are the type of issues that we do discuss with
our partners. Thank you. Mr. Jensen, let me yield the floor. Do you have any further information you'd like
to add?
DAVE JENSEN: The only thing I would add is that it's been collaborative in nature. And there's been no-the union has not been resistant in any way but have made suggestions to try and help and improve the
situation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: That's all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, director. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have some questions, and I put them in categories. So if you don't
mind, may I just go ahead and proceed?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Please, go ahead. I'll call on the staff that unmutes here in the room. Go ahead,
Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. OK, so the first, it's, kind of, a comment. So I'm pleased to see that we
have more information on our public-facing website. I know you're getting a lot of inquiries. And this is a
major improvement from where we were just a couple of weeks ago.
But I do think we need to be careful about our language. And at least as it relates to what we've heard
tonight and the APTA standards I'm looking at right now on my computer, what we're talking about in the
southeast corridor is wheel burn, which is generally caused by wheel slippage.
So please interrupt me if I'm wrong, but if not, I'm going to continue. And I don't see any hands waving at
me. So recognizing that, per publicly available PUC records-- and those are our quarterly reports that were
released about the same time that all of this came down-- there was a derailment in January in the same
area we're talking about now that was caused by a wheel breaking off.
So it, I think, is a logical question for folks to ask if the two-- first, could the two be related? And then,
second, the report that is on the PUC website says there was damage to that light rail vehicle. Did we also
notice damage to the track?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director, Ruscha, I apologize for interrupting. I'd like to call on our General Counsel
Snyder at this time, who's unmuted and raised her hand.

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So Director Ruscha,
thank you for your question. I just want to caution that anything related to a light rail accident investigation
is confidential under the PUC's statute and regulations.
And I'm happy to speak with you specifically about the question that you're asking about, but I'm going to
caution staff and ask them not to respond to that question, given that it has to do with an accident
investigation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I would just point out for the record, I referenced and paraphrased
things that are publicly available. So they're not confidential at this juncture. And I was asking an
engineering question. But if counsel does not want staff to answer the question, we can just carry on. I'll
respect that.
And actually, I think I was interrupted in the middle of my second question. I'll state my question for the
record, and we can continue if counsel doesn't want staff to respond. Because the question was, Was there
damage to the track? For example, did we notice any flattening or wheel burn post-accident? But I'll go
ahead.
And just moving on to how we got here and how we adopted these standards, I'd like to get some
clarification on when those standards were adopted. And this was noted to the press almost immediately
when these slowdown zones occurred. And we've talked about it just now. This is also related to the 19th
and Stout CAPs, which, again, this is publicly available information.
So in the October 2023 report to the PUC, we stated that, as of May 2023, which was a little over a year
ago, that we adopted those standards and called them an industry standard. But the word that we used
specifically, or the phrase, was RTD adopts.
And adopts is the present tense, which may be why I'm a bit confused. But so could staff explain, How did
we adopt a standard in May of 2023, October of 2023, and May of 2024?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: If I'm following the question properly, we may have made a decision to adopt-- and I would
have to check the record just to make sure I'm accurate-- in October the APTA standard. But then, again,
that whole process of writing the inspection methodology.
Again, the Corrective Action Plan requires us to be completed with this by June 30. And so the intent was
always to have the APTA standard. But the implementation-- and, again, maybe it's a matter of semantics,
which we can work on being clear about-- but the adoption of the APTA standards is what we implemented
in May.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director, Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Do you mind if I just dialogue for speed?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director, I'll just continue to call on people. Because there are some staff members that
are changing order. So if it's OK, I'll just continue to call on those in the room, Director.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. I respect that. So I heard, Mr. Jensen, that the Corrective Action Plan
required that to be completed by June 30 of this year. So I did see that. And I heard that.
What I think my confusion is that in the, again, publicly available reports that have also been linked in the
press that we said that that CAP, that adoption, was completed in May of 2023. And I'm not a real expert,
but if I just look at the standard, which is readily available online on APTA's website, there's language
referencing not just what to do, like what corrective action needs to be done when something is seen or
known, but, also, that includes the frequency at which we would be inspecting track.
So that is-- I'll stop there. But again, I just go back to my original question. We said that this CAP was
completed one year ago. And it said "RTD adopts." So maybe there's a verb tense question, that RTD
adopts the standard we've been referencing.
And I understand maybe we need to figure out an implementation schedule or do some training. But if we
know that that is probably going to require additional predictive maintenance measures-- more specifically,
more frequent inspection of the track-- I guess, again, I'm not sure at what point did we adopt the standards?
Because it's noted, again, three times in two different documents that we've adopted the standards.
So sorry if I'm just asking the same question again, but I just wanted to provide context for that question
and why I'm having a difficulty understanding staff's answer. If we could just give it one more stab, I would
appreciate it, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Again, I think the commitment to adopt the standards were made previous. The
implementation-- I think it's semantics, the implementation of it. We've not even submitted our final
paperwork on the CAP yet with the PUC, which we intend to do on time.
So it took time for us to get to a point where we could implement it. And so I'd have to look at the language
that we're talking about. But the adoption of something and the implementation of it, we've had time to be
able to make sure-- we can't just wave a magic wand and start doing something without training people and
understanding it fully and vetting it out properly to make sure that there's not unintended consequences.
So there has to be a time period with which we've perfected what we're going to adopt. And I'm not even
sure I'm answering the question but hoping I am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Yeah, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think, Mr. Jensen, this goes to the point that you referenced earlier when Director
Harwick asked the question, or he made a comment, about the 13 revisions that we did relative to this
agency being intentional of utilizing the APTA standards as the framework in which we were going to adopt
for our preventative maintenance inspections. Hence, that was back last year relative to the implementation
with the 13th revision that took place in May of 2024.
So amplifying what Mr. Jensen is saying, I believe it is semantics. We basically decided to adopt the APTA
standards framework to basically relook at our inspection standards, utilizing APTA as the basis for that.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and Mr. Jensen. And if I may just restate to make sure I'm
understanding the answer to the question, the decision to adopt was made in May of 2023 or thereabouts.
Project began on the adoption as to be completed by June 30, 2024. Have I properly restated the answer?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, sir. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That does help close the gap in time. I don't want to take your job, Mr.
Chair. I just, if I understand correctly, the year-long period was a matter of, maybe, SOPs and-- I'm not sure
if this was stated, but I inferred-- staffing? I don't want to make too many inferences, but is that what we
have collectively suggested tonight?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: The ref-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- the reference to staffing was relevant to the
repairs that we're currently doing.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. For speed, I'll move along. And again, I appreciate the answers to the
questions.
So from a systemic-- looking at a system-wide and safety question-- because we have received questions,
is the rail safe?-- if we adopted these new procedures, these new track maintenance procedures, in the
beginning of May, can we say that, confidently, for the rest of the system, which has yet to be subject to
these new inspection standards because it hasn't all been inspected yet, can we also say with that same
degree of confidence that the track is safe? And I do believe staff when they say that the southeast track is
as safe as it can be with the mitigating measures that we've implemented.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: I can say with a high level of confidence that the track is safe.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for that. And then, again, just from that system-wide perspective and
because our TAM has been referenced here and by the PUC and what's available publicly, going back to
the 19th and Stout inspection-- and this is not meant to be an interrogation. These conversations are about
process improvement. That's what any CAP is.
So that 19th and Stout inspection that was conducted that resulted in condemning of the rail, was that on
schedule? Was that on a regular-- how should I say this-- was that inspection done on time with the
schedule we had in 2022?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: The inspections in the downtown area, because of known condition, were extended
beyond what normal inspections would be, plus paved track. So what was happening in the downtown area,

there were extensive measurements several times a week to measure track movement and the gauge,
which is the distance between the rails, and to determine whether or not there was any movement.
And so there was already a plan in place to replace the track at 19th. But mitigating circumstances caused
us to make sure we were watching it closely to ensure that it was safe. And then an inspection took place,
on time, in schedule, that showed a slight variance in the measurement, which caused us to slow the trains
down in that location and accelerate our replacement plan.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, I also want to note that at 19th and Stout, that was identified by
RTD and reported to the PUC due to the fact that we had people out-- i.e. Maintenance of Way crews-looking at the railroad. But to the point that Mr. Jensen just emphasized, it's paved rail. Hence we identified
that through our preventative maintenance program. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, further questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. And thank you for those comments. So just to wrap up the 19th and Stout
question in context here, I recognize we reported the condemned rail as we are required to under law. And
I'm glad that we did.
What I don't understand, not being an engineer and not having insight into our day-to-day operations,
because we were doing so much work and increased inspections in that area prior to November of 2022,
or October of 2022, what was it about 19th and Stout that made it so special? Because other areas on the
loop also experienced heavy traffic, magnesium chloride, et cetera. But we never reported conditions so
dire that E clips were missing.
And so I guess I just want to understand. Was there something very unique about that intersection or that
curve? And, I guess, related to that, was the scheduled-- did the Board authorize funds for these
replacement for 19th and Stout that did not get done on a previous schedule? Or were we within our
authorization/appropriations cycle when that was discovered?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: As far as the uniqueness of 19th and Stout, the entire central corridor was being watched
diligently. And so it wasn't just one specific location. It was all of it that was being watched diligently. And it
was the change in the measurement that caused us to accelerate the replacement project. As far as the
funding, I don't have an answer for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha, do you have a further question or two before I go to some other
directors with hands raised here?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have no further questions on 19th and Stout. I do have a couple of-I have a question about communications, and then I have a couple of comments. So if you'll permit me, Mr.
Chair, I'd like to just talk about our real-time communications with our customers and then let my colleagues
go. And then, if you could, I will wrap up quickly with a couple of final comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead with your comments, Director Ruscha, and then I'll go to the other
directors with hands raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And this is for anybody who can answer, but we've talked about our
real-time communications. And I am glad that we are doing better in terms of that, our forward-facing

individual web pages. But from my vantage point, and I've been checking almost every day for the last
couple weeks, I don't think that our communications are where they need to be for a trip planner or for our
commuters who are using these affected lines.
I live by Peoria Station. And if I asked trip planner right now how to get to Southmoor it suggests the 121,
then transferring to the 15 and then transferring to the 105. OK. But if I just pretend like I'm directly at Peoria,
which is up the street from my house, trip planner gives me more options. But that includes the R and H,
which, per trip planner, takes an hour. But the H Line is also experiencing up to 30-minute delays because
of this issue.
And yes, there are rider alerts. So think about this from a transit rider perspective. Now let's say I click on
the rider alerts. There's not some big warning saying it's probably going to take you more than an hour. If I
click on the rider alerts, there could be multiple alerts, particularly with the E Line.
But it becomes very difficult for the transit rider to figure out how long it's going to take them to get from A
to B. And the communications that we're giving out with trip planner are contradictory.
I know that we might be working with some data technology, and some of this requires overrides. But I
would really like to hear, if not tonight, very soon, from communications, What are we doing to make this
easier on our customers and communicate more effectively, given the constraints of the technology that we
have?
Because whatever it takes-- somebody manually doing overrides, redirecting to a brand-new page, and
we're just giving live feed updates-- I feel like we really do owe it to our customers just to mitigate the
problems our technology is posing.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. And before moving to other directors here, I'll just briefly pause. I
see Mr. Summers has leaned forward. Would you like to comment on that, Mr. Summers?
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah. I'd be happy to address that inquiry. So one thing that I think is important to
note is, the way that our system is built, the code that's used to feed Next Ride app and the signage at our
stations, it is old code.
And the base code of this system, we've recently discovered, when a train is so late beyond what would be
reasonably expected, it tries to default to schedule. And when the schedule and this late train then compete
for the same window, it just drops this trip entirely.
This was something that we discovered about 10 days ago. The IT team has been working on it. We put in
what they're calling a patch last Thursday, June 20. They've been testing it. It's been working as well as it
can at this point. And that's not to say that it's perfect, but they're working through the coding of this to make
sure that we can get that real-time feed.
Prior to this meeting, at 4:15, I checked. We were showing real-time trips on the E and H Lines. And so I'm
getting daily updates from my staff about these improvements that they're trying to make.
One thing that we've also been doing is we have placed what we call our digital customer relations liaison.
And those are our individuals that send out service alerts and respond to social media. We've moved them
from one of our office facilities to actually be stationed in our light rail control.

That way, they can be in real time, engaging with our light rail control operators, understanding what impacts
are happening to customers, so they can send out service alerts in real time and address inquiries that
come in via social media. So that's one thing that we've recently adopted, and we've seen some success
there.
And then, lastly, we're going through a service alert assessment right now. We recognize there are gaps in
it. We recognize that there are barriers to communicating effectively. We hear about that often. And so
we're going through an assessment to understand our technology, its limitations, and what we may need
to adopt in the future so we don't face these again.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Summers. I'm going to move on to other directors. Particularly, we have
one who has not spoken with their hand raised. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. I appreciate all of the hard work that you have done. Safety is
the most important issue we face as elected public servants. We are servants serving the public.
In this boardroom, that's what we do. In our agency, that's what we do. And we do it hand in hand, standing
shoulder to shoulder. It's not been a fun couple of weeks for anybody, but that's OK. Because the top priority
has to be serving the public and serving the public safely.
So I'll take the F. But I know it's not an F. I know that we are doing exceptional work. And I am reminded in
this moment that it's better to be silent and thoughtful than to speak and prove it. So I want to say thank
you for being quiet while we figured out what needed to be set.
We, unfortunately, live in an American culture right now, today, where people think it's like Burger King, and
you can have it your way when you want it, how you want it. This ain't that, to be clear. So I appreciate a
moment of pause, stepping back, figuring out what's going on, and then honestly representing what we
know and what we are willing to commit to the public without overcommitting so we don't under-deliver later.
That is not to say we don't need to keep our commitment to public transportation. But I am very happy to
hear that we are running safely on our rails and that that is not a concern, period. Said and done. It's been
said several times. I want to reiterate that that was said.
Patience is a virtue that we've lost. That's OK. But if Director Bouquet is correct in his assessment that we
need to start with why, that's why we stop until we figure out what needs to be said and how we answer
that why.
Speaking truth is often inconvenient. So to our dear customers, we understand the frustrations you face
because we face them, as well. But I would suggest-- you have heard it in multiple ways-- that we are here
to help you find a way to get to your destination. Call our customer service line-- 303-299-6000, and we
have help in multiple languages-- or use our RTD Ride app. We will help you find a way to get there.
There are buses that are running parallel to these corridors. We use them all the time. They are still running.
The trains are still running. It's a great opportunity to use 30 or 40 minutes to read through that book you've
been meaning to get through or listen to that podcast that you want to get through while you are delayed
and getting to your destination and get there safely.
But you're going to get there a little bit slower if you are taking any of these lines. The work must be done.
It is not optional. And the money was not put forward to do this so that we can make it optional now because
a few people think that they can put on their tennis shoes and run faster than a train, which I could do, too.

But I still want to get on and ride public transportation. And with this heat, I'd rather be on the train, in the
air conditioning, than running outside.
Finally, something that I heard that I would like to bring back up actually caught my attention. Ms. Johnson,
Mr. Jensen did speak about needing a larger work window overnight.
And so I would like to know how this board can partner with you and the agency to figure out how we do an
impossible task of a both/and. How do we provide a larger window for Maintenance of Way repair work and
provide service? Because that's been the struggle, right?
And so I don't expect an answer now, but I would like to see how we can partner going forward when we're
looking at service change and planning so that we can provide the Maintenance of Way workers what they
need in terms of time and availability but, also, we don't disappoint our customers in extending that window
of work time because of our system and the way that it's set up and our limitations. And they're real.
And if we can't figure out a great both/and, then how do we understand what we need to communicate to
our consumers, to our customers, and to our taxpayers what they need to understand before we make such
a change so that it is not seen as just us being inconvenient to them but, actually, being able to provide this
work?
Because clearly, what we have instituted in terms of safety and inspection is going to prove in the future
that we have some work to do. And that's OK. I'd rather know that we have work to do because we're doing
this.
What I would like to have, from a community engagement perspective and a communications perspective
as a director, is, What do I take back to my community to help explain what's going on so that it is palatable
and understandable and then be able to engage in that type of forthright, honest conversation with them to
say, although this is a pinch point, and this may be of concern now, the faster we get this rolling, the easier
it will be for everybody?
And where can we negotiate on what we can and cannot do or what we, as a Board of Directors who
represent people, are willing to allow to happen in our service versus where we need to put the brake on
for the public and say, let's level set and fix this? Does that make sense? All right. Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Appreciate the comments. I now see some hands raised that are
second bites. I'll hold my comments and questions. If I could just ask directors who are taking the second
bite to keep it to two to three minutes, that would be great. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair-- even less. I am curious as to why is this particular
problem somehow confined to the southeast line. Is the weather different on the southwest line or the W
Line or the R Line?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: I would say that, over the course of time, we'll find out that it's not confined to the southeast
line. There is a portion of it, and we're looking into that very thing right now, on the southeast corridor. Why
is it these two spots? We'll evaluate that. But I think what we will find is that there may be, hopefully at a
smaller level, the same thing in different areas.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. And is that with respect, Mr. Jensen, to, you alluded to earlier
needing to do the 225 corridor, southwest corridor. Is that what you're referencing now?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Next second bite I see is Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. If there are others who have their hands raised, I can go last, since I
just went.
ERIK DAVIDSON: You can go ahead, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you sir. So I appreciate Director Tisdale's question. I think it was the other half
of the question I previous asked about safety. But it is a good segue into my comment/request. And if
someone can address this, that's fine. If not, I'll just say it for the record.
We reduced the service span for the current schedule. And that went to effect in May, when we knew we
would have these enhanced inspection standards that would require more of our time. And that,
unfortunately, wasn't enough.
We've also been honest that this does not end by September, whether it's the southeast corridor or the
other aspects of our light rail system. And while I absolutely respect staff as doing their best right now, I
have to say, as a director who is going to vote on the service plan changes next month, I don't feel
comfortable that we have a plan.
And I don't know if it's fair to ask us to vote on those changes with what's been presented and what we're
putting out to the community right now for feedback if there is a chance-- and it looks like a greater than
50% chance-- that we will have speed restrictions in other parts of the system based on what we find.
And so I just have to put out there and just ask staff and just echo to do everything you possibly can and, I
hate to say, even consider a charter service if we can't mitigate this with our own staff. But right now, it does
feel like that we're flying blind, or driving blind. And it makes me nervous, as a person who does have to
respond to constituents.
And then, finally, I do want to address something else that hasn't been brought up tonight, but I've talked
to privately with staff. It was noted in the news that we issued, essentially, a media gag order on our frontline
employees. And that media gag order is unlawful. It's unlawful under Colorado statute.
And I'm on the record formally asking that that order is either completely rescinded or significantly amended
so that such SOP is legal. We cannot tell our frontline operators or staff that they are not allowed to speak
in public about matters related to health and safety.
That's very clear in Colorado law and others, as well. It would be different if we told Mr. Summers, this is
what you say to the press. That is Mr. Summers' job.
And so, just in the sake of, number one, what is right, two, fostering a safety culture with our frontline
employees who are most at risk, generally, if a safety incident were to occur, and also because this is a
liability issue. We don't have to talk about it tonight, but I am formally asking management and our GM/CEO
to rescind or significantly amend that order, as well as be very clear with our employees, whether you are

represented or not, what your rights are under the law when reporting, or even talking about, public health
and safety issues, as this is a matter of public interest.
I am not, in any way, suggesting that people should violate executive privilege or very specific laws as it
relates to open investigations. I'm talking about things that are permitted to be discussed in the public forum.
So those are my final comments. And again, I also want to say thank you to staff for working very hard on
this and for working to be more available to constituents and the press and transit organizations and asking
questions. I really appreciate it.
And I'm, personally, pleased to see that we are putting out more information on our website. I didn't expect
everything to be fixed by tonight. But overall, I feel like this is a significant improvement. And I do want to
end with that. So thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And I do see that General Manager and CEO is prepared
to comment. So please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for your
comments and for acknowledging staff's efforts. I believe it's very important that I clarify in this public setting
that at no time did I or a member of my team issue a media gag order.
For everyone's edification, we were notified by an employee working in their frontline position as a bus
operator that they were approached by media. This is prior-- let me emphasize this is prior-- to the
preventative maintenance speed restrictions that were in place.
An employee was approached by a member of the media and was asked whether or not they had seen
assaults happening on transit vehicles. This employee reached out to the Media Relations Office, I believe,
and basically said, I don't feel comfortable talking to the media. What am I to do?
So upon conferring with staff-- i.e. the modal leaders, as well as Stuart Summers-- I recognize that
everybody has their First Amendment rights. We have media guidelines. And we said, if at any time you
get a media inquiry, you direct that.
That was then provided in our weekly newsletter and Inside Connections. And our modal leaders put out
what we call bulletins to represented employees reminding them of the media policy. And further, it stated
that we recognize their First Amendment rights.
So I just want to ensure that everybody is cognizant of the fact that there was no media gag order provided
in relation to what was listed in the media. And if I'm not mistaken, I believe Mr. Summers had corrected
that with the media and apprised them. And he is nodding affirmatively.
So for the record, there has been no such media gag order. And, quite naturally, with anything of that level,
quite naturally, I conferred with our general counsel, as well, knowing what our First Amendment rights are.
So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to address this in this forum. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO for commenting. Director Ruscha, I see your
hand is up. Would you like to briefly respond to that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I will briefly-- just briefly. Just so that we're all aware, there was a
specific memo, which is online and was reported by CPR and is posted on their website. And that memo

does say, quote, "You are reminded that all inquiries from media personnel for interviews or information
should be politely declined," unquote.
And so potato, potato. The agency might not think that is a media gag order. I think the general public and
individuals I've spoken to who are subject matter experts in labor relations and worker safety law would
disagree. So again, I am formally asking that we send out a new memo and that the agency also copied
the Board, just so we're all on the same page. Thank you. And that's my final comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Not seeing other hands, I'll wrap us up. The vast majority
of my questions have been answered this evening. I'd like to thank Mr. Summers for your comments on
Next Ride. That's certainly one of the areas we've had a lot of questions and comments from the public
around determining their ride. That's helpful to understand.
I'd like to just lay out an analogy and see if I'm characterizing this correctly, Mr. Jensen. So forgive me for
this being a little bit simple here. But for those that may own an automobile, you can really approach your
maintenance on that automobile and choose to be very ignorant and happy, drive it, never bring it in for any
kind of maintenance at all. And you're never really down until, all of a sudden, you have an extreme problem,
perhaps a major safety problem.
You could also decide to do the bare minimum maintenance. You could go to Google, and you could see
what generally should be done with a vehicle. Or you might come up within your own enhanced version of
that and define that. Or you could go as far as following exactly the manufacturer's specifications and take
it in for absolutely all maintenance, with a much higher standard.
It sounds to me what's happened here is-- of course, we were doing preventative maintenance, and we
were following something that we had defined and were moving towards. But we've gone to that more
proactive form of maintenance. And as would happen-- perhaps another analogy-- if you were to go get a
full-body MRI, you go looking for problems, you find problems.
So is it fair to characterize that we're just experiencing growing pains as we move between those standards
and get more rigorous? Is this a fair analogy, Mr. Jensen? Is there anything you might tweak in the analogy?
DAVE JENSEN: I would say that that's a fair assessment and well said. And at the end of the day, we will
be in better health as a result.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. I think with that being said, it seems like there's a lot of learnings
that we've had here. I've heard very clearly this evening that this is something that many agencies go
through and experience and is a necessary part of safety. We have to have that downtime.
Like my other colleagues, I thank and commend staff for making safety of the utmost and top priority. Using
that analogy of owning an automobile, perhaps a family owning the automobile has slack in the system-another automobile. Perhaps they have very limited slack, which oftentimes, it feels this system, being as
large as it is, being single tracked, being short on workforce, the things we've heard, not a lot of slack in the
system.
And therefore, those maintenance periods take planning, communicating with the family of what the
expectation is, when we're bringing it in. And that's the real-time reactive planning around what we've been
told by the mechanic and how long it's going to be in the shop. And that's the proactive of when we're
expecting to do it.

It sounds like we don't have all of the answers here yet. But I've heard very clearly-- and Mr. Jensen, thank
you for characterizing it as such-- that we're moving from a reactive state to a more proactive state.
I think, Mr. Summers, we're having the opportunity to watch you and your team work in real time. And thank
you for those efforts on reacting the same to Mr. Jensen's efforts of, How do we get to be more proactive?
And it seems to me there's a tremendous opportunity here for us to learn as an agency. And one of the big
gaps is that we need to get very proactive in communicating with the public. And I certainly suggest and
recommend that we consider communicating this further out to the public that we have other maintenance
to be done, that we are moving to a more proactive state, that we take ownership of that. That seems to be
where there's been a gap.
And I very much thank the public, for those that may be listening in on this, for their patience, for bearing
with us, for continuing to be customers of RTD. We, as a region, are going through growing pains of going
to a more proactive, preventative maintenance and watching our system, that was relatively young, get a
little older.
So thank you to staff. And thank you to our customers for that patience. Again, I'd like to thank staff for
organizing this meeting. I recognize that a lot had to come together. I recognize that what had been
requested was a more frequent level of communications with this Board.
General Manager and CEO Johnson, thank you for responding to that and for late phone calls and making
yourself available. Truly appreciate the effort that's gone into this evening. I think it has been helpful,
illustrated the situation, and is now available to the public. Mr. Summers, I don't envy your job, but thank
you for doing what you are doing.
[LAUGHTER]
And please let this Board know whatever it is that you need to be more proactive and how we can help with
our constituents in our position as Board Directors to help you be more proactive in those efforts. With that,
we will wrap this discussion item.
And at this time, I would like to just remind everybody that tomorrow, we have a special Board meeting,
another special Board meeting, that's beginning at 3:00 PM Mountain Daylight Time, which is to vote on
the Erie annexation election and to have an executive session regarding the Office of the State Auditor's
Revised Findings.
After that special Board meeting concludes, we will convene our regularly scheduled Board meeting for the
month of June. The aim will be to start our regular Board meeting no earlier than, and as close to, 5:30 PM
Daylight Time as possible. There is no other discussion on the agenda this evening. Therefore, I will
entertain a motion to adjourn.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Plenty. The meeting is adjourned as of 6:55 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you
very much, everybody.

