Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

December 2, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008 at
5:31 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

O’Neill Quinlan, Chair; Barbara Brohl, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Noel
Busck, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill
McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer, and Barbara
Yamrick
Juanita Chacon

Staff Present:

Rick Clark, Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Van Meter, John
Shonsey, Dave Genova, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Nadine Lee, Brian
Middleton, Mark Bauer, Reed Lee, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Phil Eberl, Roger
Sherman, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Kent Bagley, Jack O’Boyle, Bill James, Matt Cohen, Tom Tobiassen,
Jeff Leib (Denver Post), Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:31p.m.

1.

Recommended Actions
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
Roger Sherman presented this item to the board. Roger indicated that recruitment for
additional citizens was publicly advertised. The Nominating Committee met 10 days ago
to review the applications. The committee shortlisted seven of the thirty-five applicants,
five of the seven applicants were available for interviews. After careful review from the
Nominating Committee – the following action was recommended:
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors
re-appoint two current members and appoint two new members to the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) for a three-year term.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008
Page 2

MOTION:

Director Busck made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the December
16, 2008 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Proposal for Expanded Committee
Roger Sherman introduced this item to the board. The Nominating Committee believes it
is a logical time to revisit the number of members serving on the CAC and recommends
increasing membership from eleven to seventeen. The reasons include:
 Significant public interest in serving on committee.
 Committee meets more frequently than originally planned. The increased time
commitment also increases the chance for members to be absent.
 Unforeseen program challenges.
 Opportunity for improving breadth of representation.
When committee was originally approved by board it was decided that we would not peg
appointments to Director District but geographical representation is one of the criteria
listed. There are a couple of district that do not have anyone representing. It is not a
requirement that every district has representation. Roger is encouraging board members
to proactively go out and try to encourage folks who would be qualified to apply.
Geographic balance is important but the most important thing is to have the best
qualified applicants. More importantly to have more people committed to FasTracks
Process.
Director Pulliam’s thoughts were that having seventeen on the committee is too large
because it becomes unmanageable.
Roger shared with the board that the deadline for applications will probably be the end of
January and he would come to the board for approval in February. He also invited the
board to the last quarterly meeting of the year which will be on December 17th. This
will be an opportunity for the board members to interact with the current CAC members
and two new appointees.
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC) of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors increase the number of members of the CAC from eleven to seventeen and
direct the RTD Public Affairs Division and the FasTracks Public Involvement Consultants
to begin recruiting for additional interested citizens as using criteria outlined in the
Committee Structure approved by the Board.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008
Page 3
MOTION:

Director Kemp made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the December
16, 2008 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with one no vote (Pulliam).

Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP) Stipend Agreements
Rick Clark indicated that this is a recommendation for authorization to enter into a
stipend agreement with 3 proposers on the P3 Project. The reason being is that the P3
proposals are very expensive to prepare, the estimate is in excess of 10 million apiece.
A stipend provides for a portion and shows commitment to proposers that RTD has to
the process. The benefit to RTD will maximize the incentive for proposers to submit a
fully complete proposal. RTD will get the right as part of these agreements to use any
ides the unsuccessful proposers use. This process was used successfully on TREX - an
example is the ideas of the I-25 and 225 interchange that saved 7 million during project.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a stipend
agreement with each of the three pre-qualified teams invited to respond to the RFP
(the Proposers) in the not to exceed amount of $1,750,000 each. It is further
recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $5,250,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the PPP Preparation project to fund the stipend agreements.
This action will accelerate funding currently programmed for the Eagle Project in 2011.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the December
16, 2008 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008
Page 4
2.

Updates


Gold Line
Liz Telford, Manager Corridor Planning, presented this item to the board. She
shared that she has been working different roles on Gold Line since 1998 when
the Major Investment Study was underway.
Liz discussed the schedule, preferred alternative, vital statistics, alignment and
stations. See power point presentation for specifics.



US 36
Reed Everett-Lee, FasTracks Contractor, provided the update on US 36. He
indicated that they are moving into the preparation of final EIS and defining
phases of project. Key elements include Transit Improvements, Multimodal
Improvements, Highway Improvements and Bikeway.
RTD and CDOT are jointly funding the preparation of the DEIS/FEIS & ROD,
development of the Preferred Alternative and they jointly developed the scope
and schedule for the FEOS and ROD. A Project Management Team comprised of
RTD and CDOT staff has been comprised and meets regularly. A partnering
session was held on October 28th to jointly establish goals, objectives and
assignments for this phase of project. They jointly prepare for Working Group
and PAC meetings which met every month January through June, 2008.
Additional PAC and Working Group meetings are scheduled for FEIS. The FEIS
will be published July of ’09 - ROD to be signed November ’09.



Transit Maintenance Facilities
Bill Van Meter gave a brief update on where we are with the Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility (CRMF), Bus Maintenance Facility (BMF), Light-Rail
Maintenance Facility (FRMF).
CRMF – Platte facility is preferred site per Environmental Assessment. Other
sites for CRMF may be viable per due diligence and are being identified and
evaluated by RTD. Further analyses must be conducted to determine if sites are
feasible. Recommendations slated for Board and Public information in Jan/Feb
2009.
BMF – Six sites have been analyzed as location for new bus maintenance facility.
Three sites are moving forward through evaluation process. They are: Fox South,
Fox North, and 51st East site. Others have been eliminated. Site to be
recommended in the Jan and Feb timeframe.
LRMF – The made decision to move forward with expanding existing Elati LRMF.
Key elements include: add vehicle storage on the north side of property, add a
light rail vehicle wash bay on the west side, double the parts storage capacity,
add new mezzanines for additional light rail vehicle rooftop maintenance and

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on December 2, 2008
Page 5
access and retrofit an existing nay at the Mariposa facility with a new paint
booth. The design for expansion is close to completion. The goal is to start
construction in summer 2009 and complete it in fall 2010.
3.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

4.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday,
January 6, 2008.

5.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at
6:55 p.m.

