2025-03-06 - Executive Committee
JULIEN BOUQUET: For the recording. That's what we love to hear. Perfect. The Thursday, March 6
Executive Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 3:04 PM. I respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we're providing communication access, real time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. Also, there is a live stream of this meeting via RTD's YouTube page.
I'd now like to call the roll for the committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson. I was just informed Treasurer Baker cannot make it.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, perfect.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, I should say yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I was informed. Treasurer Baker cannot make it. I am present, so that is 4 out of
the five. We do have a quorum. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or
press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at at
rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised? Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There are no
hands raised in anticipation of your subsequent question. No public comments were submitted in relation
to this meeting in advance via email.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. With no other participants in the queue, we will now close public comment
at this time. Are there any other matters to discuss before we move on to our executive session? Well,
excellent.
So I would like to note for members of the public who are remotely or who may be watching this via
YouTube, the next regular scheduled Executive Committee meeting will be held on Thursday, March 20.
During that meeting, we'll have our normal Board agenda review and we'll discuss other items for the
month and might come through the Executive Committee. We'll also take additional public comment at
that time.
Also would like to state, for the sake of the record, I do see Director Gutschenritter has joined us. So
thank you for being with us, sir. Has been here the whole time. OK, in a moment, the committee will meet
in Executive session for cybersecurity threat briefing, assessment, and awareness training. I'd like to
amend the motion to move into Executive session to state that the Executive Committee meeting will be
deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the Executive session. For public transparency, this means that
once the committee moves into Executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I'll now entertain a motion to move into Executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to 24-6-402
CRS and 24-72-204, specialized details of physical and cyber assets of critical infrastructure, protective
measures, emergency response plans or system operational data of such assets that would be useful to
a person in planning an attack on critical infrastructure. 24-6-402. matter required to be kept confidential
by federal law and 49 CFR parts 15 and 1520, sensitive security information for newly elected Director
orientation with Director of cybersecurity on cyber security, threat briefing, assessment and awareness
training.
Do I have a mover?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Moved.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: O’Keefe is the mover and Nicholson is the second. All right. So I think we're good.
We're going to move our main meeting-- Oh sorry. Motion to—
JACK KROLL: If anyone's opposed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh anyone's opposed. My apologies.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: It will literally just be Director Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Speak now or forever hold your peace, Troy. And for those who are listening
virtually, you might have heard a chime. And that is my school bell. And I had to mute so that you didn't
hear some confidential information here. All right, back to our main meeting. My apologies for that. So
motion passes four, zero noes, and one absent. All right. So the main meeting is adjourned into the
Executive session at 3:09 PM. All right. Thank you, guys. All right. We'll go over to the next link. Thanks,
guys.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yep.

