January 14, 2020
Operations & Customer Service Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin. I'm going on mute as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: We appreciate that. OK, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to
the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting. Today's Tuesday, January 14. If
everybody's ready, we're going to begin.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are digitally video recorded
and will be captioned and made available to the public via the board's website. At RTD, safety is
our core value or one of our core values. I'd like to begin the meeting with a short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel
to make that telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator, also known as an AED, is in
a glass case located just outside of this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please exit calmly
out the door and that you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor, around
the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will
be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities,
the agency relies both on staff and on the general public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious
or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around station stops and platforms and at this
meeting. As such, I would encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit
Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate
directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency
situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store Thank you.
We do not have any recommended actions this evening, so we are going to go directly into updates.
I believe that we have some of the Operations and Customer Service staff at the table. And I'm
going to ask those gentlemen to address some of these items.
Let's see what we have. The first thing we have is May 2020 service changes. Gentlemen?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, this is Michael Ford, COO. We're just here to talk about the proposed
service changes for May. We came to you at the study session on December 19 to provide you an
overview of what we were thinking. And prior to that, we did meet with Board members one on
one or two on one to talk about what issues were happening in their particular areas.

So tonight, I'm going to turn this over to Jessie. But we're going to talk to you about what we
addressed in the December 19 meeting, plus the other components that go into the service plan for
proposal to go out and get customer input and feedback. So with that, I'll just turn it over to Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Michael. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. At this point in time, we are in the process of putting together about 18 public hearings.
I believe each have been contacted by someone either on the Service Planning and Scheduling
Staff or Public Relations or some other member of RTD staff with regard to meetings. And I have
to thank you all for your getting back to us and letting us know your preferred locations. We hope
to have the list put together and given to Marketing by this Friday. So we hope to have that wrapped
up.
There was additional changes that were made to the service plan that you saw in the December 19
study session. Those included adding in the customary service changes that we make normally in
May, turning down school trip or service. It also included a change to the Route 66 and Route 153.
And that was for CBA compliance, giving our operators a restroom location at the Arapahoe
Station. And also added in was the 15L running time analysis. And that's being done because of
the signal prioritization work that was done on East Colfax has actually impacted the route in such
a way that we may be able to take a few minutes out of the running time. So that's a positive.
With that, everything was also listed in the same way that it was presented in the December 19
study session. So there were very few changes, other than that. One of the other more notable
changes included the 116X, which was originally proposed for elimination, has now been changed
to eliminating 1 AM and 1 PM trip. So with that, I'd like to open to any questions you have about
the service change.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. Thank you gentlemen, for your preparation and your
work on this. I have a couple of points. I believe that the information provided said that there would
be a cost savings of $10.2 million for base and $2.2 for Fast Tracks. And is that money going to
be saved to reinstall these routes when we get our operator situation better?
MICHAEL FORD: OK. With that, I'm turning, and I'm looking at our CFO for information on
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, Heather. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So as we had mentioned previously, we will
take those savings, reduce it out of the operating budgets, and set that money aside. And so when
the determination is made that we have adequate headcount, we can use those funds to discuss
which routes would be added back at that time.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So that means all of that money is going to kind of be put in a fund?
And will be available for when we make the improvements?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, it will go into contingency. Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Thank you. Another question is that I noticed that
there was a listing that 12 Rail FTEs and 50 Bus FTEs were going to be saved?
MICHAEL FORD: That's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: And I was just wondering. I know we're doing a balancing act. But is that going
to be enough to address the problem of the rail shortages that have initiated a lot of the publicrelations problems that we have?
MICHAEL FORD: It won't resolve the problems. It will help try to get to some level of
stabilization. But I want to be very clear that we're still down quite a few operators. I think the last
count was around 48 or something like that. And we are budgeted for 216.
So we're continuing to work very hard on the retention and recruitment efforts. But we are doing
everything we can to make that work. But again, we are still needing to get our counts up to address
where we're at.
JESSIE CARTER: And more to the point-- this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. When you look at the rail, you're looking at a service itself that operates at a high level
during the peak period-- so, a high level of patronage. You're talking trips that are in the 200 to
300 passengers per trip.
To advocate for changes on a service like that, turning down the headway frequency, you're
actually taking away our ability to provide service that goes just beyond the elimination of that trip
because there isn't capacity on either side of that trip to absorb the level of ridership that would go
away. So we would be remiss in trying to say that we're applying our guiding principles in cutting
back those services.
Added to that, to complicate matters even further, the SERE contract, the requirement that we
provide six-minute peak frequency on the Southeast Rail Extension for a period five years from
its start, actually ties our hands there as well because we can't reduce the level of service frequency
on that line. So with that, we're left with being able to make modifications to a service that isn't
performing. And right now, that seems to be the R Line. So we're somewhat limited. But at the
same time, we're doing what is something that we can back up or support with our guiding
principles.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. May I have a couple of minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: You may.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. So how much are you predicting that this particular cut in
the rail FTEs will benefit the problems that we've been having of the lost runs?
JESSIE CARTER: With reduction of the R going-- I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of
Service Planning and Scheduling. When we say 12 full-time employees applied against the 64
employees that were short, it will have a positive effect. Will it eliminate the 64 that we need? No,
it will not.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so we're going to have a interesting ride going forward I guess. OK. Another
question that I have is that I had asked before that staff put together a list of possible retention
improvement actions to take in addition to service cuts. And I was wondering if that's going to be
happening and when?
MICHAEL FORD: Staff has a report that we're willing to provide you. We've been working on
different processes and procedures and ways in which we can address some of the deficiencies that
we're experiencing right now. And we'll be happy to share that with you. Is that what you're looking
for right now?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm just wondering-- I'm going to be voting against this, not because I don't want
it to happen, but it leaves open our conversation ability. But I'm very interested in what we're doing
in addition to service cuts. And I would love to see that as soon as possible about what you're
planning-- without being precipitous, but still having the Board get to see what some of the ideas
are to address retention that isn't just service cuts.
And in light of that, I sent around to the-- well, Barbara McManus, thank you-- sent around to the
board an email from Alexander Hyde Wright from Boulder. And I don't know if you gentlemen
were sent it-- maybe not. Don't look like it. But I have it here. And we can certainly give it to you.
But basically what Boulder County is doing is they're making some of those suggestions that I call
the third way, which isn't just things being the same or cuts, but are there other things that we can
do to try to address the retention problem. And they've made suggestions like cutting the Y creates
the opportunity to help co-fund expansion of the Lyons Taxi Voucher Program. They've got a
bunch of different suggestions. And I would really urge you to meet with those people and to meet
with anybody from any of the jurisdictions that say we've got an idea from our local area that we
think might help you with your retention issue in our area.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. I'm done. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a few questions, many along the same lines as
Director Lubow. It does say here that this proposal solves for 50 full-time employees. And we
actually need 76. And it also solves for 12 part-time employees. And we're in need of 18.

And I know when we talked about this much earlier, we talked about targets. So how might we be
able to measure our success? And so I have a curious question about what those targets are? Like,
what is it that we're shooting for? To know when we hit that, we are successful.
MICHAEL FORD: We'd like to reduce mandating into the single digits. That would be a targeted
goal. We would also want to make sure that mandating is more of a-- well, it's not even continuing.
We're going to have some level of mandating. But that people will have choices, whether they
want to work overtime or not.
I think those are goals. But the specific goal is getting into the single digits in terms of the number
of people that would have to be forced to be mandated. That would be a goal that I would offer at
this point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I accept that. Thank you. And also, could we add that as part of this
proposal when you all come back with the official proposal that we would need to make a vote
on? If we can include that as part of the information that you all would be presenting to us?
Because I think it is important. And I've also heard from our stakeholders and from the public.
They don't have any idea as well how we might measure success.
In addition to that, I know we've talked a bit about HR data. And I know this doesn't fall under
your purview. But I also wonder if you might add that in terms of those retention strategies? What
it is that we might be doing as a part of this package, so folks can have a full understanding and a
full picture of, in addition to service reductions, what's happening in terms of recruiting and
retention? Because I think it's really important that we go back to that data to understand what's
going on with our workforce.
And I'd say generally-- I mean, I do have some concerns that we might lose riders that we have
currently, and we never get them back. And then I also wanted for you, Jessie, to talk about the
16L. I do have some concerns about the demographic of folks who utilize that service and how
they're utilizing that and what that means for the W Line-- whether or not to use the W Line. And
so we might just want to look at that again. That's it.
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. And thank you for your comments. One of the things that we hope
to learn when we go out to the public through this whole public process is to get information about
how individuals actually use the service. So if we're able to modify the plan, then we can do that.
I'd also hope that we also keep in mind that it's not just the W Line that replaces the 16 L, but the
Route 16 as well. For the most part, it's probably the most common between the alternative
services. So we're open to learn through the public process. And we appreciate the Board's allowing
us to go forward with this to explore that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. And I do really appreciate that. I didn't know that you
all have gone out to talk to the public and have come back with different proposals. And so I want
to acknowledge that. And I just also want to say that. So I appreciate it.

JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to encourage staff when they hold the public
meetings that are coming up that they explain exactly what this process is all about because there's
quite a bit of confusion right now. Normally, when you think about making service cuts, you're
thinking, well, we have to cut our budget because we don't have enough money to pay for all these
things.
This is simply not the case here. We have the money in the budget to pay for all these operators.
But we just simply don't have them on the staff.
So people are going to come up with ideas about how RTD could save money, so that they wouldn't
have to cut service. Well, that's not going to help. If they want to make suggestions, it's more what
can we do to retain drivers after we get them hired as opposed to what other cuts can we make in
order not to make these particular cuts. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. I don't think you were waiting for an answer.
And that was OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I'll start with first the 16 and the 16L. I've now told over and
over, I personally don't want this temporary and permanent because it holds us to it. So in voting
yes tonight, I am not voting yes on that column in the spreadsheet.
It is just setting us up. It's a problem. Here would be an example, in my opinion. On the 16L, it
states, "Discontinue service consistent with the original West Corridor plan." So we've already
stated, OK, we tried. This was part of the plan. But then yet it says "temporary" in that column, in
that cell.
So that is one example. And especially in light of the Reimagine RTD, we just don't know the
future. And I know you had your arms twisted both directions by the Board. And I tried harder on
my side, but you didn't cave in.
So with that, I just want to be very clear that when I am voting yes, I am not agreeing with the
temporary or the permanent because that is just a promise that we will not be able to make. I have
been doing the outreach to my area. And I think it's just easier to explain it now because some
other directors will get questions on this.
But as an example, with the 32, because we are going to be eliminating service in front of Ridge
High School, I've asked the School District to see if they can put it in a circulator. They had heard
about this cut. And they may be able to work something out. I don't know. Cross your fingers.
The same way with the 99L, which covers multiple districts all the way from Ken Caryl all the
way to downtown. One of the other options there is the 87L with the City of Lakewood. I'm trying

to figure out if we've got public, existing land where we could create another Park and Ride along
Wadsworth.
It's north of the Hampton, but south of 6th Avenue. So people could come down from Green
Mountain and use that. It's not that long of a drive. So I'm trying to find workarounds with these.
And it's just easier to say it now, here, instead of having a private phone conversation with you.
But I do want to know, where do we have the discussion about potentially with the 99L? That's
one of the most vocal routes that I know of in news, the emails, the petitioning, which they say
they've got 500 people who've signed it. I've experienced Change.org before. That could be
somebody in California signing the thing. It doesn't mean anything to me, although I know there
are legit signers.
But what is our options on getting either the Conifer or the Evergreen to go back to making that
stop at Federal Center and then continuing on downtown? Do I try to amend this tonight? Where
in the process shall I try to do that?
JESSIE CARTER: I think it would be best at this point-- again, I'm sorry. This is Jessie Carter,
Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. The best time to actually amend a proposal as it was
stated would be during the public hearing process, so we can talk about the options with the public.
And that way, when we come back to the Board after analyzing it, we can present to the Board the
option that came out of the public process.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I will do that. And Director Catlin is very well aware-- because we
had the meeting the one day-- about doing that. And then the other option-- and I'm sorry to be
hogging time, but this is a pretty substantial discussion that we're having here. This is not normal
"tweak something because of a school tripper"-- is the 116X at the Alameda and C-470 Parkway.
That area, even though there's now the growth limit with the city of Lakewood, and Morrison
keeps wanting it developed, that is an area that's going to develop out. How it will develop, I don't
know. But right now, I know there's vacant land. And there's a developer-- that the special district- those taxpayer money owns land there. Perhaps we could have a pull-off for a Park and Ride
there before the infill comes because the 116X is driving by there anyway.
So those things are in motion. I'm not going to put money on any of them coming through. But I
definitely wanted to share that we're trying to create some workarounds. But it would help with
some flexibility on those other alternatives. Meanwhile, I'll vote yes with-- again, what I clearly
stated-- the temporary and permanent's no guarantee. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Director Menten, just as a matter of clarification, in the report when it says the
original W Line service plan, referring to the one-- not the one that was actually voted upon and
adopted by the Board of Directors, but the original plan, which included an increased level of
service on the Route 16, thereby replacing the 16L as a whole. That was not put into place. So this
is my group taking the opportunity to take another look at trying to do something that we had
originally planned to do.

And there was, we believed at that point in time, a superior service that would be offered by
enhanced level of frequency on the 16. So that's what we would be going forward looking at. So
we could, of course, take the discussion further offline and talk about it in-depth.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So since this also does affect many with that leg coming from the 16
down to Fed Center, is that still up in the air?
MICHAEL FORD: That is still up in the air.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you very much.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Menten. I'd like to take this opportunity to point out that
we are not voting on anything tonight. These are updates. All of the Board Members have had this
information, and hopefully are working with staff.
We will be headed for some public meetings to have more of these kind of discussions. And I
appreciate the work you've done so far, gentlemen, and the work that you're looking to do. So now
we can go on. Director Cook, I believe you're up.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. To pick up on a point made by a couple of the directors and
just verify my understanding, not only are we reducing the rail-- so I'm talking about the rail gap,
the gap in operators. We also, as I understand from talking to Dave Jensen, have increased the
number of operators in training and the frequency of the training sessions. So hopefully between
those two, we'll be able to narrow the gap more than just the 12 FTEs.
However, I really-- and Jessie Carter and Michael Ford know. We brought this up and talked about
it. I know they're working on it, but I just want to bring it to the fore, since it's been a topic. I really
feel like we need to model where we'll be likely by the time we get to May.
And if we still have a significant gap, estimate what that means in terms of both the mandating-are we meeting the targets that Director Lewis identified for the mandating? And also, what does
that mean in terms of dropped runs? So I just want to stress how important I think that is to have
before we make the decision to go ahead with these service cuts. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cool. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. One thing that I wanted to observe
relative to these proposed service reductions is that, relative to our operator shortage, this in and
of itself is not a magic bullet. It's not the single solution.

It's not what is somehow magically going to make everything work. It is one step of a coordinated
process that staff is reviewing and that the Board will ultimately have to approve. I think that's
important for people to understand.
Because if you set this up as the magic bullet, then after perhaps five or six months of this new
system potentially being in place, people would say have we solved the problem? And the answer
is we may well have. But if so, it probably was not due solely to these changes that we're talking
about now.
Secondly, relative to the permanent changes that are being proposed here, I think it's very important
for everyone to understand that these are changes that would have been made anyway for the
simple reason that they don't meet our service standards. And so it's not that we're somehow saying,
oh, this is a chance for us to do this. And this will be permanent.
As to the ones that are listed as temporary, that is in fact, as I understand it, the goal-- the aspiration.
Now, circumstances may preclude that in the future. But I cannot-- I don't know if others can, but
I cannot predict the future. But I am very hopeful that I am accurate when I say this is the intention
and the aspiration-- that these changes would be temporary.
And even as to those permanent changes, I think it is important that we state that it is incumbent
upon us, it's incumbent upon staff, it's incumbent upon the Board to review and explore these and
other potential routes periodically in the future. The example I like to use is that of Bellevue
Avenue.
Because when I was first elected to the Board, I said, we have no service on Belleview. You have
to go from Hampton down to Arapahoe Road before you will find an east-west line in that area,
creating a bit of a transit oasis. And I was told that, well, that's because the service demand isn't
present on Bellevue.
And I said, how do we know that? They said, well, we did a study in 1982 that tells us that the
service standard is not met. I said, OK. I understand that.
But I think that periodically, we need to look at that as you have various circumstances change and
development occur. We look at all of these things from time to time. So I just wanted to share
those observations as a part of the diligent work that is done by our staff in response to our request.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Valid points. I'd like to point out that on the
chart that we have that addresses these particular issues, those standards are listed at the bottom
should anybody have any questions about what kind of standards we are using at the moment.
Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And I appreciate Director Tisdale's comments. I agree
that, in terms of being careful, that the permanent changes-- we talked about this before-- were
changes that were going to happen anyhow. We do want to not raise expectations too high about
what this is going to do. We think it'll help.

I'd asked some questions when we first met about the workforce issues of our contractors. And I
guess I'd just bring those up again, kind of along lines of what Director Lubow was asking-- what
other things we're looking at. If we're saving money on salaries and overtime, I know that
contracting out is more expensive.
But have we looked at if our contractors can take on more work? What their workforce issues look
like? Are we at the limit of how much contracting we can do? Do we need that changed? All of
those questions.
JESSIE CARTER: At this point in time, I believe we're-- sorry. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of
Service Planning and Scheduling. We set it at about 56% privatization. The cap is 58%. So while
we can go up, the extra 2% would have to be absorbed within the individual contracts that the
contractors have for the work that they have at this point in time.
But I would want to remind the Board that we go through what's called division balancing every
service change. And in the division balancing, we look at where we can move routes from one
division to either a private carrier or vice versa. So we do look at where a private carrier may have
a better ability to provide the service or have a better manpower situation. So that's something that
we've been doing since we started getting into this. I'd say we really took a concentrated effort
moving forward with that in 2016 and up to today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think Mr. Worthen is adding something? I thought maybe. Thank you.
So in other words, at this point, they don't have the manpower to take on additional work aside
from the cap? Is that what you're saying?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah. It's Michael Ford, COO. We are finding that they're in the same situation
we are. They're stretched, too. And they don't have the extra capacity.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And more to the point, in Boulder, where we have a strain at the division,
at Boulder Division, the First Transit Northern is also still down 10 operators.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. And then to reiterate something and expand on, a little bit, what
Director Lubow said about the propositions from Boulder County, this is a perfect time, I think,
for us to look at how we partner with our local governments. And Director Menten mentioned the
School Board. Some of them want to work with us.
And I'd say the perfect time because we're making these decisions, at least many of them-- and I
say many of them because the permanent issue-- but some of them just based on the workforce
and not on the budget. So we're setting aside money. I hope that money would be available-- aside
from just reinstating service, since we're not reinstating all of it-- to consider creative ways to
provide service with vouchers or expanding a different route in some way to reach certain areas.
Things like that. And work to continue some of the service in those ways. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I'm going to go to the people on the phone,
Director Menten. And then I will come back to you. And I believe that we have both Director

Folska and Director Catlin on the phone. So I'm going to go to Director Folska, just because I said
her first.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. Thank you. This is always a really
difficult thing to do. And I understand the difference between what we would normally do on our
triannual basis versus the temporary-- and I hate to say "cuts." You know, I think that "temporary
service reduction" maybe is more appropriate than cuts. Cuts sound so permanent.
Gentlemen, could you reassure me and the general public that should those temporary service
reductions, that you do listen to the public and take it into account? I happened to hear a news
report maybe last night or the night before. And I don't know what channel. But a gentleman was
very upset about, I think, the 99, 99L.
And he said, I'm saying all this on the news. But I don't think these people at RTD pay attention
or even care or are really listening to us. So to that point, this is difficult for everyone.
But I'd like you to take this opportunity, if you are inclined, to reassure this Board and our
constituents that you do listen. And you take their thoughts into account. And sometimes you
replace things. And maybe give an example. That's all, Chair Williams. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. This is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling.
Director Folska, I appreciate your comments.
The gentleman that was on-- I believe it was CBS. His name was Aaron Smith. I had the
opportunity to actually communicate with him on the 99L. And that is the route that he currently
rides. And he's the one who actually put together the petition.
I explained that it was not our intention to permanently eliminate the 99L. But the 99L actually
has decent ridership. And where it falls short from our standards is actually on the subsidy side of
things.
So with that, we had every intention of that route continuing once we got to a point where we had
the manpower or the human resource to actually do so. So I do think we shared that information
with him in particular. And we will continue to share that mindset in our public process.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, well, if I just may follow up on that, the fact of the matter is, he made
his statement on the CBS Evening News or whatever the nightly news report was. And
unfortunately, you don't get to make a rebuttal to correct and inform the public. It's always sort of
a one-way road, you know?
And so this is an opportunity to make it clear, put it on the record, that what you said is so. So I
really appreciate that. Thank you. And that's all, Madam Chair.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. And thank you, Mr. Carter. That's a great
example. I believe Director Catlin is on the phone?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a couple of observations. And Director
Menten brought up a couple of them, particularly with the 99L. And that there might be an
opportunity to get the Conifer or Evergreen Routes, or at least one of them, to make an interim
stop at the Federal Center.
And I know that time is of the essence for those long commutes. And there might be some
pushback. But I would certainly be open to that.
With regard to the vacant land on the 116X up on Quincy, people are already pulling off and
parking there. And as development occurs, I think it would be a good idea, as Director Menten
suggests, that we take a proactive look at providing some sort of parking for those people that
board that particular route-- the very last stop before it goes to downtown.
And finally, with regard to the light rail operator shortages and the fear of cutting service, and then
it backing up to the next train up or whatever, my concern is that that's already happening by
default. And when I see every day my C Line and D Line cancel trips, that's occurring very
regularly. And I am a little bit concerned about our customers, who are without that service because
of the default cancellation.
So that's just a comment I had. And that's all I have. I'll listen to Mr. Carter's remarks. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Menten, we'll come back to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, OK. I thought you said come back to me. OK. And so Director Folska,
I just want to mention I've also had a 45-minute discussion with Mr. Smith. So he's definitely being
heard. I didn't hear the newscast, but I wanted to share that.
Meanwhile, one discussion that I did have is-- and this maybe touches on the Boulder issue just a
little bit and service in general. And I don't want to wait to other matters because you might not be
at the table right there. But I would like to have a spreadsheet that shows each one of our bus
contractors-- when their contract is up for renewal. That would include the Flex.
And that was the main thing we had talked about before. So Brian Mathews needs to get that to
you because I would like to have that discussion with the Green Mountain Flex. And maybe
changing that out-- it just all depends when are those contracts up. So that is all I'd forgotten to say
earlier. And this was the time to do it. OK?
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think you guys mentioned that in December. I could
be wrong. But system-wide, the hours, the scheduled hours-- what does this proposal represent as
far as a reduction? Of course, if you're on the permanent, it's 100% of the hours, or even the
temporary as well for a temporary basis. But just system-wide, do you have that figure?
MICHAEL FORD: It's about 4%.
KEN MIHALIK: 4%? OK. That's it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Seeing nobody up there, I guess it's my turn. I'd like to comment,
since we're putting things on the public record, that I spoke on my behalf to the gentlemen at the
table at length. And I think that they are working toward hearing all of us, hearing all of our
constituents, looking at the picture that best represents what can be done with the human resources
that we have.
Back to the statement again that it's not a budgetary issue. That it's not that we can't afford
financially to provide this service. It's that you just can't get blood from a stone in terms of human
resources. And that we are all doing the best that we can.
So I appreciate the effort that you all are making to balance what we can do with what we have.
And so I'd like to thank you both for that. Seeing nobody else in the line, we'll end this discussion
for now with no vote. And we'll move on.
I think the next item that we have on the agenda is the service availability for December 2019. And
it looks like we have a changing of the guard at the table. Thank you, Mr. Carter. And we'll
welcome Mr. Worthen to the hot seat. And I'd like to hear if you have any statements that you all
would like to make about what we have all had a chance to look at already in our packets.
FRED WORTHEN: Just a few things very quickly. Last year we added 24 operators to our
headcount. I'm sorry. I forgot to identify myself-- Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. We did
add 24 operators to our headcount.
However, with regard to our mandating, our mandating stayed very consistent. We have been
averaging right around 20,000 to 21,000 hours a month for the last five years on mandating. So
even though we've added to our headcount, we have not reduced our mandating itself.
We have reduced our lost service due to manpower. Part of that has been through the addition of
manpower. But also, part of it has been through some shifts in the way we do business, too, to try
and recover services and protect our services.
We did, though, see a reduction overall pretty significantly of our lost service hours due to
manpower-- almost 64% reduction. But again, that is at the expense of continuing to mandate very
heavily our operators to carry that load.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I think that's a valid statement. Everybody had a chance to
look at this, I'm assuming. I see one director waiting to speak. And then I will come back to the
directors on the phone. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Worthen, for the report. It was very,
very interesting. I'm looking at packet page 9. You've got two spreadsheets. One's recruitment and
retention. And one is headcount for bus operators.
That headcount for bus operators, December 2019-- is it possible to get an expanded version of
that? Something that covers each month of the year and for the past couple of years? Or is that a
big ask? If it is, let me know, and I'll ask it anyway.
FRED WORTHEN: We have the historical data. This is all done on the monthly reports, if you'd
like me to compile it.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, if you could, and if it's not that big of a deal. I'd like to see that over a few
years because I'd like to see how those vacancy ratios fluctuate and so forth. So.
FRED WORTHEN: I can definitely get you at least a couple of years. I'll see how far back I can
go. I'll get you as far back as I can.
VINCE BUZEK: --so much. That's all I have, Madam Chair. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. I know it takes a moment sometimes to find the mute button.
Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I don't have any comments. Thank you for the information.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. OK, thank you, Mr. Worthen. I think that's all we have at
the moment. I think the next update on our list is going to be rail. I see Mr. Jensen approaching the
table.
So again, I'm going to suggest that we all had this information and had time to look at it. If there
are any statements, I'm going to allow staff to make first. And then I will come back to the directors
that have questions. Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And possibly the
one thing I might point out is if we look at the chart that we provided, remembering that it's only
through November, when we look at the total numbers of mandated plus volunteered, we've got a
total number of 471 for that month.

It's the lowest number that we've had total for the last four or five months consecutive. But it's
deceiving. The reason that number is low is because we don't have other operators to mandate.
We've reached capacity.
So what the result of that is is we end up having to lose-- we drop runs because we don't have the
operators. So as we're evaluating whether or not we should drop service or mandate operators,
we're working both sides of it trying to understand that a significant issue that we're trying to
resolve is, what does it do to our employees and what our target is?
So what we're doing is hiring more. We've got more classes. I could give some numbers on that.
We've got 149, as November points out, operators. We're going to graduate 13 more operators next
week. We've started 32 operators or-- yeah, 32 operators last week. We've got another class of 40
behind that coming in February.
Really, what we would like to do is provide the optimum service for our customers we possibly
can. So we'd really like to stop dropping runs. We'd like for them to be able to rely on us. And at
the same time, we'd like to be able to stop mandating our operators.
Because if mandating is the primary reason why employees are leaving, and what we're saying on
our side, our numbers, is that the largest amount-- the largest group of people-- that are departing
from us is within one year. And they're the ones that are being mandated the most. It just goes to
make sense that these things go hand in hand. So it's important for us, I think, to understand what
the numbers mean and what our targets are and how we're working to resolve all of those things.
One other thing that I would point out, which is not good-- we're not happy with it. We are working
on it to resolve it-- is our on-time performance continues to suffer. So not only are we losing trips,
the trips we are running, more of them are late. And as we're continuing to evaluate the veracity
of the numbers that we have, we're also looking at root cause.
And a contributing factor-- and it's obviously not the other thing. It's a complex system that we're
running. And there's lots of reasons why trains might be late. But it just goes toward what was
already stated by at least one Board member.
And that is, if we miss one trip, that following trip is picking up twice the load. And so we have to
be able to compensate for that. And there's going to be inevitable delays for that.
So on the rail side, at least with this report, I want to assure you that on our side, we are hiring as
many as we can. We've expanded classes. We're doing more classes.
The retention part of it really is critical. And we are evaluating how to keep our employees. But
again, if the number-one reason why they're leaving is mandating, that's really the obstacle that
we're trying to overcome. So, thank you for indulging my-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. We appreciate your input. I see several people would like
to contribute Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks, Mr. Jensen. Thanks for your report, your
comments, and your candor. They're well-appreciated.
I'm going to ask you the same question I asked Mr. Worthen, with regard to whether you have the
ability to give a headcount on operators by month over a period of time?
DAVE JENSEN: I can do that. I don't know how far I can go, but I'll get you what I can.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate it. Thanks so much. That's all I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I have a couple of comments. Thank you for what you're doing.
One has to do with-- well, you had made a statement that the number-one reason people are leaving
is mandating. And apparently, there's some pushback on that. The culture or conditions at work
are causing some people to leave. I mean, that's what we hear. It's not just the mandating.
DAVE JENSEN: Right. So I want to be careful with the words that I'm using. I don't have the
statistics in front of me. So I want to be accurate in what I'm saying.
The numbers that I've seen show mandating as a primary cause. Maybe not the number-one,
although that that's my belief at this point. But there's a number of reasons why people leave.
So we've promoted people. There's family emergencies. They find other jobs in other cities. But
there are working conditions that we are working to identify and resolve those. So that is also a
contributing factor.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Now what was the other thing? Mandatory-- oh, yes. You know, it seems to
me that mandating is set up under the contract. That it's the new people that get stuck with the
worst of the problem.
And the end result of that seems to be that we push the new people out. They leave. And that
doesn't seem to help anybody.
And I'm wondering, is there some-- I know this is in the contract, the way the prioritization works.
But is there some discussion dealing with that anyway? And also, there's going to be a new contract
in a year or so. What's your feeling about maybe changing the way that setup works in the new
contract?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I'm looking at all the provisions in the contract,
in the language, to see are there different things that we can work with the ATU on to address. The
customer service issues, in terms of how much flexibility we can have, so we're not always abiding
by certain of the historical language. In fact, I just met with Labor Relations the other day to talk
about how do we look at this contract differently in terms of how we deliver service and what
provisions can we work through or change in cooperation and support with the ATU.

So I think there are different things that have been historical in our contractual language. And it's
time to really look through all of the language to see where we can move some things. Because at
the end of the day, we want to be will move people and move them effectively and have the
flexibility and freedom.
Right now, I think, in some cases the operators can give us a 30-minute call and not work. Can we
do something different in that area? So I'm really focused in on how we can make that a little bit
differently.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So, thank you. And a question that I have is, is that being looked at prior to
the renegotiation as well as for the renegotiation?
MICHAEL FORD: We're looking at that. We've been working on other things. We just settled on
a part-time for rail operators. We're working on part-time retirees for bus.
So we're continuing to have these conversations and making headway, too. But you asked me more
about the philosophical "look at the contract in its current form." And I think there are other
opportunities that we can explore to look at how the contract is situated and making sure that it has
provisions enough to make sure that customers are not impacted in a way that can be detrimental
because of some of our archaic rules.
I'm not saying that there is not work to be done on that. But I want to really look at it with that
lens. So we can make sure that we're focusing on the customer in the right way.
JUDY LUBOW: But to reiterate, that means it's going on now as well as-MICHAEL FORD: We're having the discussions now. Obviously, we have to get ready for
negotiations. But that doesn't preclude us from having discussions now about how we can make
adjustments, as I mentioned, with the part-timers and other things that we're working on right now.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you very much. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. One item I've saw in several emails and in newspaper
articles-- people are saying, well, gee, isn't it just as simple if you paid them more money? You
wouldn't have any trouble filling all these vacancies.
And then I was trying to think back. It seemed like before the last contract expired, we just stepped
in. And we gave about a 5% increase, which was $1.00 an hour, which wasn't negotiated, but
which we did because we were having a hard time recruiting people. And then the new contract
provided for 8% the first year and then 3% and then 3% again. Is that correct?
MICHAEL FORD: That's my understanding.

BOB BROOM: So that's about a 20% increase that we've already gone through. And of course,
we are going to be doing a new contract in the near future. So I don't think it's so much that the
Board hasn't been willing to step up and provide more money. It's just that the labor market is so
tight out there-- so incredibly tight-- that it's very difficult to recruit people. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Excuse me. I'm sure that there are several reasons why people leave
jobs. I know I've left them for various reasons.
But from what I'm hearing from the operators that I do get to speak with, the mandating exacerbates
every other problem. So they're tired. And a lot of them are tired and irritable, which makes things
that would otherwise go unnoticed very prominent.
I am wondering what types of things-- so I've spoken with people from other agencies about what
they're doing. And it sounds like a lot of what we're doing here and what we have done to bolster
and keep our head afloat-- I'm wondering if there are any things that you've noticed or that you've
identified that other agencies are doing that we cannot do? And that's either by contract or by state
legislation or anything like that.
I know a lot of agencies are run by the city or the county-- by some kind of jurisdiction. And they
might have more freedom in what they can do than what we can do. Maybe, maybe not. But I'm
wondering if, when you're speaking with your counterparts in other parts of the country, if you've
identified things that you wish you could do to get those numbers up?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. That's a large, loaded question.
The short answer is yes. But the dynamics of this community, also, and the economy here make a
large difference.
So there are things that other agencies are doing that benefit them that, in my conversations, that
prevent them-- or doesn't put them in a situation where they have to mandate nearly as much as
we do. And we're working in that direction on some of those things. And the Board members,
yourselves, have recognized some of those things in terms of flexibility of schedule and parttimers, in particular.
And so we are working on those areas. But again, their economies are different, too. And when
you look at the newspaper, as has been stated as well, there's many cities across the country that
are struggling with this very issue themselves. And we're all looking at each other.
JEFF WALKER: Right.
DAVE JENSEN: And our obviously our objective-- which I know it's all of ours-- is we're going
to find those solutions, so that others can come to us to see what we're doing, as well, to be
successful. Not that we are not ready to receive from others and reach out. It's a great suggestion.
But we're not going to wait for somebody else, either. We're going to move forward.

JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry-DAVE JENSEN: We're not going to wait for somebody else to come with a solution to that
problem. We're actively, aggressively pursuing it ourselves.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I know. And I've seen that over the years. Some of what I asked had been
discussed just before I asked it. And I'm sure that if there are things that you do identify, that we
can help with to help solve this problem.
And I know the economy is the biggest beast that's causing this. But if there are other items that
we can help-- anything with the legislature or the local governments that we can do, like
infrastructure improvements that will help speed buses along, things like that-- I'm sure you'll let
us know. That's all. It was more of a comment than a question. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. So listening to everything-- and I have
been talking to operators as well. And one of the things that I hear is that they really like the money
in the overtime. That's a really big issue.
And then I started thinking about the culture-- and when we started talking about how people feel
like they're not respected and all that stuff. But instead of using the word "mandate," what would
happen if we turned that word into "volunteer?" If you volunteer to work extra hours, you get some
kind of an incentive because you're helping everybody out.
I was thinking about that a lot in terms of just changing the dialogue a little bit, so it becomes much
more proactive, rather than sounding punitive. Because what I'm hearing from drivers is they have
now gotten used to having these huge paychecks as well, and they don't want to lose that. But I
think they have an issue with the word "mandate."
And so I thought about that for a while. And I thought, wouldn't it be great if we could just change
that word to "volunteer?" So it's just a suggestion. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford. Just a comment on your comment. The word "volunteer"
here means a little bit more than just volunteering. It gives them choices. But they're still needing
to work.
So I can appreciate the language. But I think if we're just being transparent, mandating or
volunteering means you're still having to work. You're just hopefully being able to choose a little
bit more.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I add to that? I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Let's see. I see everybody wants to talk. OK, I'm going to go down the
line first. Ladies first. Please, Ms. McKillop.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Maybe this is what Dave was going to add to. But we already do call
for volunteers first. So if you volunteer, then you get to pick the shift if you're mandated.
But we classify them in the same grouping. And they both get the additional pay per hour. So yeah,
there is a incentive, but the incentive's kind of been de-incentivized.
When we first did it, it was an incentive for those people that got told to work. Now, they're told
whether they volunteer or not. The advantage to volunteering, when you see it in our reports, is
that they get to choose the shift versus being told which shift they get when they come in.
And so we don't disagree. We struggled with this a lot during the negotiations last time on what to
call mandating. We tried to call it other things.
The union was very intent on us calling it mandating because they said that's what it is. It's forced
work. So we've struggled with that all along.
DAVE GENOVA: That's $2.00 an hour, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, it is $2.00 an hour.
DAVE GENOVA: Incentive.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if you're in overtime status, then you get overtime on top of that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. McKillop. Mr. Genova, anything else?
DAVE GENOVA: No, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so I'm going to go to the people on the phone, give them an opportunity,
and then I'm going to come back to me because I get to talk, too. So don't leave the table yet.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I had a question for Mr. Jensen. Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr.
Jensen, was there a time ever when you lost operators to the North Line?
DAVE JENSEN: I want to be accurate with my numbers. But I believe so far we've had three train
operators go to the N Line.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. All right. And I'm very bewildered by this. And I ask a lot of people
this. But why is it that Mr. Stopplecamp is so confident that he won't be short drivers when he
opens the N Line, and we struggle? Why do you think that he's so confident his people aren't going
to go or that he'll have enough?
DAVE JENSEN: I can't speak for Mr. Stopplecamp. But I can tell you that I have a confidence
level in that because we're starting fresh. And there won't be the mandating.

We're bringing people in. We're able to hire. And the objective-- we'll have to see when we get
there. So I don't want to over-promise. But the objective is not the mandate. And the operators that
have transitioned over were trying to get away from that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Mr. Stopplecamp, do you wish to speak to that? I'm sorry,
Director Folska. Mr. Stopplecamp is in the room.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: He is?
KATE WILLIAMS: If he would like to speak for a minute? How about if we see if he has
something to tell us.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So this-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I already heard what he said. That's OK. I already heard what he said
last time. It's going to be the same thing, I would expect. It's the same thing, right?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's the same question. Yeah, you don't need to repeat yourself. I'm fine with
that. No, I have another question for you, Mr. Jensen-- and Mr. Worthen, probably.
It's my understanding-- and I could be wrong, so please correct me. It's my understanding that Gina
Callahoun-- is that her name? Callahan? Calhoun?
KATE WILLIAMS: Gina Callahan? Yes. And you need to speak a little louder. We're having a
really hard time hearing you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry. Well, it was my understanding that Gina Callahan recommended to
SLT some time ago that we shorten the period of time from five years to two years for new hires
to go from the $19.50 or $20 an hour to $25. So right now, it takes a guy or a woman five years to
get the pay rate of $25 an hour. And I'm wondering if you've considered making it a shorter period
of time to reach that level for increasing retention?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that Ms. McKillop would like to speak to that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So yes, we did have that conversation as
part of the negotiations last time. And the overall result of that was that it was more important to
get the pay raises for the people that had been here a longer period of time for the union than it
was necessarily to condense that piece of it.
So in the negotiation process, that didn't come to fruition. But would be something that would need
to be negotiated. And that just didn't come out of this last process, based on other things that we
did.

And when I mention that, one of the things that we did that we were pretty insistent upon was
increasing that starting pay. And we actually increased the starting pay 10% instead of 8%. So it
was a 10% increase.
And that was something that union was not exactly favorable for. But we were able to negotiate
as part of that overall deal of compressing or not compressing the steps and those type of things.
So it was all part of that larger negotiation to be able to get where we are now. But it is something
that we discussed at the time.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it seems to me that that wasn't maybe the best outcome because people
are leaving. So maybe when we go back, and you all go back, to the table to negotiate, you
reconsider the condensing of the time to go from $20 an hour to $25 from five years to two years.
I had another question. Well, I forgot it. So I guess that's it for now. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Actually, to Heather's point, I know that salary compression
and the cascade effects can be very real. So I appreciate that. I just wanted to thank AGM-- Director
of Rail-- Dave Jensen. Sorry, I had a brain freeze. For explaining the fact that when a dropped run
occurs, it doubles up on the next trip which results in probably delayed boardings. So that was very
nice to hear that. And I appreciate that explanation. And that's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. This is Director Williams. I have a couple of
things that I'd like to add to the discussion. RTD-- we are here to provide service. That's what we
want to do.
Everybody that is an employee in this room right now is nodding their head. That is what we want
to do. Mandating is part of the union contract, as are most of the things that we are talking about
here tonight.
I was recently in a meeting with the RTD staff. And I asked them why they mandated. And they
didn't say, "Because we want to do that." They said it's because it's part of the union contract.
It's a balancing act that we are trying to provide service and trying to stay within the contract that
we are only 50% of. And I personally am tired of seeing RTD in the front of the news as being the
bad guy. I don't see the ATU 1001 on the front page of the paper as part of the problem. When, in
fact, it is a shared problem.
I'm holding up a document that is on the front page of the union website that I'm not going to read
here and now. But it's not pretty. And it's not contributing to the situation that we have with trying
to attract and retain employees.
And I think it's time that if the union is part of what happens with our operators, with our service,
with our transit agency, that they step up to the plate and take part of the heat for that. And that's
my preaching for the night. So thank you, all.

I don't see anybody else in the queue. And I think we will move on to the next action item. Thank
you, Mr. Jensen.
OK, so that's all of our updates for tonight. On a lighter note, I'll open it up to other matters, if
anybody has something that they would like to bring. And I see Director Lubow is spot-on.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. I'm just addressing the issue of the email from Doug
Howey, who raised a concern about folks in wheelchairs not being able to get Paratransit Access
Ride confirmed. And it's my understanding there's going to be a GMR response, which I think is
great.
But the issue that I have is that this seems to me important enough that it might have risen to the
level of a policy decision that the Board should be involved with. It seems like it to me. And so
I'm wondering if we have a GMR that goes out.
And then it comes to the Board. And we come up with a different way of handling it. It seems
awkward. So I really think this is an important enough issue for the Board to weigh in. And I'm
trying to figure out a way to do that appropriately, given that we're going to have a GMR very
quickly.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. I know a little bit about this one issue. And I think it had
to do with electric wheelchairs. And in my understanding, there was no provision to try to stop
electric wheelchairs from having access or not being taken away.
I know that I've been working with Zamy and with Paul to talk about this issue. And I think I also
got this from Director Folska as well. And I've been assured that that's not going to be an issue. I
think there were some other issues around it. I think there was a response that just went out tonight,
if I'm not mistaken, around this issue.
JUDY LUBOW: Meaning that the Board won't need to get involved because it's really being
addressed?
MICHAEL FORD: --being worked on, but I have to double-check. I saw an email that was written
by Zamy, I think, addressing this issue tonight. But I haven't looked at all the details.
All I can say is I have noted the issue. I've had some discussions. I think there is maybe a
misunderstanding. And I'd like to get back and clarify that. But that's my understanding at this
point.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
MICHAEL FORD: It had to do specifically about the electric wheelchairs and their use and some
provision about us not being able to have people be eligible that have electric wheelchairs, is my
understanding. But I'll do some more checking on that.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So I'm just raising a red flag that I think this is an important issue. I
hope it's just a misunderstanding, and we can resolve it quickly. But if not, I'd like to weigh in on
it. So I'm just stating that.
MICHAEL FORD: There might be a little bit more clarification that Paul could render as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: If I may address Director Lubow about-KATE WILLIAMS: I think we have a number of people here that would like to speak to this issue
and be involved. So we're going to try one-- and hang in. I'll get back to you, Director Folska, for
sure. I promise.
I'm going to let Mr. Hamilton speak for a minute, and then Director Lewis would like to speak.
Director Folska would like to speak. I would like to speak-- those of us who have been involved
with this situation ongoing. So have at it, Mr. Hamilton.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you. Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. As
Michael had already indicated, Zamy and my department has been working on researching for her
this particular complaint that came in, as you said, from Doug Howey. There does seem to be a
misunderstanding in how we do functional assessments at Easterseals. And the assertion from his
complaint is that we treat people differently based on their mobility device-- in this case, an electric
wheelchair.
The electric wheelchair and any other mobility device are aside from their actual ability to use
fixed route. Paratransit Services is nothing more than an extension of our fixed-route system. And
we're here, essentially, to provide services for anybody based on their functional assessment at
Easterseals to provide them transportation when they cannot use fixed route.
And as a result, just as a summary-- I mean, there's a lot more detail in this. But as a result of our
research, we determined that-- we went back and audited all of our records for electric wheelchairs,
all the way back to 2017, at the beginning of 2017. We had approximately 600 customers that had
come into Easterseals that were using electric wheelchairs during that time.
Over 40% of them received unconditional eligibility. A little over 50% then received conditional
eligibility of one form or another. His assertion is that we treat people based on the use of a mobility
device.
And in this case, that would presume that we are making a prejudice based on the fact that they
have an electric wheelchair. That they would not be able to gain access to our system, one. And if
they did, that they would always be granted conditional eligibility because they're using an electric
wheelchair.

We're not saying that that's the case. And in fact, the system seems to be working. The system at
Easterseals is designed to do a functional assessment based on somebody's ability to use or access
fixed route. And so far, what we're seeing is that's exactly the case.
JUDY LUBOW: I think it would be useful to also hear what he has to say in rebuttal. But thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Hamilton. Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, sorry about that. Yes, it's hard to find the mute button. Madam Chair,
Mr. Ford, Mr. Hamilton, and Zamy-- everybody there-- I would like to see the current policy for
Paratransit that the Board has adopted, whenever that last was. I think we could all use a refresher
on what that policy is, among other things than what's going on here.
My understanding from Mr. Howey is that it isn't the device per se, but that you all are creating
with Easterseals new criteria for determining eligibility. Is that so?
PAUL HAMILTON: It is not.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So if I have an electric chair instead of a manual chair, and I qualify
for Paratransit through the Easterseals' rigorous-- which I've gone through and qualified for, by the
way. Then it has nothing to do with the device? Is that correct?
PAUL HAMILTON: That is a fair assertion. That's correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so what do we know about responses from Mr. Newberg to Mr.
Howey, which is in the emails? So I think the gist of it is that it's up to Mr. Howey and other
Paratransit users to worry about their sidewalks, curb cuts, and so forth. And it's their responsibility
to make the city do that. Do you have a response to that?
PAUL HAMILTON: I not sure I followed that question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, have you seen the email that Mr. Howey sent to the Board of
Directors?
PAUL HAMILTON: I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Which one?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And in that email, he comes along and says that Mr. Newberg has told
someone-- I guess Mr. Howey. And I can't refer to the email because I cannot read it. But there's
a sense that-- and maybe someone else has it handy.
But that it's incumbent upon the person with a disability using Paratransit to go after the city to
make the sidewalks and curb cuts in the city accessible, and not RTD's problem. But that the chair

should be able to get you to a fixed route. I mean, there was an assertion to that. That's my sense
of it. Does that sound about right?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, I think that we can take this conversation offline. There is a
GM request going on. Mr. Howey has sent a number of emails. There's not just one email for Mr.
Howey.
That's what he does. He's a disability advocate. And he does that well. And we respect him for the
work that he does.
But I don't think that we want to spend this committee meeting discussing that particular complaint.
Are you OK with that?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I'm not. But I'll respect your request for the sake of time. But make it
known to the record, I think that we all need to review the policy we have for Paratransit, how we
deliver the services to that most vulnerable population in our community.
And frankly, the service really is so poor. And there's just got to be a better way to deliver this
service. And we have nowhere near found it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. We appreciate that. OK, other matters? Do I
have anyone else that has another matter? Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I just want to state that I am concerned by the assertions in this letter. And I think
it would be important to hear both sides because there are allegations here that people in a
wheelchair are being discriminated against. And that if they can't get the Paratransit Service, well,
it's up to them to work on making sure the sidewalks and everything else are acceptable enough so
that they can get the fixed route. And that's not the type of thing that we want to go around. And I
just think it needs to be addressed with respect for the allegations that he's making.
MICHAEL FORD: So, I'm Michael Ford, COO. We'll do a complete review and make sure that
we are understanding all of the issues and concerns that have been registered, and provide a
complete and comprehensive response.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. I'd like to point out that I, in the daytime, do this work
all the time. That I work with an organization that is designed to help people with disabilities with
transportation. And that I have a lot of outlook and maybe some insight into how our transportation
network works with people with disabilities.
And I don't think that it's terrible in any way. I think that we work very hard and that we go above
and beyond what we are, as an agency, mandated to do by the ADA and that that needs to be
recognized.

I think there are people in this room who are disability advocates that would second, not that we
are infallible, not that they are not people who are occasionally unhappy, but as a whole, RTD has
a reputation for accessibility. We have worked very hard to make our vehicles accessible. Our
Paratransit Service is above and beyond what is required.
And I, again, commend Mr. Howey for his work as an advocate. But I'd like to see us pursue this
with him and with the people that do this in our agency. So, thank you all for your discussion on
this. And I'm going to bring it to an end.
Anybody else? Other matters? OK. I think that that will about bring us to an end, here. Our next
meeting of this committee will be February 11, same time, same place. And I'm going to call a few
minutes' break before we head to the financial meeting. Thank you, all.
AUDIENCE: Thank you for saying that.

